Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 539 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we come today to 1 Chronicles 14, really picking up right where we left off yesterday. Pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for loving us and for being faithful to us. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts this morning as we look at it together. May your Holy Spirit guide us and may you be glorified in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. And Hiram, King of Tyre, sent messengers to David and cedar trees, also masons and carpenters, to build a house for him. And David knew that the Lord had established him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom was was highly exalted for the sake of his people Israel. And David took more wives in Jerusalem, and David fathered more sons and daughters. These are the names of the children born to him in Jerusalem. Shemua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, Ibhor, Elishua, Eliphat, Noga, Nepheg, Jafia, Elishamah, Biliada, and Eleflet. Eliphilet. When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to search for David. But David heard of it, and went out against them. Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the valley of Rephaim, and David inquired of God, Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will you give them into my hand? And the Lord said to him, Go up, and I will give them into your hand. And he went up to Baal Perazim, and David struck them down there. And David said, God has broken through my enemies by my hand like a bursting flood. Therefore the name of that place is called Baal Perazim. And they left their gods there. And David gave command. And they were burned. And the Philistines again, yet again, made a raid in the valley. And when David inquired of God, God said to him, You shall not go up after them. Go around, and come against them opposite the balsam trees. And when you hear the sound of marching in the top And David did as God commanded him, and they struck down the Philistine army from Gibeon, To Gizer. And the fame of David went out into all the lands, and the Lord brought the fear of him upon all nations. Well that's 1 Chronicles chapter 14 in God's Word. Again, familiar material here from our time in 2 Samuel. So we have this in between the two arc attempts, right? In in Samuel, this this material is put first and then the first arch attempt and immediately a second arc attempt. But here is the first arch attempt. And then this material and then the second arch attempt. And again, we talked about the reasons for that yesterday. If you missed that, go back and uh listen to yesterday's Brief devotional and you'll hear that explanation. But here we have God blessing David with alliances internationally. Hiram, King of Tyre. It becomes a very important ally to David and to Solomon in the construction first of David's house and then of the temple itself and then of Solomon's even larger palace. And so he has a a a Of course, these were not all born in these first couple of years. They're born over an extended period of time, like we know that Solomon was board much later after the incident with Bathsheba and the Uriah the Hittite. And then we get this material here, this accounting of the defeat of the Philistines and how God granted David victory. Victory over the Philistines. The first battle is pretty straightforward. Philistines hear, hey, David's been anointed king over all Israel. Now the Philistines know very well who David is, and they don't like David at all. They had a very bad history with David. Sort of a confusing history because David was a great warrior against them. Saul killed his thousands, David his thousands. tens of thousands. David was the most successful warrior in all of Israel against the Philistines, but then there was that period of time when David was among the Philistines. And he even offered service to the Philistines in a war against Israel. But now he's the king of Israel. And so what should they think? Well, one thing they know is that David is a great warrior, and now he's king. And so they have to unite. They have to unite together and go up against him. And so it's the Philistines, all the Philistines, who go out to search out David. And they make a raid looking for him. And David inquires of God, and God says, Go, I'll give them into your hand. And there's a great breaking through of the enemy. This veil parasim is what this uh area becomes called because it's a place where God has a great breaking through against But then he says, in verse 11, God has broken through my enemies by my hand like a bursting flood. And that's fine. I don't think there's anything necessarily sinful in what David is saying there, but God is now going to do something. so that it will be even more clear that it's not so much David as it is the Lord who is giving them the victory. And so the Philistines make another raid. David says, hey, can we do this again? And God says, no, you're not going to do it again. You're not going to go up after them. You're going to go around. And you're going to come opposite them uh uh against them opposite the balsam trees. Very unusual strategy, I think. I don't think it's what David would have thought of. Uh It doesn't seem to make you know you're a little bit vulnerable if you're going around an enemy. Uh you're you know stretched out uh when you do that kind of maneuver, so it's risky. But then God says, when you hear the sound of marching in the The tops of the balsam trees, then go out to battle, for the Lord has gone out before you to strike down the army of the Philistines. So God sent his people through the balsam trees Not just because it would have been a surprising military tactic, although I think it was, not just so they would have the cover of trees, which they did, but so that they would hear the sound of marching. And the tops of the balsam trees, they would remember they are not alone in this fight. The Lord fights for them, and the Lord sends out his angelic host to oppose the enemy and to bring truth. Victory. And so David did as God commanded him, and they struck down the Philistine army from Gibeon to Geezer, and the fame of David went out into all the lands, and the Lord brought the fear of him upon all. nations and the nations are gonna s hold off attacking Israel. Um Israel's gonna continue to have battles during David's time, but for the most part there's not gonna be these kinds of raids into Israel. that characterized really Saul's reign and the entire period of the judges, if you remember that, that right before Saul was the period of the Judges, and throughout that entire period Israel had to deal with invader after invader after invader raiding their lands. And that's no longer going to be the case throughout David and Solomon's reigns. What do we learn from this? Well we learn of course that blessing comes from the Lord. It is right to obey the Lord. It is right for us to follow the Lord. It is right to honor the Lord, for He is to be honored. Blessing comes from the Lord, not from us being smart enough. Strong enough, talented enough, cunning and wise and clever enough, lucky enough, success for God's kingdom purposes comes by God's. Now some people want to make a one-to-one correspondence and say, if you obey God, therefore he will bring you great material success. That's an improper lesson to learn from first Chronicles fourteen. It would be improper to say, you see, David was a man after God's own heart, and he honored the Lord rightly, so the Lord gave him a big family and great victory over his enemies. Well, actually the chapter right before this, David did not honor the Lord rightly because he didn't obey God in bringing up the ark the way he's supposed to. He will obey the Lord in the next chapter that we'll get to in a couple of days. But This is not coming on the heels of something that David did that was oh so grand and wonderfully obedient. It was kind of half-baked, right? It was not not exactly the best thought-out plan. Or the most obedient action of David. But God blesses and God protects and God gives victory for the glory of God. And we as God's people need to know That the Lord is with us, that the Lord is for us, that we are his, and that he is our God. And we need to trust him. Whether it looks like things are disastrous, like when Uzzah was struck dead by God, or when it looks like things are glorious, like the Victories over the Philistines. No matter the highs or the lows, the victories, the defeats, we need to consistently remember that it is God who orders all things by His sovereign will. That he is to be trusted and that he is the one that gives us the victory in his timing and for his purposes and ultimately for his glory in our life. So while David's fame would spread throughout all the nations, David would be the great psalm singer of Israel and would lead Israel in giving all the praise and all the glory to God because that's where Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word and for your faithfulness. Thank you that you are the sovereign one who gives according to your will and for your glory. Help us to trust you we pray in Jesus' name amen well that's first chronicles chapter 14 thanks for joining me have a blessed day in the Lord