Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forestow Presbyterian Church. It's day 551 on vacation in the North Georgia Mountains here at Lake Blue Ridge. So we're going to be taking a look at 1 Chronicles 22 today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your faithful love to us. Thank you for another time to spend in your word. Thank you for the beauty of your creation that's all around me right now. that testifies to your love and to your power. Pray, Father, that you would be with us today and help us to think clearly about your word. And be guided by your Spirit and drawn closer to your Son. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. First Chronicles, chapter 22. Then David said, here shall be the house of the Lord God, and here the altar of burnt offering for Israel. David commanded to gather together the resident aliens who were in the land of Israel, and he set stone-cutters to prepare dressed stones for the building of the house of God. David also provided great quantities of iron for nails, for the doors, of the gates, and for the clamps, as well as bronze in quantities beyond weighing. and cedar timbers without number. For the Sidonians and Tyrians brought great quantities of cedar to David. For David said, Solomon my son is young. and inexperienced, and the house that is to be built for the Lord must be exceedingly magnificent, of fame and glory throughout all lands. I will therefore make preparation for it. So David provided materials in great quantity before his death. Then he called for Solomon his son and charged him to build a house for the Lord, the God of Israel. David said to Solomon, My son, I had it in my heart to build a house to the name of the Lord my God. But the word of the Lord came to me, saying, You have shed much blood, and have waged great wars. You shall not build a house to my name, because you have shed so much blood before me on earth. Behold, a son shall be born to you, who shall be a man of rest. I will give him rest from all his surrounding enemies, for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quiet to Israel in his days. He shall build a house for my name. He shall be my son, and I will be his father, and I will establish his royal throne in Israel forever. Now, my son, the Lord be with you, so that you may succeed in building the house of the Lord your God As he has spoken concerning you. Only may the Lord grant you discretion and understanding that when he gives you charge over Israel, you may keep the law of the Lord your God. Then you will prosper if you are careful to observe the statutes and the rules that the Lord commanded Moses for Israel. Be strong and courageous. Fear not. Do not be dismayed. With great pains I have provided for the house of the Lord one hundred thousand talents of gold, a million talents of silver, and bronze and iron beyond weighing, for there is So much of it, timber and stone too I have provided. To these you must add. You have an abundance of workmen. Stone cutters, masons, carpenters, and all kinds of craftsmen without number, skilled in working, gold, silver, bronze, and iron, arise and work. The Lord be with you. David also commanded all the leaders of Israel to help Solomon his sons, saying, Is not the Lord your God with you? And has he not given you peace on every side? For he has delivered the inhabitants of the land into my hand, and the land is subdued before the Lord and his people. Now, set your mind and heart to seek the Lord your God. Arise and build the sanctuary of the Lord God. So that the ark of the covenant of the Lord and the holy vessels of God may be brought into a house built for the name of the Lord. That's first Chronicles 22. So this is material that we don't have in the Chronic in 2 Samuel or in Kings. And there's a difference here because the chronicler, well, Mike pointed out to us that he s skips over, he omits Uh David's affair with Bathsheba and the killing of Uriah and that repentance, which everyone would have already been very familiar with that story, so it's not like he's hiding something from the people. That story was well known within Israel. But the focus of the chroniclers account here is really on David as a man after God's own heart who was committed. to the building of the temple. Because again, this book is written for those who are returning from exile. Second Chronicles, when we get there, it ends with with the note of return from exile to the land. And one of the things that the people returning to the land needed to pursue as a high priority was rebuilding the temple of the Lord. And so there's an extended section here of David preparing for and providing for the construction of the temple. This is also, you know, the changing of the guard, the handing over of covenant leadership from David to Solomon. We you know, this is this is a long process of David preparing And and we see David making these kinds of preparations, but it stands out to me that the charge that he gives to Solomon is very similar to the charge that Moses gives to Joshua. See in verse 13 we even have a reference to Moses, which I think is intended to call to mind that time period. So look at verse 13. Then you will prosper if you are careful to observe the statutes and the rules. that the Lord commanded Moses for Israel. Be strong and courageous, fear not, do not be dismayed. That is strongly parallel to the way that Moses charged Joshua and then the way that the Lord himself charged Joshua at the end of Deuteronomy and the beginning of the book of Joshua. Uh let's go ahead and look at Joshua chapter one so that we can see uh the strong parallel, especially I'm thinking of of uh verse seven and eight. Only be strong and very courageous, being careful to do according to all the law that Moses my servant commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left, then you may have good success wherever you go. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night. so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success. Have I not commanded you, be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened and do not be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. So that charge from the Lord to Joshua, which at the end of Deuteronomy, similar charge comes first from Moses to Joshua. Here we have a repeat of that from David to Solomon. Again, verse 13, very similar language. Then you will prosper if you are careful to observe the statutes and rules that the Lord commanded Moses for Israel. Be strong and courageous, fear not, do not be dismayed. And then David goes into an accounting of how well he has provided for Solomon in in so much silver, so much gold, so much bronze and iron, as well as the laborers who are s who are who are going to do the hard work and then the skilled craftsmen who are going to do the fine work. And he says, arise and work, the Lord be with you. Of course, we know that David did arise, Solomon, sorry, Solomon did arise and did do the work, and the Lord was with him. And that temple was finished, which of course everyone would know about when they hear this, because this is the chronicler writing hundreds of years later. And it's a call to that generation. to be faithful in the same way. And that's really the very simple application point that I feel led to draw to us. And that is this charge that that Moses and the Lord gave Joshua. This charge that David gave Solomon is a charge that can be given directly to us today as well. The Lord is with us. Is there opposition in the world to his gospel? Absolutely. Are there challenges and obstacles to following Jesus faithfully in this world? Without a doubt. But if the Lord is with us, if his word is true and trustworthy, he has given us everything we need to be his church and to be his holy people. And so he's calling us, be strong and courageous. Fear not. Do not be dismayed. The Lord be with you. You have the resources. You have the Word of God. You have the gospel of Jesus Christ. You have the people of God. Walk In courageous obedience before the Lord. Where did Solomon get off track? Solomon got off track because he took his eyes off of the Lord. started relying on his wisdom that God had given him to make alliances, political alliances, on an earthly level. So he takes his eyes off of the Lord with him. relies on the wisdom God gave him to make political alliances in this world, and as he does so he ends up marrying many foreign wives And when he brings them in, of course, he makes accommodation for them because if you're going to make alliances with the world, you're going to have to make accommodations for the world. So we need to hear this call here in 1 Chronicles 22 because the church is the temple of the living God. And we are each living stones built into that temple, joined to Christ Jesus, the chief cornerstone, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. And so our call is a very simple and clear one. Be strong and courageous. Do not be dismayed. Look to the Word of God. Be obedient to the Word of God and trust in the presence of God and the provision of God. Because God has given us everything we need. If we follow his word, if we do the work, he will bless it for his glory. Father, we thank you so much for your word, which is so true and so helpful. Father, we pray that you would indeed be with us. And that you would help us to be strong and courageous. It is easy to be afraid. It is easy to give in to fear. It is easy to make compromises with the world. That's what is natural to our human condition, to be timid, to be anxious, to be afraid. to to seek some compromise way that might be easier. But you're calling us to the difficult way. Take up our cross daily and follow Jesus. proclaim the gospel to a world that doesn't want to hear it and in fact thinks it's a kind of hate speech But Father, we know that the gospel is the good news that the world needs even though it doesn't want it, and that we need to proclaim it, and that we need to follow Jesus. By walking according to the Word of God every day. So would you give us the grace to do that? Help us not to hold back in fear. Or make excuses and compromise. We pray these things, Heavenly Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that's 1 Chronicles 22. Tomorrow we're going to go back to Hebrews for Hebrews chapter 3. I hope you can join me for that. And as always, I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.