Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We come to day 538 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. And we're in First Chronicles chapter thirteen. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you, Father, that you give us such rich uh things in your word, truth and history and and instruction and patterns to follow. We thank you that in places in your word you give us multiple perspectives on the same same event in history such as we find in Samuel King's Chronicles and in the Gospels and other places. We we thank you that you give us these multiple perspectives so that we can have a fuller understanding of the truth and draw different applications to our lives and understanding of your kingdom. We pray that you would be our teacher today in 1 Chronicles 13, that you would write it on our hearts and that you would lead us to follow Jesus more closely for the time we spend in your word today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, First Chronicles chapter 13, another account of David bringing up the Ark of God to Carrie from Kyrias to Europe. To Israel. We get Uzzah again and the Ark. So let's read now God's word. David consulted with the commanders of thousands. and of hundreds with every leader. And David said to all the assembly of Israel, If it seems good to you, and from the Lord our God, let us send abroad to our brothers, who remain in all the lands of Israel, as well as to the priests. and Levites in the cities that have pasture lands, that they may be gathered to us. Then let us bring again the ark of our God to us. For we did not seek it in the days of Saul. And all the assembly agreed to do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people. So David assembled all Israel from the Nile of Egypt to Lebohamath to bring the ark of God from Kiriath Jirim. And David and all Israel went up to Bala, that is, to Kiriath Jiram, that belongs to Judah, to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the Lord, who sits enthroned above the cherubim. And they carried the ark of God on a new cart from the house of Abinadab and Uzzah and Ahio were driving the cart. And David and all Israel were celebrating before God with all their might, with song and lyres, and harps and tambourines and cymbals and trumpets. And when they came to the threshing floor of Khaidon, Uzzah put out his hand to take hold of the ark, for the oxen stumbled, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah And he struck him down because he put out his hand to the ark, and he died there before God. And David was angry. Because the Lord had broken out against Uzzah, and that place is called Peres Uzzah to this day. And David was afraid of God that Day, and he said, How can I bring the ark of God home to me? So David did not take the ark home into the city of David But took it aside to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite, and the ark of God remained with the household of Obed-Edom in his house three months. And the Lord blessed the household of Obed-Edom. and all that he had. So we have again another account of uh of bringing up the Ark of God from uh Kiriath Jerum into Jerusalem. We had this account already in 2 Samuel when we were there. 2 Samuel 5 to 6. And so what's interesting here is in in Chronicles we get David wanting to get the ark. Even before we're told about the establishment of his home and family in Jerusalem and his defeat So in 2 Samuel we have sort of things being buttoned up and tied up a little bit more with peace with the Philistines and the establishment of the Philistines. This household and then the ark being brought up. But here, again, the focus in Chronicles is on how the unity of Israel as a whole is really found in the worship, uh, in the worship of God. particularly in Jerusalem. And so you see this theme of unity as well because it's all of Israel. The whole assembly of Israel, the commanders, the thousands, hundreds, every leader, right? And he asks them, is it important for us? Don't you think it's important for us? to get the priests and the Levites from all the different cities where they've been given pasture lands and to get together and to bring the ark of God to us so that we can worship God together as one nation. That's what David's presenting to them. And they all said yes. So we get this consultation is is really important. So we get this at the beginning of David's reign as king. Right here early on. He wants the ark. And then at the end of David's reign, we have a more detailed account of his preparation for the building of the temple, of how much he really invested and planned. planned uh for the building of the temple even though he himself was not able um to to build the ark. Uh uh and again, like I said, we have more of an idea of David consulting with all the leaders rather than just making a decision. It's a concern for national unity and of the participation of the people. So in Samuel it's more David. Here it's not just David, but also Also the commanders of thousands and hundreds and every leader, and indeed, in verse four, the eyes of all the people. So national unity, the chroniclers telling us, doesn't just come from one human being who is ruling by his will. It comes from the worship of God being central to the life of the people and the people being unified in their commitment to making the worship of God. So they're going to do it. It gets all of Israel together for this great celebration, and they go up to Bala, that is to Kiriath Jiram. They go to the house of Abinadab where this the ark has been kept, and then Uzzah and Ahio are driving the cart, and all seems well. David and all Israel, verse eight, celebrating before God with all their might, with song and lyres and harps and tambourines, cymbals and trumpets, great big party, until until Uzzah decides he needs to help God. God out. Sometimes we just don't really trust God. We don't really believe that He's the sovereign one. We also don't really believe that He's holy. And this is what's reflected in Uzzah's actions. Uzzah's actions show He doesn't really think that God is in control and can can stabilize the ark. Uh he sees the oxen stumble. He doesn't see the ark actually tipping over. Sometimes we picture the But sometimes we picture this very dramatically like the ark is about to hit the dirt and Uzza comes out and saves the day. No. Just the oxen stumbled. And Uzzah's first reaction was, Oh, I better grab the ark. I need to help God. I need to protect God here. Uh God doesn't need our help. God's not interested in us putting our hands in where he is sovereign and where he is holy. You see the ark was should have been carried on poles. It shouldn't have even been on a box back of an ox cart, so that if oxen stumble that would be threatened. If they were being obedient to the word of God, it would have been carried on poles by Levites, and the Lord would allow them you know, to be blessed and and their obedience will be good. And that's the way it's going to be handled when the ark actually does successfully come. But for now this is uh you know an unsuccessful attempt, a failed attempt. It's a failed attempt because they weren't they they were unified as a nation, that's good, right? They were under their God-appointed leader, that's good. Uh the leaders were all in in agreement to make the worship of God central to the nation of God. That's all good. But they did not follow God's word, which was bad, and they thought they could intervene and help God out. out and that's bad, and they did not have a high regard for the holiness of God, and that's bad. So worship of God is absolutely central for the life of the people of God. There needs to be nothing in our lives that's a higher priority than the worship of God. But the worship of God must be according to the Word of God, and it must not be seen as we're helping God out. You know, you even see churches go so far as giving away flat screen TVs and you know computer game consoles, you know, as door prizes to try to get That's kind of in my mind the modern day equivalent of what's happening here is they're doing things according to human thinking. Oh let's put it on a new ox cart. What a great place to ride. And oh we better help out here, it's gonna stumble and fall into the dirt. Human wisdom is not what should frame the worship of God, but the word of God and the sovereignty of God and the holiness of God. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your truth and for your your character. You are the sovereign holy God, and we thank you for that. We pray that you You would help us to be mindful of who you are, what you've commanded us to do, that we would be obedient to your word, that we would be responsive to your will, that we would honor you with our hearts and with our lives. And we pray this In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is 1 Chronicles 13. Tomorrow, right on to chapter 14. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.