Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 544 We are in 1 Chronicles chapter 17 where the Lord makes his covenant with David. This is a parallel chapter to 2 Samuel 7. One of the great turning points in biblical redemptive history as we have the covenant of David as the next unfolding chapter in the covenant of grace. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and for the unfolding truth of your word as we're able to walk through it together as your children. We pray That you would speak to us through 2 Chronicles 17 today, that you would write its truth in our hearts, and that you would draw us closer to Jesus through it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. 1 Chronicles chapter 17. Now when David lived in his house David said to Nathan the prophet, Behold, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of the Lord is under a tent. And Nathan said to David, Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you But that same night the word of the Lord came to Nathan, go, and tell my servant David, thus says the Lord. It is not you who will build me a house to dwell in, for I have not lived in a house since the day I brought up Israel to this day But I have gone from tent to tent and from dwelling to dwelling. In all places where I have moved with all Israel, did I speak a word with any of the judges of Israel whom I commanded to shepherd my people, saying Why have you not built me a house of cedar? Now therefore, thus shall you say to my servant David, Thus says the Lord. I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be prince over my people Israel And I have been with you wherever you have gone, and have cut off all your enemies from before you, and I will make for you a name. like the name of the great ones of the earth, and I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them that they may dwell in their own place and be disturbed no more. And violent men shall waste them no more as formerly. For the time, from the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel, and I will subdue all your enemies. Moreover, I declare to you that the Lord will build you a house When your days are fulfilled to walk with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, one of your own sons, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for me, and I will establish his throne forever. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. I will not take my steadfast love from him as I took it from him who was before you, but I will confirm him in my house and in my kingdom forever. and his throne shall be established forever. In accordance with all these words and in accordance with all this vision, Nathan spoke to David. Then King David went in and sat before the Lord and said, Who am I, O Lord God? And what is my house that you have brought me thus far? And this was a small thing in your eyes, O God. You have also spoken of your servant's house for a great while to come, and have shown me future generations, O Lord God. And what more can David say to you? You for honoring your servant, for you know your servant. For your servant's sake, O Lord, and according to your own heart you have done all this greatness in making known all these things. There is none like you, O Lord, and there is no God beside you, according to all that we have heard with our ears And who is like your people Israel, the one nation on earth whom God went to redeem to be his people making for yourself a name for great and awesome things in driving out nations before your people whom you redeemed from Egypt. And you made your people Israel to be your people forever. And you, O Lord, became their God. And now, O Lord, Let the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and concerning his house be established forever, and do as you have spoken. And your name will be established and magnified forever, saying, The Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, is Israel's God. And the house of your servant David will be established before you For you, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build a house for him. Therefore, your servant has found courage to pray before you And now, O Lord, you are God, and you have promised this good thing to your servant. Now that you have been pleased to bless this house, the house of your servant. That it may continue forever before you, for it is you, O Lord, who have blessed, and it is blessed forever That is 1 Chronicles 17, the second recording of the covenant with David after 2 Samuel 7, like I said earlier. And this one is beautiful. They're both wonderful, of course, but we have this extended prayer from David in response to this covenant that the Lord has made with him. David has an idea. I mean he's he's brought the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord up. They had the failure the first time with the ox cart, which is not the proper way to carry it, and Uzzah, who didn't have the proper uh respect for God's holiness or the proper understanding of of the Lord. And that didn't go well, but then they did it again and it went well, and then they had a wonderful time of worship where they were obedient to God and they responded in praise, and we had a wonderful chapter that Mike led us through a couple days ago in 1 Chronicles 16, that wonderful uh psalm that we have. But here, we now have David after that realizing, okay, the ark of the Lord is up in Jerusalem. It's it's in a tent. And I'm living in a house of cedar. A house of cedar is a a palatial house. There were not very many trees in Israel. There still are not today very many trees in Israel that you can build large buildings out of. of and so things in Israel back then and uh even today are largely made out of earth or stone. Today it's a lot of concrete buildings. But back then a lot of stone. You would just dig up stone. There was a land full of stones. And so they would build from stones. But if you had a house of cedar the Cedars of Lebanon, strong and tall and rot resistant and and, you know, just more costly and more fine, then that was like That's your palace, right? Or your temple. That's the important buildings of the land. And so David's saying, I dwell in a house of Cedar, but the ark of the covenant of the Lord is under a tent. He says, That's not right. That's not right. And David has it in his heart with good intentions, but he's thinking, let me do God a favor. Let me do something for the Lord, to take care of the Lord And you see, in that desire, there's good intentions, but really a wrong understanding of how God's relationship with his people fundamentally works. It's actually not different from Uzza. Uzzah thought, well, let me give the Lord a hand. Let me help God out and keep this ark from falling to the ground. God doesn't need our help. God's not looking for us to give him things. God is not one who is needy like the pagan gods of the nations who are constantly demanding sacrifices because they're empty and and and and they're needy, right? Because they're figments of man's imagination or demonic in nature. And so Of course they're that way, but the Lord is not that way. The Lord is the one true God, the maker of heaven and earth, and the creator and sustainer of all things, and the giver of every good and perfect gift, and he doesn't need anything from us. He doesn't need us to give him anything. And so he first of all starts off through Nathan by rebuking David and thinking, you know, who told you that I need to live in a house? Right? Who told you that I am in need, that I'm some homeless God who who is poor off and that you better do something nice for me? Where did you get that idea? Did I say that to any of my servants in any of the hundreds of years since I brought you out of Egypt? This is a rebuke To rebuke from God to David for thinking that God needed something from David, that David could do something to make God better off. That's nonsense thinking. There's nothing that we can possibly do that will make God better off. We can't give God anything. Everything we have is a gift from Him. So after rebuking David, God then says something very profound and wonderful. He says, I will subdue all your enemies. Moreover, I declare to you that the Lord will build you a house. It's in verse 10. And in verse 11 he says, When your days are fulfilled to walk with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, one of your own sons. and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for me, and I will establish his throne forever. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. I will not take my steadfast love from him as I took it from him who was before you, but I will confirm him in my house and in my kingdom forever, and his throne shall be established for ever. Now what's interesting about looking at this in 1 Chronicles versus 2 Samuel is that by the time this is being written down in 1 Chronicles, and by the time the people are reading it in 1 Chronicles, They know for sure that Solomon was not the answer to that prayer. Some Bible scholars still want to say, oh, when God made this covenant promise to David, Solomon was the son that he said was going to build the house for the Lord and whose throne would be established forever. But then somehow Solomon lost that right because he He went astray from the Lord, which he did. And in a limited human temporal context, we can see a logic to that, right? David doesn't build the temple, Solomon builds the temple. And Solomon builds the temple, but then Solomon's heart goes astray, and so God removes the ten twelfths of the kingdom from his son, Rehoboam, as a punishment for Solomon's unfaithfulness. Well that alone, especially in the language here in 1 Chronicles 17, that should let us know that Solomon is not the one that God is foretelling here. Solomon is not the promised son of David who will be as the son of God and who will have a kingdom that is established forever. Right? Forever, forever, forever. We get it three times in these short number of verses. There's only one. Son of David according to the flesh, son of David according to human lineage, but the son of God by nature, who sits on his throne forever, and who is Building the house of the Lord. He shall build a house for me. What did Jesus Jesus say when Peter first confessed his faith? You are the Christ, the Son of the living God, Jesus said, I tell you Blessed are you, Peter, son of Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father, my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church. Jesus said, I will build my church. I will build the house of the Lord. And we are that house. Hebrews tells us we're going to get ready to get into Hebrews in just a couple of days. And Hebrews chapter 2, I think it is, tells us we are that house. Right? And Christ is the Son over that house. He's the Son over the house, the one who builds the house forever, and the one who is king forever. So this was always pointing to Jesus. It was only ever true in a partial and temporary sense of Solomon. But the temple that Solomon built was never the house of the Lord. It never was. It was a picture of the house of the Lord. It was a dim earthly reflection of the house of the Lord Some people think that we in Reformed circles have this sort of replacement theology that God chose Israel. and the temple, but then when they failed, God replaced Israel and the temple with the church. And that's not really what we believe. What we believe is that Jesus And the church have always been God's plan from the beginning From the time when he called Abraham in Genesis and said, Through you all the nations of the earth will be blessed, and then through your s seed, through your offspring, shall all nations of the earth be blessed. And that was always about Jesus. And it was the blessing of of God comes to the nations through the church, the house of God, the city of God, the kingdom of God on earth. That so there's not replacement, there's rather shadow and substance. There's uh promise and fulfillment. There's there's picture and reality. And that's what's going on here. Solomon will build a temple But it will never be the house of the Lord in the true sense, just as the sacrifices offered at that temple will never be the sacrifices that satisfy divine justice Rather, the sacrifices point to the greater sacrifice than high priest Jesus, and the temple points to the greater temple, the church. And David's prayer is just a beautiful prayer in response to this. He realizes how great God is. It's this focus on how great and how how unique God is. There's no one like you. David was thinking, I've got to do something for God. I've got to take care of God. God scratched my back, now I'll scratch his. And now he realizes what a foolish way of thinking that was. You, O Lord, are doing everything for us and for your people. You, O Lord, are the one who gives to us everything we have. You're not a God who's served by human hands. You're not a God who needs anything from us. And you've spoken these stunning, great promises. And just may your name be praised. May your name be established and magnified forever. Because you are the one true God and you do good things for your people. Let's remember that. Whenever we get a little bit too full of ourselves and we think that somehow God needs us or we're going to do something for God. Or somehow we present our plans before God as though we have come up with the way to save the church and establish his kingdom and whatever. Like none of that. None of that. God is the one true God. He has given us everything we need through Jesus Christ. He is building his church. It is his kingdom, and he is the king. who created, established, who keeps, who protects, and provides for his people. So let's praise his name and be thankful for his goodness. Let's praise Father, thank you for being the one true God, our Father, King, Provider, Protector, Sustainer, Giver of every good and perfect gift Forgive us for times when we think that somehow we are giving you something and making you better off. All of life is a gift. from you. And every opportunity we have to serve is really you blessing us. And so we thank you. We thank you for your church that you are building. We pray that you would continue to build your church. and glorify your name in us and through us to the nations. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for 1 Chronicles 17. Tomorrow we're going to move on right on to chapter 18. Hope you can be with me then, have a blessed day in the Lord.