Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to day 527 and 1 Chronicles chapter 6. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us, for this day, for this chapter in your Word. We pray that you would bless us and write your word on our hearts and draw us close to Jesus, our Savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. First Chronicles chapter 6 focuses on the tribe of Levi, and it really is the central chapter in the genealogies about Israel. Chapters 1 through 9 of 2nd Chr of 1 Chronicles are genealogies. Chapters 2 through 8 really focus in on Israel and the people of God. Chapter 2 is Judah. Chapter 8 is Benjamin. And in the middle, chapter 6. is um is Levi. And so Levi is uh is central because not only did Israel need a king from the tribe of Judah but needed a priest, which is represented by the tribe of Levi. So here's 1 Chronicles chapter 6. six The sons of Levi, Gershon, Kohath, and Morari, the sons of Kohath, Amram, Ishar, Hebron, and Uziel, the children of Amram, Aaron, Moses, and Miriam and the sons of Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, Eliezar, and Ithamar. Elieazar fathered Phineas, Phineas fathered Abishua, Abishhua fathered Bucai, Bucai fathered Uzai Uzaih fathered Zarahiah. Zarahiah fathered Mariath. Miraath fathered Amariah. Amariah fathered Ahitub. Ahitub fathered Zadok. Zadok fathered Ahimeaz, Ahimeaz fathered Azariah, Azariah fathered Johannon, and Johannon fathered Azariah. It was he who served as priest in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem. Azariah fathered Amariah, Amariah fathered Ahitub, Ahitub fathered Zadok, Zadok fathered Shalem, Shalem fathered Hilkiah, and Hilkiah fathered Az Zariah Azariah fathered Saraiah, Saraiah fathered Jehosadak, and Jehosadak went into exile when the Lord sent Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. The sons of Levi, Gershon, Kohath, and Marari. And these are the names of the sons of Gershon, Libni and Shimei. The sons of Kohath, Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uziel, the sons of Morari, Mali, and Mushi. These are the clans of the Levites according to their fathers of Gershim, Libni his son, Jehath his son, Zimah his son, Joah his son, Ido his son, Zerah his son, Geothari his son, the sons of Kohath, Aminidad his son, Korah his son, Asur his son, Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Asur his son, Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaal his son, the sons of Elkanah. Amassi and Ahamath, Elkanah his son, Zophi his son, Nahath his son, Eliab his son Jerahan, his son, Elkanah, his son, the sons of Samuel, Joel, his firstborn, the second, Abijah, the sons of Morari, Mali, Libni his son, Shimei, Uzzah his son, Shemea, Haggiah his son, and Asaiah his son. These are the men whom David put in charge of the service and song in the house of the Lord after the ark rested there. They ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting until Solomon built the house of the Lord in Jerusalem, and they performed their service according to their order. These are the men who served, and their sons. Of the sons of the Kohphites, Heman, the singer, the son of Joel, son of Samuel, son of Elkanah. son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toa, son of Zuth, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah, son of Tehath, son of Asir, son of Abiah, son of Korah son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel. And his brother Athath who stood on his right hand, namely Asaph, the son of Barakiah, son of Shimeah, son of Michael, son of Baaseah, son of Melch Melkaijah, son of Ethne, son of Zira, son of Adeda, son of Ethan, son of Zimah, son of Shimei, son of Jehath, son of Gershon, son of Levi. On the left hand were their brothers the sons of Morari, Ethan, the son of Kishai, son of Abdi, son of Mulak, son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Hilkiah son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shemer, son of Mali, son of Mushi, son of Morari, son of Levi. And their brothers, the Levites, were appointed for all the service of the tabernacle and the house of God But Aaron and his sons made offerings on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense for all the work of the most holy place. and to make atonement for Israel according to all that Moses, the servant of God, had commanded. These are the sons of Aaron. Eliezer his son, Phineas his son, Abishua his son, Bucai his son, Uzai his son, Zarehiah his son, Miraoth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son, Zadok his son, Ahimeaz his son. These are their dwelling places, according to their settlements within their borders, the sons of Aaron. To the sons of Aaron, of the clan of the Kohathites, for theirs was the first lot, to them they gave Hebron, in the land of Judah, and its surrounding pasture lands. But the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb, the son of Jephunnah. To the sons of Aaron, they gave the cities of refuge, Hebron, Libna with its pasture. Lands, Jatur, Eshtamoah with its pasture lands, Hillan with its pasture lands, Deber with its pasture lands, Ashin with its pasture lands, and Bethshemesh with its pasture land. And from the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon, Giba with its pasture lands, Alamath with its pasture lands, and Anathoth with its pasture lands, all their cities throughout their clans were thirteen. To the rest of the Kohathites were given by lot out of the clan of the tribe, out of the half tribe, the half of Manasseh, ten cities. To the Gershemites, according to their clans, were allotted thirteen cities out of the tribes of Issachar, Asher, Naphtali, and Manasseh in Bashin. To the Morarites, according to their clans, were allotted twelve cities out of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun. So the people of Israel gave the Levites the cities with their pasture land. They gave by lot out of the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin, these cities that are mentioned by name And some of the clans of the sons of Kohath had cities of their territory out of the tribe of Ephraim. They were given the cities of refuge, Shechem with its pasture lands in the hill country of Ephraim. Gizer with its pasture lands, Jochmeh with its pasture lands, Beth Horon with its pasture lands, Igelon with its pasture lands lands, Gath Rennon with its pasture lands, and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Aner with its pasture lands, and Biliam with its pasture lands, for the rest of the clans. of the Koathites. To the Gershemites were given out of the clan of the half tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashin, with its pasture land. lands and Ashtaroth with its pasture lands, and out of the tribe of Issachar, Kedesh with its pasture lands, Dabarath with its pasture lands, Ramoth with its pasture lands, and Anam with its pasture lands. Out of the tribe of Asher, Mashel with its pasture lands, Abdon with its pasture lands, Hukok with its pasture lands, and Rehab with its pasture lands. And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its pasture lands, Hammon with its pasture lands, and Kiriatham with its pasture lands. To the rest of the Morarites were allotted as the tribe of Zebulun, Ramona with its pasture lands, Tabor with its pasture lands. and beyond the Jordan at Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the wilderness with its pasture lands, Jazah with its pasture lands, Ketamoth with its pasture lands and Mepoth with its pasture lands, and out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its pasture lands, Meneh Ma'Mah Mahanaam with its pasture lands, Heshbon with its pasture lands, and Jazer with its pasture lands, and that is the tribe of Levi. You see, they get eighty-one verses in their chapter, which makes it very centrally prominent in this genealogy of the tribes of Israel, of the people of Israel. because they were the tribe of the priesthood and the tribe of the worship of God in the tabernacle in the temple. uh the sons of Aaron were the priests, but the rest of the Levites led singing and music and took care of the furnishings and the and the tabernacle and the temple. uh served their turn in the t in the tabernacle and later in the temple preparing the meat and cleaning up afterwards and repairing things and you know Teaching the law. They were also scattered throughout Israel because they were to teach the law to Israel. The cities of refuge were where someone could go if they had committed what we would call accidental manslaughter, non involuntary manslaughter. Uh, if he killed somebody didn't mean it, they could run to a city of refuge, and they were put in the charge of the Levites because the Levites were to be experts in the law, and they were to try that person, and if they were not guilty of murder but it was involuntary they would provide them with a place of refuge and it was until the death of the high priest. So that So everything was tied in. The Levites were scattered throughout. They didn't have a particular land of their own, but they were given cities among all the tribes, and they had this very important function. Like we did yesterday with chapter 5, we're going to check my two recommended guides here for 1 Chronicles chapter 6. and see what they say. So first the Family Worship Bible Guide from Reformation Heritage Books. The prominence of the Levites in the genealogies reminds us that God's purpose required not just a king, but also a priest. The primary function of the priesthood was to make atonement for Israel, verse 49. Only by the forgiveness of sins could God dwell among his people, as he once dwelt with Adam, without violating his holiness The sons of Aaron could only cleanse the flesh with outward rituals, but Christ alone cleanses the conscience with forgiveness. Hebrews 9, 13 and 14. For he, quote, put away sin by the sacrifice of himself, verse twenty-six of Hebrews nine. It was a great consolation to Israel that they had the high priest appointed by God living among them To whom do you look to make atonement for your sins? Any one besides Christ, who claims to be a priest, and offers you absolution for your sins, is a pretender and an offence to God. For he said to his son, You are a priest forever. That's Psalm 110. 4 and Hebrews 5, 5, and 6. That's the family worship Bible guide. And now we'll turn to my friend Ryan's. Tapestry, divine tapestry. 1 Chronicles 6 says, the sons of Levi lead God's covenant people in worship as priests and musicians And the verse here is verse 15. Jehosadak went into captivity when the Lord carried Judah and Jerusalem into captivity by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar. Again, it's a reminder to us that the Lord was sovereign over all of these things. And so Those are the the commentary from those two books. So what I see is uh the first part of this chapter, some of these names would sound familiar because having read first and second kings, first second Samuel We know some of these high priests. These are the lists of the high priests who are all descendants of Aaron It is interesting that the same names get recycled over and over again. How many people are named Azariah, right? Uh Zadok several times. You know, so those names are just become sort of prominent family names. There is one here. Um Hilkiah in verse 15, Shalom fathered Hilkiah, Hilkiah fathered Azariah. Jeremiah the prophet is known as Jeremiah Bar Hilkiah, Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah. of the priests who were at Anathoth. This Hilkiah who served as high priest could have been the father of Jeremiah. So it's about the right time period, shortly before the exile, so it would fit. We don't know that with 100% certainty, but it it does seem to fit that that would have been uh possibly his uh Jeremiah's father. So but what else we see here, uh one other thing I wanted to note was that all of the tribes had to sacrifice in order to provide for the worship of God rightly in the tabernacle and the temple. And the Levites had to depend upon This sacrificial gift from the tribes. And we do have that incident during King Saul's day when he ordered the death of the priests at Nob because They had helped David during the time when he was fleeing from Saul. So we do have that That example of what could have happened throughout Israel, but mostly it didn't happen. So the tribes had to sacrificially give to support this, and then the people of the tribe of Levi had to depend upon the people of Israel in their generosity. That is kind of an example for us today of the fact that the worship of God in the church The church is the living temple. Christ is the cornerstone. Christ is the high priest rules over his church. He reigns over our worship. He is ordering us and building us up as a living temple for his glory. But to provide for the worship of God within the church takes the sacrifice of all of God's people. Everyone in the church is required to tithe. to contribute and the primary place where that tithe goes is to the worship of God and the the growth of the church. And those of us who are in ministry There's a biblical principle that those who preach the gospel should make their living from the gospel. We are in the position of being like Levites within the church today, of being dependent upon The sacrificial generosity of God's people. It's a great privilege to have that that position. So it's a reminder to us that the church depends upon the generosity of God's people. And That's the way that it that it should be. But ultimately, Christ is the fulfillment of the tribe of Levi just as he is the fulfillment of the tribe of Judah, because he is the high priest over the house of God. And he is the one who is building up his church as the living temple to glorify his name forever. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the tribe of Levi. Thank you for what you teach us through them, the importance of knowing your word and teaching your word. of leading in worship. Thank you for giving me that call in my life. I'm so unworthy of that call and yet Yet I'm so privileged and thankful that you've called me to know your word, to teach your word, to lead in worship, to proclaim your word. And I just thank you for that privilege. I pray that you would make me more faithful. And I pray that you would make all pastors and all churches faithful to you. And make your people generous in supporting the work of your church, for your church is where Christ is glorified and where he reigns. as the great high priest over the house of God. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for 1 Chronicles 6, tomorrow, one of the things that the Levites did was lead in singing and worship and singing of Psalms. So tomorrow we're going to be jumping over to the Psalms and picking up Psalm 78. Join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.