Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 523. of our three-year journey through the Word of God, we come to 1 Chronicles chapter 3. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your faithfulness to your people and to your promises. You never abandon your people, you never break your promises. Things aren't always fulfilled the way we expect, but you always do much more abundantly above and beyond our expectations when you do that. We thank you, Father, for your goodness and faithfulness in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, 1 Chronicles chapter 3 These are the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron, the firstborn Amnon by Ahinoim the Jezreelite, the second Daniel by Abigail the Carmelite. The third, Absalom, whose mother was Maica, the daughter of Talmai, king of Gesher. The fourth, Adonijah, whose mother was Haggath The fifth, Shephatiah, by Abital. The sixth, Ithraim, by his wife Egla. Six were born to him in Hebron, where he reigned for seven years and six months. And he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem. These were born to him in Jerusalem, Shemiah, Shobad, Nathan, and Solomon, four by Bathshua, the daughter of Ammiel. Then Ibhar, Elishima, Eliphalet, Noga, Nepheg, Jaffia, Elishima, Eliada, and Oliphalet, nine. All these were David's sons, besides the sons of the concubines, and Tamar was their sister. The son of Solomon was Rehoboam, Abijah his son, Asah his son, Jehoshaphat his son, Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son, Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son, Ahaz, his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son, Amon his son, Josiah his son The sons of Josiah, Johan the firstborn, the second Jehoiakim, the third, Zedekiah, and the fourth Shalem, the descendants of Jehoiakim, Jechaniah his son, Zedekiah his son, and the sons of Jechoniah the captive, Shealtiel, his son, Malkreom, Pediah, Shenazar, Jechemiah, Hoshemah, and Nedobiah and the sons of Pedeah, Zerubbabel and Shimei, and the sons of Zerubabel, Meshulem and Hananiah, and Shemal Shemel Shelamith was their sister And Hashuba, Ohel, Barekiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab Hesed five, the sons of Hananiah Pelatiah and Jesheah. This his son Raphaea, his son Arnon, his son Obadiah, his son Shekaniah, the son of Shekaniah Shaniah, and the son of Shemaiah Hattush, Egal, Bariah, Nerayah, and Shaphat six. The sons of Nerah, Elionai, Hizkaiah, and Azrakam III. The sons of Elionai, Hodoviah, Eliashib Peleah, Akub, Johannon, Deleah, and Anonai 7. That is 1 Chronicles chapter 3. Now the ESV heading of this chapter is Descendants of David. And we can actually see that that's exactly what we have in front of us. These are the sons of David. Because the first words of this chapter, that's really what the focus of this chapter is on. What we're doing, in fact, is picking up from the middle of chapter 2. So in chapter 2, starting in verse 10. We had the descendants of Ram. Ram fathered Aminadab, Aminadab fathered Nashan, Prince of the Sons of Judah, Nashan fathered Salman, Salman fathered Boaz, Boaz fathered Obed, Obed fathered Jesse. Jesse fathered Eliab his firstborn, Abinadh his second, Shimeah the third, Nathanael the fourth, Radi the fifth, Ozim the sixth, David the seventh, and their sisters were So we have David mentioned there in 2. 15, and of course anybody reading the chronicler knows exactly who David is. In fact, David is going to be the primary focus of this whole book of 1 Chronicles. But we just ended with him in 215. Well now we circle back and pick up where 215 left off and we get the descendants of David. And they're broken into three sections. And these three sections are the sons of David, all of his sons. right but then you have the kings from David to the exile that goes from verse 10 uh down to um Sorry, lost my spot. Um yeah, down to verse seventeen where we have um the sons of Jekoniah the captive, Shealtiel his son. So that's the captivity there in verse 17. So 10-17 is from Solomon to the exile. And then following the exile you have uh eighteen to twenty-four. Uh th this this sort of threefold division going from the sons of David to then the sons of the kings, from David to the exile and then from the exile to the present. It's a little bit, not perfectly, but it's a little bit anticipatory of the genealogy that we find in Matthew chapter 1. If we look very quickly at this genealogy in Matthew chapter 1, we'll see it also breaks down into three sections. Now the section is a little bit different because the first section is from Abraham to David, but then it's from David to the exile. and then from the exile to Jesus. And so you have that same breakdown, the kings before the exile, and then the kings after the return or after the exile. So both have a threefold structure to them, but uh this one in 1 Chronicles chapter 3 focuses on uh David's all of David's sons in the first part, whereas in Matthew, uh, he's really concerned to trace Jesus as the son of David and the son of Abraham. But you still have that distinction between the kings leading up to the exile and the kings coming back from the exile. So we'll talk about that in a minute as to why that is. But here we have these sons of David. He's got a number of sons who were born to him, six were born to him in Hebron, and then you had nine who were born to him in Jerusalem. So he's got fifteen sons. Tamar was their sister. She's named. That is not to say that there were not other daughters of David The chronicler here is not telling us any of the family drama, any of the problems that were there in David's household. He's just giving us the genealogies here But the mention of Tamar, Tamar was their sister, that should definitely prompt any knowledgeable reader to say, yeah, we know. David's family was full of sin and conflict and heartache. Now, one person you might not recognize, because her name's a little bit different here, is Bathshua, the daughter of Ammiel. Bathsheba, the daughter of Amiel, is the same as uh Bathsheba, just a little slightly different spelling. Um, and so these are the children that were born to David by Bathsheba. And there are actually four. and Solomon uh the fourth of those, uh in addition to I think the one who who died. So we have these fifteen sons of David and all these different wives, and we know that it was a household that was marked by conflict, right? You had Amnon uh who raped his sister Tamar, and then you had Absalom who killed Amnon and then who led a revolt against David. You have Bathshua who was um Taken advantage of, seduced by the king, and stolen away from her rightful husband, Uriah the Hittite. So there's a lot of sin. One of the observations we've made is that Any genealogy we find in the Bible is a record of the fact that God's faithfulness to keep his covenant promises persists. despite the presence of great sin. That human sin does not thwart the gracious promises and purposes of God. And we can be thankful for that because there's plenty of sin in our lives. And so it's good news that when God made this covenant promise to David, one of your descendants will sit on the throne forever, that even though his household was a hot mess, I mean it would make Any sort of reality TV show family like the Kardashians look normal almost by comparison. This is just a dysfunctional family with a capital DYS And, you know, this is not not not really neat or PG, right? It's sin And it's devastating consequences of rape and murder and incest and adultery and it's horrible. We shouldn't make light of those things. They are horrible and they have real disastrous consequences. But God's faithfulness to his people and his promises and his purposes, that faithfulness is greater than our sin. Amen. Where sin increased, grace abounded all the more, the end of Romans 5 tells us. And that's what we see here in David's story. And we also see it in the line of the kings. I think it's neat coming into this after we've been through First and Second Kings because these kings from verse uh ten to seventeen are are familiar to us, right? We've just been in their stories over these last several months and we know that some of them were were pretty good. Uh just a reminder, Azariah here is Uzziah. It's a different uh variant on Uzziah. It's the variant that's used in Kings both are used there. And then so Uzziah was a pretty good king, and Hezekiah was certainly a pretty good king. Josiah was a great king. It's interesting the genealogy kind of takes a break and has to sort of restart with him, the sons of Josiah. And that's because he has three different sons and they're not gonna you know a couple of them are gonna serve on the throne but not in birth order. And it's the time when they start to go into captivity. But but it is interesting, Josiah then gets kind of a prominent place where it's Josiah, his son, and then the sons of Josiah. You get that also with the descendants of Jehoiakim. Zerubbabel is mentioned here. He is the governor of Judea post-exile, who along with Ezra and Nehemiah helps to rebuild the temple, helps to reestablish the right worship of God in Jerusalem. So he's an important guy. Um and he gets he gets really significant real estate in the Bible. He's one of the most overlooked Old Testament characters in the in the book of Hagi and as well as in the book of Ezra. He was a great a great guy and and many people thought he would be the restoration of the Davidic dynasty, but the thing is none of these guys After the exile, after the captive Jechoniah, none of them would serve on the throne. And yet the line of David was preserved. We know it was preserved all the way down to Jesus. And Jesus was the one who sits on the throne forever. So after Jesus we don't have a need to preserve the line of David anymore. Uh Jesus didn't have any natural descendants, but he has numerous spiritual descendants who inherit the kingdom, the throne of which he sits on forever and ever. So we just see the wonderful faithfulness of God's promises to his people. and the preservation of this line. It sin, conflict, civil war, you know, insurrection treachery, idolatry, exile, none of that. Reminds me at the end of Romans 8. Nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. The Lord remains faithful through it. Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this wonderful chapter and for the truth that it teaches us. Continue to lead us in your faithfulness and help us to depend on you. Forgive us for our sins. We don't want to make light of our sin. It is serious and it has real consequences. But we are also thankful. beyond what our words can say. We're so thankful for the fact that our sin cannot separate us from you, because you have separated our sin from us. as far as the east is from the west, as we're going to hear about in this Sunday sermon. Thank you for such grace, and thank you for your Son Jesus Christ, who is the fulfillment of all of your promises and purposes. And who is the eternal king who sits on David's throne forever. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Tomorrow we'll be on to 1 Chronicles chapter 4. Hope you can join me for that. Have a very blessed day in the Lord.