Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bummel from Forest Hill President. It's time for 1 Chronicles 25. We had a couple of days in Psalms and Proverbs. Now we're back to 1 Chronicles. We're back to David's ordering of the Levites for the service in the temple. his son Solomon would build. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to this important chapter together. Heavenly Father, thank you for every part of your word. It is all truth. It is all given from you. It's a gift and a blessing to us. It's a blessing for us to be able to study it together as your people. Thank you for this technology that allows us to gather together in this virtual way through the use of video and internet. We thank you for that We pray that you bless us by your Holy Spirit as we look to your word today. Would you write it on our hearts, Father? We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. First Chronicles 25 David and the chiefs of the service also set apart for the service the sons of Asaph, and of Hemon, and of Judhan, who prophesied with lyres, with harps, and with cymbals. The list of those who did the work and of their duties was of the sons of Asaph, Zachar, Joseph, Nephaniah. And Asherielah, sons of Asaph, under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king. Of Judah, the sons of Judith, Gedaliah, Ziri, Jesheah, Shimei, Hashabbiah and Matassiah six, under the direction of their father Juduthin, who prophesied with the liar. in thanksgiving and praise to the Lord. Of Heman, the sons of Heman, Bukiah, Mataniah, Uziel, Shibul, and Jeremoth, Hananiah Henani, Eliatha, Gidalti, and Ramamti Ezir, Josh Bika Shah Halothi, Hothor, Mahazioth, all these were sons of Hemon, the king's seer, according to the promise of God to exalt him For God had given Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. They were all under the direction of their father, in the music in the house of the Lord, with cymbals, harps, and lyre In singing to the Lord, all who were skilled was two hundred and eighty-eight, and they cast lots for their duties, small and great, teacher and pupil alike. The first lot fell for Asaph to Joseph, the second to Gedaliah to him and his brothers and his sons, twelve, the third to Zachar, his sons and his brothers, twelve. The fourth to Israe, his sons and his brothers twelve. The fifth to Nathaniah, his sons and his brothers twelve. The sixth to Bukiah, his sons and his broth This twelve The seventh to Jeshereelah, his sons and his brothers twelve, the eighth to Jeshea, his sons and his brothers twelve, the ninth to Madaniah. his sons and his brothers twelve, the tenth to Shimi, his sons and his brothers twelve, the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his brothers twelve, the twelfth to the thirteenth Shabua, Shu sorry, Shubael, his sons and his brothers twelve. To the fourteenth, Matathiah, his sons and his brothers twelve. twelve, to the fifteenth to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers twelve, to the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers twelve, to the seventeenth to Josh Bekosha his sons and his brothers twelve, to the eighteenth, to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers twelve, to the nineteenth, to Malathe, his sons and his brothers twel twelve to the twentieth, to Eliatha, his sons and his brothers twelve. To the twenty-first, to Hother, his sons and his brothers twelve. To the twenty-second, to Gidealtai, his sons and his brothers twelve To the 23rd, to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers twelve. To the twenty-fourth, to Ramamti Ezir, his sons and his brothers twelve. So we have 24 divisions of 12 members each, and that makes 288 members. Eight singers total, and that's exactly the number that they had. There's a symmetry and there's an order to it. Um and that's beautiful, and that's God's arrangement. So what is David doing here? Well, David is trying to make sure that there is provided for the service of God skilled, trained, competent singers. And that it not become one person's responsibility or just one small group of people's responsibility, but there's actually 24 different divisions And so they would serve a couple of weeks each, two weeks each, and then they would rotate through these 24 different divisions. Um and uh they would each take turns leading. So there were three sons of Asaph. Um sorry, there were three uh The sons of Asaph and the sons of Heman and the sons of Judith and three family groupings within the Levites who were the Levitical singers. We do have psalms from Asaph and his sons. We do have a psalm from Heman. And we don't have any psalms in the Psalter that are explicitly written. by Juduthan, although some of them say according to Judahan, which may have been uh identified with that service uh of of that tribal not a tribe, that family group of Levitical sinners. So you had uh this this distribution of this labor So this is the pattern is that people would come and serve in the temple full-time for two weeks. continually and during that time of their two week service there were twelve members who were serving and so they would take shifts and they would take turns, they'd probably be in different groups. Uh we don't know exactly how that worked, but you could imagine Let's say if there were four of them who worked together and there were then three shifts and then you could have that be the twelve who were And then for the rest of it they go back to their cities, to the Levitical cities, and there they're supposed to minister to the people. Maybe they should teach the same songs to the people back in their towns and in their tribal areas where they're put, but they also have families to take care of and fields to tend and other things that they are called to do So these are trained and skilled musicians. They they play instruments, they they prophesy, which doesn't necessarily always have to mean like a prophet prophesy. Like getting revelation from the Lord, although some of them did. We know that Asaph and Heman and maybe uh some of those psalms that say according to Judithan, uh maybe these are psalms that they were given that were direct word of God. There may have been other things that they would have sung that would have been written by David or passed down from Moses or written by others. And so to prophesy doesn't always mean you're receiving revelation from the Lord and you're putting it forth. Sometimes it just means to speak forth. in song, the word of the Lord. And so you can prophesy and say, thus says the Lord, and you can have this, you know, all the Psalms fit into that category. So even when Asaph and his sons were on duty and maybe they're singing some of the Psalms of David, they didn't necessarily write those, but you could still say they're prophesying with the lyre under the direction of the king. Because they're speaking forth, they're sounding forth the word of God in song, and they're leading the people in singing forth the word of God in song. So, what do we see here? A couple of things. First of all, worship should be orderly Second of all, it shouldn't be on one person of sort of cult of personality or celebrity song leader to sort of be the driving force behind the music. But rather ought to be a shared responsibility with a team of people, maybe even rotating teams of people, of course, different churches, different sizes, have different um gifts and abilities and and resources but but I think there's a pattern here and it's not it's not a thus says the Lord. Whenever you're going by example, whenever you're going by precedent, it's not the same thing as having a direct commandment, right? There's no commandment in scripture that says you shall not have one designated paid worship leader for the church, but you shall have teams of people who rotate in service. Like there's not anything in the Bible that lays it out that specifically. However, it is a good pattern that we can pick up on that this work was shared among these two hundred and eighty-eight people. Now this was for the whole nation of Israel, which was millions of people, right? And they had 288. So you scale that back to a local church. Obviously, your local church is not going to have 288 professional musicians who can be in 24 different teams of 12 members each. You only serve two Sundays a year, whatever. That's that's not realistic. But you can take the principle from it and you can say all the work of the church and the worship of God and leading in worship and and leading in songs of praise should be should be should be shared by the people. As you're gifted, as you're called, as you're able, you should serve. But there's also this idea that since these Levitical singers would spend most of their time at their home villages, not in the temple, that worship ought to be something that's taking place in our homes and in our uh community gatherings and our family gatherings as well as in when the church gathers. Now the church gathers every Lord's Day now. uh and whereas the temple would just have mass gatherings of people three times a year, but there were people always coming to worship beyond that, and so there was these twenty four Divisions provided for. So things should be done orderly. The responsibility to lead should be shared. It shouldn't be on one person, right? And then there's also this sense that Everything is done according to the command of the king, under the direction of leadership, and according to the promise of God. So you see that kind of It's under the direction of the king, it's under the authority of the leadership, and it's according to the promise of God. And that means that the worship of the church should be according to scripture. and under the supervision of the elders who are God's appointed leaders to shepherd the flock, and it ought to be according good order and according to sound bill. Biblical principles. It's not just we're going to sing this song because it sounds cool and we think people will really like it. You know, is it biblical? Does it fit within the pattern of worship? Is it in support of the Word of God? Um And uh in support of what God is doing in the whole worship service, is it under the direction of the elders and all of that? And then finally, where do we see Christ in 1 Chronicles 2? twenty five. This is one of those chapters where honestly you sit back and say, Oh, I don't want to stretch. I don't want to say something that's not biblical to just force it out, right? But obviously Jesus is the fulfillment of the temple. And we in Christ are the temple. So we can see that connection where David here is providing for the temple. Jesus himself is the fulfillment of the temple. He said In John chapter 2, if you tear down this temple, I'll rebuild it in three days. And he was talking about the temple of his body. Now, by faith in Christ, we are ourselves stones in that living temple joined to Christ, the chief cornerstone, laid on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, we are being built up into that temple. And so it is only through Christ that all this applies to us. I mean I sort of jumped right in and sort of drawing out Of how we would follow this pattern. But we have no right to this pattern. We have no right to worship God. We have no access to God. And so that adds an explicit element to our worship as the temple of God means everything needs to be connected. So even though that's not explicit in 1 Chronicles 25, in the way that Christ fulfills the temple In the way that we become the temple by being joined to Christ, our worship should not only be orderly and should be And under the authority of the elders and according to the Word of God, but it ought to be explicitly Christ-centered because Christ, the chief cornerstone, the whole temple finds its alignment, its place its meaning, its function, its purpose by being joined into that chief cornerstone. So our worship, whenever we gather for worship as the church, should be explicitly Christ-centered. So I know several of you or many of you who listen to these daily devotionals or watch them regularly, you don't come to Forrest Hill Church. So I would just encourage you to look for and contribute toward those same things at whatever church you're at. Pray for the leadership of your church. Contribute. Serve as you are able. Seek to have a church that is all of those things that we talked about. you know, orderly, shared responsibility, under the leadership of elders, according to the Word of God, and centered on Christ. That's what we pick up here in 1 Chronicles 20. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your love for us. Thank you for your worship that you've given to us as a joy and a privilege. We get to gather together. and worship you in song, in spirit, and in truth. We pray that you would be at work at Forest Hill Presbyterian Church to make our worship More pleasing to you, more edifying to your people. May it be truly led by your Spirit, shaped by your word, centered on Christ, glorifying to your name and a blessing to your people. And may this be true for every church represented by by those who are here listening and following along with us in this devotional journey together. Build up your church for the glory of your name and for the good of your people, we pray. In Jesus' name Name. Amen. Well that's first Chronicles 25. Tomorrow we'll be on to chapter 26. Have a blessed day in the Lord.