Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 610 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We're back in 1 John for our final look at 1 John chapter 5. A wonderful and stirring conclusion to this short and powerful letter from the Apostle John. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into his word together this morning. Father in heaven. You are powerful. You are the one who overcomes You are the one who gives life and strength and power for victory over the world and our flesh and the devil and death and hell. You are our hope in all of these things. We pray that you would write 1 John 5 on our hearts today Help us to really receive it, to understand it, to believe it, to receive it, to live according to it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. 1 John 5, everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. And everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of him. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments And his commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? This is he who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ Not by the water only, but by the water and the blood. And the Spirit is the one who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth. For there are three that testify, the Spirit and the Water and the Blood. These three agree. If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater. For this is the testimony of God that he is born concerning his son. Whoever believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself Whoever does not believe God has made him a liar because he has not believed in the testimony that God has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the son has life. Whoever does not have the son of God does not have life. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him. If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will give him life. To those who commit sins that do not lead to death There is sin that leads to death. I do not say that one should pray for that. All wrongdoing is sin, but there is sin that does not lead to death. We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does not touch him. We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true. In his son Jesus Christ, he is the true God and eternal life. Little children, keep yourselves From idols. 1 John 5. It's a stirring and challenging and encouraging conclusion to this powerful little book. It begins with a little bit of logic of how one sentence flows to another and how they're connected. So it begins with this statement that everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. Faith in Jesus Christ as the Son of God and the Savior of sinners, as the Christ, the anointed one, the long-awaited Messiah, the Redeemer of the people of God, faith in Jesus Christ is a gift from God. that requires that we be born again. You have to be born again. You have to be given faith by God. in order to believe. And that's why John can say everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. So you actively presently believe that Jesus is the Christ and you have been in the past. born of God in order to have that faith. What flows from that? Well everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of him. So if we believe Because we ourselves have been born of the Father, and this is the work of God in us. We should love the Father for the work that He's done in us and for us. And that means that we should love everyone else who has been born of him. If we are in the family of God and we love God our Father, we must also love our brothers and sisters. So, how do we know if we really love the children of God, if we really love our brothers and sisters? Well, that comes when we love God and obey His commandments. You see, God has commanded us, among other things, to love one another. And love does no wrong to our neighbor or to our brother or sister in Christ. Love seeks to imitate God and the Father and how the Father has treated us in the way that we treat one another. And so this is the evidence. This is the assurance, this is the knowledge that we do truly love God and we truly love the children of God when we love God and obey his commandments. This is the love of God that we keep his commandments. His commandments are not burdensome. A lot of Christians will say things that sound right theologically. That sound humble, but are actually oftentimes just an excuse for ongoing patterns of willful sin in our lives. We'll say things like We sin all the time, in thought, word, and deed. And that is true. Because the two greatest commandments are that we love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and that we love our neighbors as ourselves. And we are commanded to actively keep these commandments, love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and love our neighbors as ourselves. And to the extent that we're not fully keeping them, we are sinning. And so it is true that we sin against God by failing to keep the two greatest commandments. Basically all the time, because we don't really ever love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. We may feel feelings of love toward God. We may be more or less devoted toward God, but we're never we're never really all in like that. We may think we are, but we're not. And we don't ever really love our neighbors as much as we love ourselves. We may be kind to our neighbors, we may be do nice things for our neighbors, we may be concerned for our neighbors, but we don't really love our neighbors as much as we love ourselves. So it's true that we sin all the time in our thoughts, in our words, and in our deeds. But you see, it's a wrong conclusion to then say, well You know, I'm just a sinner, totally depraved, and all I do is sin all the time. That's not true that all I do is sin all the time. God has given me his commandments, God has given me the Holy Spirit, God has given me redemption in Christ. And I can walk sincerely in the path of God's commandments. I can. And I must. You see, it's not, this is not, you don't use the one fact as an excuse to say, well, what's the point of trying to keep the commandments of God? What's the point of trying to obey Jesus? What's the point of trying to to to carry out his commandments to keep his commandments because I sin all the time in thought were indeed. You can't do that. You can't use one truth of theology accurate in and of itself and say, well then by implication that relieves me from having to care about this other thing that the Bible tells me that I need to do. You can't use part of the Bible to cancel another part of the Bible, right? Or to undermine the call of God on our lives. We are called by God to keep his commandments. And we're told that his commandments are not burdensome. Why are they not burdensome? I think ultimately the reason why they're not burdensome is because they have been fulfilled in Christ. who is with us, and his Holy Spirit is in us as we keep his commandments. So we can love God, and we can love one another, and we can love our neighbor, perhaps not perfectly in this life But we can sincerely love God, love one another in the body of Christ as children of God, and love our neighbor in the world, because Christ has fulfilled the law for us. Because the Holy Spirit lives in us and is with us and gives us the power to carry out the commandments of God. This is, we're told right here to do it. God's not going to say this if it's impossible. And then he says, everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. The world is not a place of love. It's not a place where the love of God is welcome. It's not a place where people love one another as much as themselves. It's a place of self-seeking, of self-interest, of self-determination. The gospel cuts against that grain. But because Jesus has overcome the world, and we believe in and belong to Jesus, who has won the victory, we overcome the world. Our faith. It's not our faith in and of itself, but it's what what our faith joins us to, or rather who our faith joins us to Our faith connects us to Christ, and Christ has overcome the world. Therefore, this is the victory that overcomes the world, our faith in Jesus, the Son of God. And then he talks more about Jesus, the Son of God. God and the victory that he won over the world. Jesus, the Son of God, how did he win victory over the world? By water and blood. Not by water only, but by the water and the blood. What does that mean? I mean it's not exactly super clear, right? I mean, honestly, you get to this point and you say, John, could you have spelled it out a little bit more clearly? Because that's a little vague. This is an example of where John uses very simple language. There's nothing complex about the language of water, blood, right? Spirit, truth. Those are simple words. Right? Little kids know those words. They know what water is. They know what blood is. They know what the truth is at some level, right? But Jesus coming by the water and the blood and the soul. spirit is a little bit vague, isn't it? Like what is he talking about? Well, I think that this is what he's talking about. How did Jesus enter into his earthly ministry? By water. How did Jesus enter into his earthly ministry by water? By the baptism he received from John the Baptist And who testified at his baptism? But the Holy Spirit, who came down upon him. The Spirit testified. And the Father spoke from heaven, this is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased. But then How did Jesus come by blood? Of course, by the cross of Jesus Christ, by dying in our place, by shedding his blood for us and for our forgiveness, for our reconciliation, for our healing. And at the cross, the Spirit also testified by the darkness that came over the world, by the veil in the temple being torn, by the earthquake that shook open even some graves. There was a testimony. at the time of his baptism, and there was a testimony at the time of his crucifixion, and so spirit, water, and blood, these three agree. It's the testimony of God. This is the anointed one, the Messiah, the Christ. That's what the water speaks of. This is the Redeemer, the Passover Lamb, the perfect final sacrifice. That's what the cross says. That's how Jesus came by water and by blood, by baptism and crucifixion, both testified to in the reality by the Holy Spirit. And so will we receive this testimony from God? We should. Right? We have testimony from men who were eyewitnesses. We have testimony from men who wrote these things down in the gospels for us, but they're telling us of the of the higher testimony of God, and we really should believe that. If God spoke from heaven and said, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased If God testified about Jesus Christ by raising him from the dead, which was the ultimate testimony of God, to the truthfulness of what Christ claimed about himself, we need to receive God's testimony And if we refuse to receive God's testimony, we're saying that God's a liar because we don't believe what he said about his own son. But we do believe, right? Because we do believe, we have eternal life. And that's why he can say very clearly in verse 12, whoever has the Son has life. Whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life because God has sent His Son into the world. God has testified to the truth of who his Son is. God has given us signs of verification and testimony of confirmation, and we either receive what God says or we reject what God says. We either receive the gift of God or we reject the gift of God. And if we receive the gift of God, we receive eternal life, which is found in the Son. The life is in the Son of God. He is the anointed one. He is the perfect sacrifice. He is the high priest. He is the Son of God and the Savior of sinners. Now why does John go through all this? He says, I going through all this again, which I'm sure his readers know, and I'm sure you know But he says, I'm going through this again so that you who believe in the name of the Son of God may know that you have eternal life. He wants us to walk in confidence. He wants us to walk in a confidence that says, I know I'm a child of God and I know that I have eternal life And I'm it's not arrogant for me to say that because it's not anything I did. Right? If you say, if you walk around, you walk up to somebody who's not a believer and you say to them, I know that I'm a child of God, and I know that I have eternal life. Their first reaction is going to be, well, that's awfully arrogant. You're self-righteous? No, I know this because I'm not self-righteous. I know this because I'm not arrogant. It's nothing I did. God gave a gift in his son. And he testified to the truth of the gift he gave in his son. And I believed his testimony and I received the gift. And I am a child of God and I have eternal life. purely by grace, purely through the work of Jesus Christ, that God wants us to walk in that confidence. Confidence Not, oh, I hope I might get in at the end if I'm good enough. Well stop hoping that you're going to be good enough. You can't be. Jesus was. That's the whole point. You can't hope you're going to get in in the end on your own if you're believing in the Savior who died for you. So believe and receive. And this confidence not only allows us to know that we have eternal life, but also if we are children of God, This confidence allows us to know that we have access to the Father as our Father and that He hears us in prayer. And so we should go to Him. And we should pray according to his will. And if we pray according to his will, which revealed in Scripture what we know to be true, then he hears us and he gives us what we've asked for, because God will never break his word. Verses 16 and 17 are very difficult. What does it mean to see a brother committing sin that does not lead to death And then what does it mean of the sin that does lead to death? Well The sin that leads to death, I think, because this comes at the end of John's letter, has to be something that he's referred to throughout the letter. And I'm specifically thinking of that place where John said about the Antichrists, those who went out from us were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would not have gone out from us. Right? Remember that part? This is the Antichrist, those who reject that Jesus is the Son of God. There are those who profess to be Christians. And who openly and completely reject that Jesus is the Son of God. They would say, Jesus is not the Son of God, He is not the Savior of sinners Christianity is false, and they would walk away. That sin leads to death. Because if you die in that sin, you die in unbelief and you will die forever. That's apostasy. All other sin, if I, you know, steal something and I'm I die in the act of stealing that something, I'm still going to go to heaven. I don't go out stealing, but the If it's true, you'll go to heaven. If you're lusting or even committing adultery or you're blaspheming against God or you're um Bearing false witness against your neighbor or you're actively coveting something and you don't see it and you don't repent of it and you die, you're still going to heaven. Right? We don't believe that if you die with unconfessed sin on your soul, you go to hell. That's a Catholic doctrine. That's not a biblical doctrine You're going to go to heaven if you belong to Jesus Christ. And that's actually not what Catholic doctrine is. I shouldn't badmouth and mischaracterize what Catholic doctrine is, but we don't believe this idea that if you die with unconfessed sin That somehow that's going to keep you out of heaven. Jesus died for all of your sin. But if you walk away from Jesus in that definitively rejecting way, if you say No, Jesus Christ is not the Son of God. No, Jesus Christ did not die for my sins. My hope is not found in him. He was just a man. Christianity is a lie and you walk away from it, you die in that. You die in a sin that leads to death. And so you shouldn't pray for that person to be forgiven of that sin. Does that make sense? They can't be forgiven of that sin. They have to repent and be restored. And that's very, very difficult, by the way. So that's, I think, what John is getting at here. Don't look at an apostate person who's walked away from the church and openly denied Christ and say I hope that they'll be forgiven and go to heaven anyway, even if they remain in that in that sin. That's a sin that leads to death. The only thing they can do is get out of that sin. Come back to Jesus Christ. You can't go to heaven in that sin. Everyone who's been born of God does not keep on sinning. You don't deny Jesus. You don't stay in that pattern. This is again in the context, I think this is what John's talking about. Yes, we do sin. I said at the beginning of this devotional, all of us sin all the time in thought, word, and deed, because we're always falling short of God's perfect holy standard. That's true. So what does he mean where everyone who's been born of God does not keep on sinning? Well, you don't keep on denying Christ. You don't keep on walking away from the Lord. You don't keep on walking in open rebellion and disobedience. Because you'll be protected by God from that kind of final apostasy. Now, we've known people who have wandered, right? We've known prodigals. who have wandered in a far country and who have squandered their Christian heritage and then they've repented and they've come back to Christ. That's not who John's talking about here. He's talking about people who just keep on in that pattern. You can't do that because doing that you're turning your back on Christ and going out to the world, and the whole world lies under the evil one. And we belong to Jesus Christ. We are in him who is true and in his son Jesus Christ. You can't just reject the one who is true, reject God who gave his son run out into the world, keep on sinning in that way, and say, I'm a child of God. No. And that's the final exhortation then. Little children, keep yourself from idols. Keep yourself from the idols in the world that would draw your heart away from God. Look, the the trend these days is to call it deconstruction, right? You're deconstructing your faith. What leads people to deconstruction? It's it almost always begins with idolatry. We see it sometimes in people who are uh attracted to fame or popularity. Some YouTube people, very famous YouTube people like Mr. Beast and Rhett and Link. um have apostatized. They've they've they've rejected Christ and they've walked away from the Christian faith that they once believed. Why did they do it? Because they became celebrities. And they loved fame, and they loved money, and they loved influence, and they knew that in order to hold on to that money, fame, and influence, they needed to deny Christ. Now, I don't think it was necessarily a conscious thing that said that, but the idol got such a hold of their heart, the worldliness got such a hold of their heart that Over time, Christ became less and less believable in their minds because they were drifting farther and farther from him. And so that's why the final exhortation in here is, little children, keep yourself from idols, because the idol will get a hold of your heart. and will lead you from Christ. Ultimately, those people, they're they've not been born of God. That's why when people do that, they commit apostasy or they deconstruct their faith, we say they were never really believers to begin with. Why do we say that? Well we say that on the on the basis of First John really is the book to go to when you say, well how can you say they were never really a believer? Well 1 John says earlier in the book, I think it's chapter 2, right, where those who went out from us were not of us. If they were of us, they would not have gone out from us, right? And then here it is, we know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep on sinning. There is a sin that leads to death, and those who commit that sin that leads to death have not been born of God. Because God protects and keeps the ones who have been born of Him. So the ones who give in to the power of the evil one, the ones who give themselves over to idols, the ones who walk away from Christ. are not born again, were not born again. They need to be born again. They need to be saved. So that's what that's what scripture teaches. That's what the book of 1 John, I think, very clearly teaches. So we can pray for them, but we're praying for their salvation, not for their forgiveness of that sin which is in in itself, you can't it's the sin that leads to death because it's apostasy from the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Well, we have assurance if we're following Jesus and if we're believing in Jesus that we have been born of God. And that's where I'd like to end. He is the true God and eternal life. We are in him, and we have a victory that overcomes the world. So you don't need to live in fear. You can walk in confidence. But keep yourself from idols. Let's pray. Father, thank you for loving us. Thank you for giving us life in your Son Jesus Christ. Thank you for the hope of the gospel that is a hope. that nothing in this world can take away. Help us to walk and live in that hope. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, tomorrow we're back to 2 Chronicles. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.