Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 480. of our three-year journey through God's Word, we come to 1 Kings chapter 22, and we're still here in the reign of King Ahab, one of the longest reigning and most powerful monarchs in the history of the Northern Kingdom of Israel. And yet probably the most notorious. Um yeah, as we read yesterday at the end of First Kings twenty one, there was no one else who uh determined to just do what was wrong in the sight of the Lord with the instigation of his wife, and yet he repented. And so God spared him, God had mercy on him. Well now we'll see a little bit of sort of has he repented? How much has he repented? You know, what what what is he going to do here in chapter twenty two? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for loving us and for giving us life in your Son Jesus Christ. We pray that you would bless us with your word today, not just for our ears, but for our minds and our hearts and our lives. Help us not just to hear of you with the hearing of our ears, but help us to receive your word and to be those who treasure and who do your word. By the power of your Holy Spirit at work within us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So first Kings twenty two, just to catch us up of where we are, remember that in chapter twenty, Ahab had gone out and And fought against Ben Hadad the king of Syria and and he was given great victory because Ben Hadad openly mocked Yahweh and said, Well maybe their gods are just gods of the hills and not gods of the plains and so Even though Ben Hadat of Syria had 32 kings in his alliance and they covered the land and there were just two little groups of Israelites, the Israelites had an overwhelming victory. Ahab got himself into trouble because he didn't kill Ben Hadad when he was supposed to. He was supposed to be the instrument of the Lord's vengeance on Ben Hadad, but he He re didn't do that. Instead he wanted to profit from the transaction and have a self-serving approach, and so that was not good. And then Uh yesterday in chapter 21 we looked at Naboth's vineyard and how Ahab continued to have this self-serving approach to the kingship. How can it benefit him personally? So he's got a very self-centered attitude. And then we're told at the end of chapter twenty one that that no one had ever done as much evil as he had done. And yet, when he heard the words of judgment from Elijah the Tishbite about what God was going to do, he repented He put on sackcloth, he fasted, he lay in sackcloth, he went about dejectedly, and God decided to have mercy on him. And not bring the disaster on him, but in his son's days. So now we'll see. Does Ahab bear fruit in keeping with true repentance? Hmm. Well, let's read. For three years Syria and Israel continued without war. But in the third year Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel. And the king of Israel said to his servants, Do you know that Ramoth Gilead belongs to us, and we keep quiet, and do not take it out of the hand of the king of Syria? And he said to Jehoshaphat, Will you go with me to battle at Ramoth Gilead? And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses. And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, Inquire first for the word of the Lord. Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said to them, Shall I go to battle against Ramoth Gilead, or shall I refrain? And they said, Go up, for the Lord will give it into the hand of the king. But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not another is there not here another prophet of the Lord by whom we may inquire? And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the Lord, Micaiah, the son of Imlah. But I hate him, for he never prophesies good concerning me, but evil And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so. Then the king of Israel summoned an officer and said, Bring quickly Micaiah, the son of Imlah. Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting on their thrones, arrayed in their royal robes, at the threshing floor, at the entrance. of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets were prophesying before them. And Zedekiah, the son of Canaanah, made for himself horns of iron and said, Thus says the Lord, with these you shall push the Syrians until they are destroyed. And all the prophets prophesied so, and said, Go up to Ramoth Gilead, and triumph the Lord will give it into the hand of the king. And the messenger, who went to summon Micaiah, said to him, Behold, the words of the prophets, with one accord, are favorable to the king. Let your word be like the word of one of them, and speak favorably. But Micaiah said, As the Lord lives, what the Lord says to me, that will I speak And when he had come to the king, the king said to him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall we refrain? And he said to him, Go up, for the Lord will give it into the hand of the king But the king said to him, How many times shall I make you swear that you speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of the Lord? And he said, I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains as sheep that have no shepherd. And the Lord said, These have no master, let each return to his home in peace And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good concerning me but evil? And Micaiah said, Therefore hear the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne, and all the hosts of heaven standing beside him, on his right hand and on his left. And the Lord said, Who will entice Ahab that he may go up and fall at Ramoth Gilead? And one said one thing, and another said another. Then a spirit came forward before the Lord, saying, I will entice him. And the Lord said to him, By what means? And he said, I will go out, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, You are to entice him, and you shall succeed. Go out and do so. Now therefore, before the Lord has put a lying spirit. Now therefore, behold, the Lord has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets. The Lord has declared disaster for you. Then Zedekiah, the son of Kenaniah, came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, How did the spirit of the Lord go from me to speak to you? And Micaiah said, Behold, you shall see on that day when you go into an inner chamber to hide yourself. And the king of Israel said, Seize Micaiah. And take him back to Amon, the governor of the city, and to Joash, the king's son, and say, Thus says the king, put this fellow in prison. and feed him meagre rations of bread and water until I come in peace. And Micaiah said, If you return in peace, the Lord has not spoken by me And he said, Hear, all you people. So the king of Israel, and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, went up to Ramoth Gilead. And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself and go into battle, but you wear your robes. And the king of Israel disguised himself and went into battle. Now the king of Syria had commanded the thirty-two captains of his chariots, fight with neither small nor great, but only with the king of Israel And when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, It is surely the king of Israel. So they turned to fight against him. And Jehoshaphat cried out. And when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him. But a certain man drew his bow at random and struck the king of Israel between the scale armor and the breastplate. Therefore he said to the driver of his chariot, Turn around and carry me out of the battle, for I am wounded. And the battle continued that day, and the king was propped up in his chariot, facing the Syrians, until at evening he died. And the blood of the wound flowed into the bottom of the chariot, and about sunset a cry went out throughout the army. Every man to his own city, every man to his country. So the king died and was brought to Samaria And they buried the king in Samaria, and they washed the chariot by the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood. And the prostitutes washed themselves in it, according to the word of the Lord that he had spoken Now, the rest of the Acts of Ahab and all that he did, and the ivory house that he built, and the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? So Ahab slept with his fathers. and Ahaziah his son reigned in his place. Jehoshaphat, the son of Asa, began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab, king of Israel Jehoshaphat was 35 years old when he began to reign, and he reigned 25 years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Azuba, the daughter of Shilhi. He walked in all the way of Asa his father. He did not turn aside from it, doing what was right in the sight of the Lord. Yet the high places were not taken away, and the people still sacrificed and made offerings on the high places. Jehoshaphat also made peace with the king of Israel Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat and his might that he showed and how he warred, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? and from the land he exterminated the remnant of the male cult prostitutes who remained in the days of his father Asa. There was no king in Edom. A deputy was king Jehoshaphat made ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold, but they did not go, for the ships were wrecked at Ez and Gaber. Then Ahaziah, the son of Ahab, said to Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with your servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat was not willing. And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father, and Jehoram his son reigned in his place. Ahaziah, the son of Ahab, began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah. Judah, and he reigned two years over Israel. He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. He served Baal and worshipped him, and provoked the Lord the God of Israel to anger in every way that his father had done. That is first Kings chapter twenty-two A long chapter, a lot of content in this chapter, so we're not really going to be able to cover everything in detail, but I think it's a fairly straightforward chapter. The one thing that we need to see here is that while God had mercy on Ahab at the end of chapter 21 because he repented in sackcloth, and went about mourning, and we do see some changes in the administration of Ahab in that we have prophets of the Lord who are openly practicing, who are welcome in the court, and he's consulting them That's a big change. Remember, Elijah thought he was the only one left, and he had fled, and he'd asked the Lord to take his life. Well here we have the same king and queen, but there's now prophets of the Lord operating in the court of Ahab. However, it's still very clear that Ahab is a very self-serving guy. He doesn't like the prophetic ministry of Micaiah. Because Micaiah, clearly the most faithful prophet of these public prophets who are in the court of Ahab or who do public ministry. Elijah, by the by the way, at this time is probably in hiding still, just uh not really showing himself very much. And so he doesn't like the prophecy ministry of Micaiah. And why not? Because he says he never prophesies good concerning me, but only evil. That's what he says in verse eight. So Jehoshaphat is a much more godly man than Ahab. He's not perfect. He's in this alliance with Ahab king of Israel And so he there's some shortcomings there, but he's still a much more godly man than Ahab and he says, No, no, no, you need to hear this. No, let not the king say so, he says at the end of the day. in verse 8. And so Micaiah comes and Micaiah tells him the truth and that is two two parts of the truth. One is if you go out to this battle, you're going to die. And two is the Lord's actually leading you into this death, really to test you and to judge you. So the Lord has has two purposes here. One, he's testing Ahab. Was your repentance real? Are you really wanting to do what God wants you to do? Because here's a true prophet, and he's clearly speaking the word of the Lord. There seems to be no doubt about that. He he presses him, even presses him, because Micaiah tries to just tell him what he wants to hear, right? Oh, go on up. You'll you'll win. And Ahab presses him, do you better tell me the truth? And he says, okay, so here's the truth. You're gonna die. And the tr the other truth is that the Lord's actually leading you into this to test you because He's He's allowed for a lying spirit to be in the mouths of the prophets, and that's why you're hearing this chorus from them and not this truth like you're hearing from me. So right there Ahab has a decision I Ahab has a decision to make. He wants Ramoth Gilead. But he now knows that the word of the Lord is, the true word of the Lord is, that if he goes up, he's going to die. But he still wants Raymoth Gilead. He's not really willing to change his battle plans, except that he says, I can protect myself. I'll just dress like a normal person. He thinks he can outsmart God. He thinks he can thwart the Word of the Lord by changing his clothing. And I love the language of this in verse 34. A certain man drew his bow at random and struck the king of Israel between the scale armor and the breastplate. Therefore he said to the driver of his chariot, Turn around and carry me out of the battle, for I am wounded. A certain man drew his bow at random. Ahab thinks he's protected because he's just dressed like an ordinary soldier. You know, ordinary soldiers die in battle, and the Lord is sovereign over it all. And this certain man at random, not even aiming for the king, just so happens to hit that spot between the plate armor and the and the breast piece, and it goes in to that chest cavity, and he bleeds out. Remember what what Ahab had said in chapter 21 before? Remember what sorry, remember what Elijah had said in chapter 21 before Ahab repented? He said, dogs are going to lick up your blood. That's exactly what happened. They take him back, and the dogs lick up his blood. We get a little bit more information about Jehoshaphat. He's one of these mostly good kings of Judah, where he's not a tolerant of he's not tolerant of idolatry. as in the worship of false gods, and so he doesn't allow the worship of false gods. In fact, there's a remnant, there's a small remnant of male cult prostitutes that even his father Asa, who was a relatively good king uh allowed to be there or didn't quite pursue all the way out of the land and he pursues them all the way out. He gets rid of them all. But he still doesn't have the high places to taken away. Only Hezekiah and Josiah are going to remove the high places. And again, if you don't remember what that refers to, the high places referred to here, because there's no false gods being worshipped There's no worship of Baals or Asherah's or any other false god, but the high places are those places throughout the land where people would worship Yahweh. But they would worship Yahweh in a pagan way. You find a high hill, you find a green tree, you build your own altar, you offer sacrifices in your own way. Not worshiping at the temple with the Levitical priesthood according to the law of Moses. So it's the incorrect, unbiblical worship of Yahweh that is these high places and he doesn't get rid of them. And that's why he's not exactly purely good. He's mostly good. But he's not exactly what he should be. And and he tries to have some success. He tries to make uh ships to go get some gold like Solomon had done, but it doesn't really work out. And then we're told a little bit about Ahaziah, but we're going to hold his story until we get into 2 Kings. He reigns for two years over Israel. Uh he's he's he's wicked like Ahab was before his short lived pseudo-repentance, in that he's an open veil worshipper and he's openly provoking the Lord to anger. So what do we make of all this? Well, the Lord reigns in the affairs of nations and in the lives of men. And the church, which is really what's Israel and Judah are the Old Testament church. The church needs to be faithful to her King, Christ, to his law, the Word of God, to his way by walking in the Spirit, if we're going to be what God wants us to be We need to listen to his word, even if we don't want to hear it, even if it's like, oh, that's never what I want to hear. It's not about what we want to hear, it's about what God has spoken We need to hear it. You know, one way to do that is to make sure you're reading the whole of the Bible. You're studying the whole of the Bible. You're not just flipping and dipping and picking up little verses and promises and and precious things that you want to hear. We need to hear the whole counsel of God. We need to be faithful to the whole counsel of God. Even when the counsel of God tells us to do things that we might not want to do because they're inconvenient or they don't go along with our plans, we need to obey. the Lord in our personal lives and even more so within the church. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this chapter of your Holy Word. Would you please write it on our hearts? Would you please stir us up? That we would love you and want to obey all of your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That's 1 Kings 22. Thanks for joining me for that. And again, as always, of course, I hope you have a very blessed day. The Lord.