Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We have come to 1 Kings chapter 19, day 476 of our three-year journey through God's Word. This is a a key turning point we've come to again in the books of Kings. 1 and 2 Kings really one book in two volumes. And that we get the turning point here in this chapter from the ministry of Elijah to the ministry of Elisha. And It's a it's a challenging passage. This is a familiar passage. Um you've probably heard of this passage before. You may have heard preaching and teaching on this passage before. Uh but I think a lot of times uh Pastors can be guilty of maybe spinning this one a little bit to say what they want it to say and not paying attention to what's actually being said and and a lot of the surrounding um storyline is is somewhat confusing. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help, and then we'll dig into this portion of His Word together this morning. Heavenly Father, your word is perfect. It is exactly what we need. It is sufficient to make us what you would have us be by your Spirit through your Son, as you reveal your word to us and you write it on our hearts and you shape us to be more like Christ. So, Father, we pray that you would use your word, make it clear to our understanding, make our hearts tender to receive it, and grow us in it, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, 1 Kings chapter 19. Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done. and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying So may the gods do to me and more also, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by this time tomorrow. Then he was afraid, and he arose and ran for his life, and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a broom tree, and he asked that he might die. saying, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am no better than my father's. And he lay down and slept under a broom tree. And behold, an angel touched him and said to him, Arise and eat. And he looked, and behold, there was at his head a cake, baked on hot stones, and a jar of water. He ate and drank and lay down again And the angel of the Lord came again a second time and touched him and said, Arise and eat, for the journey is too great for you. And he arose and ate and drank and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb, the mountain of God. There he came to a cave and lodged in it. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him and said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah? He said, I have been very jealous for the Lord, the God of hosts, for the people of Israel have forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars. and killed your prophets with the sword, and I, even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. And he said, Go out and stand on the mount before the Lord. And behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind tore the mountains. and broke it in pieces, broke in pieces the rocks before the Lord, but the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake And after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire, and after the fire the sound of a low whisper. And when Elijah heard it, he wrapped his face in his cloak and went out and stood at the entrance of the cave. And behold, there came a voice to him and said, What are you doing here, Elijah? He said, I have been very jealous for the Lord, the God of hosts. For the people of Israel have forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword, and I, even I only, am left, and they seek my life to take it away. And the Lord said to him, Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus, and when you arrive, you shall anoint Haziel to be king over Syria. And Jehu, the son of Nimshe, you shall anoint to be king over Israel, and Elijah the son of Shaphet of Abom Nehola you shall anoint to be prophet in your place. And the one who escapes from the sword of Hazel shall Jehu put to death, and the one who escapes from the sword of Jehu shall Elisha put to death. So he departed from there, and found Elisha, the son of Shaphet, who was ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen in front of him. and he was with the twelfth. Elijah passed by him and cast his cloak upon him, and he left his oxen and ran after Elijah, and said, Let me kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow you. And he said to him, Go back again, for what have I done to you? And he returned from following him, and took the yoke of oxen, and sacrificed them, and boiled their flesh with the yokes of the oxen and gave it to the people, and they ate. Then he arose and went after Elijah and assisted him. Well that is 1 Kings chapter 19. And like I said, you probably have heard portions of that, right? The low whisper. Some translations render that as a still small voice, which is very f famous both most famous part of this passage. So this is right after the confrontation with the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel and Ahab goes back and tells his wife, Ahab is kind of ruled by his wife, really. Jezebel wears the pants and the family we would say, and she is clearly the one who's calling the shots, she's the one who's had the prophets of the Lord put to death, she's the one who's established Baal worship. to be so prominent in the land. She's the one who's persecuted uh worshippers of Yahweh. And so she is incensed at what Elijah has done. She's probably also incensed at her husband for allowing it to happen. But she kind of putting her husband in his place is like, I'm going to show you who the man is around here. And she is resolved that she is going to Make the life of Elijah like the life of one of the 450 prophets of Baal who were killed at Mount Carmel by this time tomorrow. And what does Elijah do? Well, what does Elijah not do? He doesn't seek the Lord. He doesn't ask the Lord what he should do. He doesn't trust the Lord. He doesn't go right up to Jezebel and say, Here I am, I am the servant of the Lord, you may do to me as you please. No, none of that. He is afraid and he runs. He runs for his life. And he comes to Beersheba in Judah, which is a pretty good distance away. He's out of Israel, he's down in Judah, he's down in the other kingdom. And he's run there as a as a like a madman running for his life. And he leaves his servant there, and then he goes himself a day's journey into the wilderness and he he he asks the Lord to take his life. He just says It's enough now, Lord, take away my life. I am no better than my father's. And God, in his grace, meets him there with something that Elijah does not deserve. Elijah has been greatly used by God. He has declared that there would be no rain, and there was no rain for three and a half years He then declared that there was going to be rain, and there was great rain. He stood on the top of Mount Carmel and watched four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal wail and scream and cut themselves. And then he saw fire come down from heaven and consume the sacrifice and the water and the wood and the stones and the dust. He has seen the Lord do miracles of raising the dead and of providing food miraculously for years. He has He has spoken the word of the Lord, he has seen the Lord work, and yet he is terrified of Queen Jezebel, and he is wanting to die. He's giving up. He's not trusting in the Lord. But God meets him and God is gracious to him. And God is drawing him out, is trying to teach him. So he feeds him. The angel of the Lord comes. This could be the Lord Jesus. I think almost always when we see the angel of the Lord in the Old Testament, we need to probably think that it is Jesus, unless we have something in the text It makes it clear that it it couldn't be for some reason, right? But this is the angel of the Lord, and he comes to Elijah. Now we want to see some parallels with Christ, but kind of reverse parallels. Christ was forty days in the desert wilderness, fasting, eating and drinking nothing. Then he was tested by Satan, who tempted him. And then after that, angels came and ministered to him, probably bringing him food and water so that he could be refreshed after he went through the 40 days and after Here we have kind of an anticipation of what happened to Christ, but in reverse. We have Christ coming here and feeding Elijah well. Right? This supernaturally provided cake and jug of water twice. This cake was probably really good stuff, right? Like mana but but big and And so he takes it and he it's enough strength to go 40 days and 40 nights into the desert, and he goes to Horeb, which is the mountain. Mountain of God, a direct and intentional reference back to Moses because he goes to the mountain He goes to the mountain where the Lord met with Moses and gave him the law of God. That's what Mount Horeb is. It's also called Mount Sinai. It's the same mount. It's the mountain of God. And so he goes there, and there's a cave, and he goes and he lodges in the cave. And the word of the Lord comes to him and asks him what he's doing there. In other words, why have you run away from Israel? Why are you fleeing, Jezebel? Why have I, the Lord, led you out here? So instead of being tempted by Satan after 40 days, he's being taught by the Lord. But he doesn't learn the lesson. And that's very evident in the fact that Elijah says the same thing twice. He doesn't learn the lesson that God has for him. It's very interesting, very challenging. to understand what this passage is saying to us. Why are you here? I've been very jealous for the Lord, the God of hosts. The people of Israel have forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars, killed your prophets with the sword. I even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. It's almost like, Lord, what are you gonna do? If I get killed, because I'm the last prophet of the Lord, I'm the last one in all of Israel who hasn't bowed the knee to Baal, who hasn't given in to this Jezebel led Baal worship. I am the sole man of God, and what are you gonna do if if they take my life? I had to run away. You know, I'm the only one standing for you. No, he's not the only one. And sometimes God is at work in ways that Elijah can't see. So this whole test of go out on the mountain and stand before the Lord. First of all, it's interesting that God tells him, go out and stand on the mount before the Lord. And we have uh the strong wind and with then we have the earthquake and then we have the fire but Elijah's not standing out on the mount at this point he's still hiding in the cave And when the low whisper comes, or the still small voice comes, and he hears it, And he knows that that is the presence of the Lord. He goes out and he wraps his face in his cloak. And he goes out and stands. It's very curious behavior. Why didn't he go out right away? But I do think part of what God has communicated to Elijah here, I'm not sure I fully understand everything in this passage, to be honest with you. But I think part of what Elijah is being communicated with from God is that sometimes God is at work. in ways that are not easily seen or heard or felt. The powerful ones, the mighty ones. the Ahabs and Jezebels and the prophets of Baal and their large schools and the hundreds who eat at the king and queen's table, that's not where God's at work. We find out later God tells him there's 7,000 people in Israel who have not bowed the knee to Baal. 7,000 people. Elijah's not the only one. God's word goes forth. It's a low whisper, it's a still small voice, but his word goes forth And his word is effective. His word accomplishes the purpose for which he sends it. In this case, he has called and he has sanctified a holy remnant of 7,000 people. Anyway, after the Lord is in the still small voice, he asks Elijah after this demonstration of here's great wind, here's great earthquake, here's great fire. I'm not in those things. I'm in the still small voice. I'm in the low whisper. He asks Elijah again, so why are you here? And I think at this point Elijah is supposed to repent. That's the way I read it. He shouldn't just say the same thing over again as though God hasn't done anything. And I think it's rather obvious that Elijah is in the wrong. by running away from Jezebel and by wanting to die and by declaring that he's the only one who's serving the Lord. I think it's clear that he's in the wrong. So I think he's supposed to repent, and I think he fails to do so. And the parallel to Moses is very interesting that he's taken to this mountain that we haven't been at in the story of the Old Testament. We really, really haven't been at this mountain since Moses. And again, on the Mount of Transfiguration, by the way, who appears with Jesus, Moses and Elijah? Let's hold that thought off for a second, just preview of where we're going with this. What happened to Moses? He met with God on Mount Horeth. He he he there was thunder and there was lightning and there was cloud smoke on the mountain. And he heard from God and he received the word of God on the mountain. And then what happened to Moses? He failed, didn't he? He struck the rock twice when he was only supposed to speak to it, and he said to the people, Shall we make water come out of this rock? He steals glory from God, he makes it all about himself, and he acts impetuously What's Elijah doing here? Stealing glory from God. God had done this great thing on Mount Carmel, but Elijah doesn't even believe it to stick around and face Jezebel. He's making it all about himself. I even I only am left. And he's acting impetuously. He's acting out of out of fear. Moses was acting out of anger and a temper, but he's acting out of fear. Not good. I think this is Elijah's failure. And just like then Moses had to turn things over to Joshua to lead the people into the promised land, Elijah is going to have to turn things over to Elisha. to carry on the prophetic ministry in Israel. He's got to pass on the torch. He's got to pass on the cloak, actually, and the staff to another successor. Just as Moses was unable to lead the people of God into the promised land because of his failure, Elijah is unable to finish the prophetic ministry that God's given him. He's got to anoint Elisha to take it over from him. And so I think what we have here is is really the failure of Elijah. And so isn't it so gracious, isn't it so wonderfully gracious, that when Peter, James, and John are brought up on the Mount of Transfiguration, who do they see there with Jesus, testifying to who Jesus is? But Moses, who represents the law, and Elijah, who represents the prophets. And these two men, despite their failings, By God's grace, they are able to stand as the law and the prophets and bear witness to who Jesus is. But notice they're pointing to Jesus when Peter makes the mistake and says, Oh Lord, let us make three tabernacles here, one for you, one for Moses, one for Elijah, trying to sort of put them all in an equal God speaks from heaven and says, This is my beloved son, with whom I have well pleased. Listen to him. In other words, here's one who's greater than Moses, here's one who's greater than Elijah, because Moses ultimately failed, and Elijah ultimately failed, but Jesus never fails. Jesus is the law and the prophet. He is the fulfillment of the word of God and the righteousness of God. He is our prophet, priest, and king. and the one who never fails. And so Elijah's failure points us beyond himself. Elijah is one of the great figures in the Old Testament, but ultimately he too is a sinner and he too needs salvation. Now very quickly, because we're going kind of long, he sees Elisha, and it's very significant that Elisha is, uh, he has 12 yoke of oxen. That is a pretty substantial number of oxen that Elisha has. Um It's a lot. Okay. And so uh but they what what do they represent? I think just like the twelve stones of the altar from the last chapter, they represent the people of God. And here's Elisha managing These twelve yokes of yokes of oxen and uh he's the one that God's gonna call and God's he's gonna run after Elijah and assist him, and then Elijah is going to e anoint him. So this is how we see Elijah's triumph and then Elijah's failure, and it points us to Christ, the greater prophet. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that despite our failings, you are so gracious to us, just as you were so gracious to Elijah. We thank you that you treat us with love and kindness and mercy and grace. We thank you that Jesus is the perfect prophet, the perfect fulfillment of the law, the perfect King. And he is everything we need. So help us to trust in Jesus, we pray. In his name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's 1 Kings chapter 19. And um I believe Mike is going to be with us tomorrow for first Kings chapter twenty. Have a blessed day in the Lord.