Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And we've come to day 470 in our three-year journey through God's Word. And that brings us to 1 Kings 21. So we're back to 1 Kings today. After a couple of Psalms yesterday, let's pray and ask the Lord's help. in this chapter today. Heavenly Father, we look to you because this is your word and we are your people and we need your help. We need your Holy Spirit to guide our time in your word. Make us faithful to your word. Help us to think the right thoughts and to understand your word clearly and also to respond to your word in faith. We pray that you would help us in this way. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So we come today to 1 Kings 21. I just want to give you a heads up about 1 Kings 20. And that is that Mike Talercio uh decided to do a a a redo of 1 Kings 20. He uh realize some of the things he said in his explanation of first Kings 20 were not exactly accurate or helpful. So he's kind of done a redo of that. So um if you get a chance you can go back and re-listen. uh to the new uh and improved 1 Kings 20 uh that's been posted and so hopefully that will be helpful to you. Here is 1 Kings chapter 21 Now Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard in Jezreel, beside the palace of Ahab, king of Samaria. And after this Ahab said to Naboth, Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden, because it is near my house, and I will give you a better vineyard for it, or if it seems good to you, I will give you its value in money. But Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord forbid that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers. And Ahab went into his house, vexed at the And he lay down on his bed, and he turned away his face, and would eat no food. But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, Why is your spirit so vexed that you eat no food? And he said to her, Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite, and said to him Give me your vineyard for money, or else, if it please you, I will give you another vineyard for it. And he answered, I will not give you my vineyard And Jezebel his wife said to him, Do you not do you now govern Israel? Arise and eat bread, and let your heart be cheerful. I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the J So she wrote letters in Ahab's name and sealed them with his seal, and she sent the letters to the elders and the leaders who lived with Naboth in his city. And she wrote in the letters, proclaim a fast, and set Naboth at the head of the people, and set two worthless men opposite him and let them bring a charge against him, saying, you have cursed God and the king. Then take him out and stone him to death. And the men of his city, the elders and the leaders who lived in that city, did as Jezebel had sent word to them. As it was written in the letters that she had sent to them, they proclaimed a fast and set Naboth at the head of the people. And the two worthless men came in and sat opposite him. And the worthless men brought a charge against Naboth in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth cursed God and the king. So they took him outside the city and stoned him to death with stones. Then they sent to Jezreel, saying, Naboth has been stoned, he is dead. And as soon as Jezebel sorry, sent word to Jezebel And as soon as Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. which he refused to give you for money, for Naboth is not alive, but dead. And as soon as Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, Ahab arose to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to take possession of Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Arise. Go down to meet Ahab, king of Israel, who is in Samaria. Behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth. where he has gone to take possession. And you shall say to him, Thus says the Lord, have you killed and also taken possession? And you shall say to him, Thus says the Lord, In the place where dogs licked up the blood of Naboth, shall dogs lick your own blood. Ahab said to Elijah, Have you found me, O my enemy? He answered, I have found you because you have sold yourself to do what is evil in the sight of the Lord. Behold, I will bring disaster upon you, I will utterly burn you up, and will cut off from Ahab every male, bond or free, in Israel And I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha, son of Ahijah, for the anger to which you have provoked me, and because you have made Israel to sin. And of Jezebel, the Lord also said, the dogs shall eat Jezebel within the walls of Jezreel. Any one belonging to Ahab who dies in the city, the dogs shall eat and any one of his who dies in the open country, the birds of the heavens shall eat. There was none who sold himself to do what was evil in the sight of the Lord, like Ahab whom Jezebel his wife incited. He acted very abominably in going after idols, as the Amorites had done And when Ahab heard these words, he tore his clothes and put sackcloth on his face flesh, and fasted, and lay in sackcloth, and went about dejectedly. And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Have you seen how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the disaster in his days. But in his son's days I will bring the disaster upon his house. That's a amazing mercy from God. And just a wonderful, shocking even picture of the grace of God that closes out 1 Kings 21 there 1 Kings 21 is uh is a story of one of the most um egregious acts committed by uh a king of Israel in terms of justice. Uh Uh this this should remind us somewhat of David and the incident with Bathsheba and Uriah the Hittite. in that Uriah had something that David wanted, not a vineyard, but his wife, and uh conspired to have Uriah the Hittite killed and that was a very great sin and it brought judgment, but David repented and God was was merciful and and set aside his sin, but there were consequences. uh for the nation, for that sin, and even for David's own household uh for time to come. But here we have uh Ahab and Jezebel And at first Ahab just asks Naboth, the Jezreelite, hey, I want your vineyard. I'll buy it from you. Or I'll give you another vineyard, a better one for it. And Naboth doesn't want to part with it. And the reason why Naboth doesn't want to part with it shows us the righteousness of Naboth. It's his father's inheritance. It's the land remember when the land was settled under Joshua and it w the tribal allotments were made, and then within those tribes they made the allotments to clans and families, and the land was inherited fathers to sons. This was God's gift to specific families and to specific lines to give them certain pieces of property. And Nabov saying, there's no way in the world I can do that In fact, he says, the Lord forbid that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers. He realizes that really it's not even his to to deal with, as though it only belongs to him personally. But it's an inheritance from the Lord that he's called to pass on to the descendants of his forefathers. He's part of a trust, part of a family line. How different that is from the way Ahab views his kingship Mike shared with us a couple of days ago in 1 Kings 20, you know, Ahab viewed his kingship really as a way for him to get rich. for him to get advantages for himself, the way he negotiated with Ben Hadad, king of Syria, after the Lord miraculously delivered Israel and gave him this supernatural victory over over Ben Hayda just showed that he just wanted to profit from being king. He was very self-serving. And here he is self-serving again. He just wants this vineyard. And why shouldn't he have the vineyard? He's the king. And Jezebel says this very interesting thing to him when she finds out what's going on. She says in verse 7, Do you now govern Israel? Arise and eat bread, and let your heart be cheerful, and I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite Now, this is so interesting. There's levels at which this one phrase, do you now govern Israel? First of all, the answer to that question is no. The Lord governs Israel Israel is the Lord's kingdom and the Lord's people. But on another level, she wants him to think, of course, that if he's the king, he can have whatever he wants. But also You also, I think there's an undertone where Jezebel is very used to manipulating the levers of power, even behind Ahab's back, because she says, I will give it to you. And so accustomed are the people in Israel to the fact that Jezebel's really the one who's in charge that The the letter comes in Ahab's name and sealed with his seal, but when they've done the dirty deed and taken care of Naboth, who do they send to? They send to Jezebel, verse 14, saying Naboth has been stoned. He is dead. You catch that? Here's a letter in Ahab's name. Sealed with Ahab's seal, giving the instructions of how to get rid of Naboth, and when they've done it, they send word back to Jezebel saying Naboth has been sealed. I think it shows that everybody in Israel kind of knows who who's really in charge, or who rather thinks they're not sure. in charge. So I think her little cutting question of do you now govern Israel is like, hey, what makes you think you're in charge anyway? I'm I'll take care of it for you. I I take care of everything around here. I'm the one who gets things done. Well Well, Jezebel is, of course, very, very wrong. She is not in charge, the Lord is in charge, and this evil deed that she has done will in fact come back on her own head. And so So she's she's given this uh well Elijah is given this word from the Lord to go and find Ahab, king of Israel, tells him where he is in Samaria, in the vineyard of Naboth. Where he's gone in to take possession. So he finds him. And Elijah makes it very clear the reason why he's able to find Ahab is because Ahab sold himself to do what is evil in the sight of the Lord. And the Lord's singled him out for judgment. But then Ahab repents. Jezebel doesn't repent. Jezebel is going to suffer this exact curse of verse twenty-three, the dogs shall eat Jezebel within the walls of Jezreel. And Ahab's family, his descendants will be judged, his house will be wiped out. But but the Lord is merciful to Ahab Because he repents. Does Ahab deserve it? No. I mean, we're told right here in verse 25, there's no one who's told himself to do what was evil in the sight of the Lord like Ahab, whom Jezebel his wife incited. There was no other king who did as much evil as Ahab. And yet, and yet he repented and God forgave him. You see, there's nothing that you and I can do that is so bad, so horrible, so sinful, so outlandish, that God is going to look at us and say. . . There's no forgiveness for you here. There's no salvation for you here. If you repent, if you seek the Lord. If you ask for mercy in the name of Jesus, the Lord will have mercy, on whom he will have mercy. He is the sovereign Lord, and he forgives great and grievous sins, the sin of David and having Uriah killed, the sin of Ahab and having Naboth killed, your sin in betraying the Lord and violating your conscience and and breaking your word and doing what you know is wrong, my sin and doing all those same things, they were all ultimately carried by Jesus Christ on the cross. And we can all be forgiven. That should also make us quicker to be forgiving people, because we know how much the Lord has forgiven us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for such mercy. Ahab doesn't deserve it. It almost feels like a cheat to us at this point that he would get away with it. But the fact is that we deserve child. Judgment too. We deserve your curse. We deserve your eternal wrath. And we have gotten away with it. We have been forgiven and released and set free because Jesus took it upon us. himself because Jesus bore our sins on the cross. Thank you for such a great salvation. Thank you for such full and free and rich forgiveness. Help us to walk in the grace of mercy free and full. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for 1 Kings 21. See you tomorrow for 1 Kings 22. Have a blessed day in the Lord.