Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Dummel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 474 of our three-year journey through God's Word, and we come today to 1 Kings chapter 18. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the truth of it. Thank you for the power that you display of your own holy character, your almighty power, your sovereign rule, and your grace to your people. Father, speak to us today through this wonderful chapter in your word. Help us to hear it, understand it, believe it, treasure it, and respond to you with love and obedience. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen First Kings chapter 18 After many days the word of the Lord came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go, show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth. So Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. Now the famine was severe in Samaria, and Ahab called Obadiah, who was over the household. Now Obadiah feared the Lord greatly. And when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the Lord, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in a cave, and fed them bread and water. And Ahab said to Obadiah Go through the land, to all the springs of water, and to all the valleys. Perhaps we may find grass and save the horses and mules alive and not lose some of the animals. So they divided the land between them to pass through it. Ahab went in one direction by himself, and Obadiah went in another direction by himself And as Obadiah was on the way, behold, Elijah met him. And Obadiah recognized him and fell on his face and said, Is it you, my lord Elijah? And he answered him, It is I. Go, tell your Lord, behold, Ah Elijah is here. And he said, How have I sinned? that you would give your servant into the hand of Ahab to kill me. As the Lord your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my Lord has not sent to seek you, and when they would say he is not here, he would take an oath of the kingdom or nation that they had not found you. And now you say, Go, tell your Lord, Behold Elijah is here, and as soon as I have gone from you, the Spirit of the Lord will carry you. I know not where. And so when I come and tell Ahab, and he cannot find you He will kill me, although I, your servant, have feared the Lord from my youth. Has it not been told, my Lord what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of the Lord, how I hid a hundred men of the Lord's prophets by fifties in a cave, and fed them with bread and water, and now you say, Go tell your Lord, Behold Elijah is here, and he will kill me And Elijah said, As the Lord of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I will surely show myself to him today. So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him. And Ahab went to meet Elijah. When Ahab saw Elijah, Ahab said to him, Is it you, you troubler of Israel? And he answered, I have not troubled Israel, but you have, you and your father's house, because you have abandoned the commandments of the Lord and followed the Baals. Now, therefore, send and gather all Israel to me at Mount Carmel, and the six hundred and the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal, and the four hundred prophets of Asherah, who eat at Jezebel's table. So Ahab sent to all the people of Israel and gathered the prophets together at Mount Carmel, and Elijah came near. to all the people and said, how long will you go on limping between two different opinions? Opinions. If the Lord is God, follow him. But if Baal, then follow him. And the people did not answer him a word. Then Elijah said to the prophets, I Even I only am left a prophet of the Lord, but Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men. Let two bowls be given to us And let them choose one bowl for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on the wood, but put no fire to it, and I will prepare the other bowl, and lay it on the wood, and put no fire to it. And you call upon the name of your God, and I will call upon the name of the Lord. And the God who answers by fire, he is God. And all the people answered, It is well spoken. Then Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, Choose for yourselves one bull and prepare it first, for you are many, and call upon the name of your God, but put no fire to it. And they took the bull that was given them, and they prepared it, and called upon the name of Baal from morning until noon, saying, Oh Baal, answer us But there was no voice, and no one answered, and they limped around the altar that they had made, and at noon Elijah mocked them Saying, Cry aloud, for he is a god. Either he is musing, or he is relieving himself, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep and must be awakened. And they cried aloud and and cut themselves after their custom with swords and lances until the blood gushed out upon them. And as midday passed they raved on until the time of the offering of the oblation, but there was no voice. No one answered, no one paid attention Then Elijah said to all the people, Come near to me. And all the people came near to him. And he repaired the altar of the Lord that had been thrown down. Elijah took twelve stones. according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob to whom the word of the Lord came, saying, Israel shall be your name. And with the stones he built an altar in the name of the Lord, and he made a trench about the altar, as great as would contain two sias of seed. And he put the wood in order and cut the bowl in pieces and laid it on the wood. And he said fill four jars with water, and pour it on the burnt offering and on the wood. And he said, Do it a second time. And they did it a second time. And he said, Do it a third time. And they did it a third time. And the water ran around the altar and filled the trench also with water. And at the time of the offering of the oblation, Elijah the prophet came near and said, O Lord, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel Let it be known this day that you are God in Israel, and that I am your servant, and that I have done all these things at your word. Answer me, O Lord, answer me that this people may know that you, O Lord, are God, and that you have turned their hearts back. Then the fire of the Lord fell. and consumed the burnt offering and the wood and the stones and the dust and licked up the water that was in the trench. And when all the people saw it they fell on their faces and said, The Lord He is God! The Lord He is God! And Elijah said to them, Seize the prophets of Baal, let not one of them escape. And they seized them And Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon and slaughtered them there. And Elijah said to Ahab, Go up, eat, and drink, for there is a sound of the rushing of rain. So Ahab went up to eat and drink, and Elijah went up to the top of Mount Carmel, and he bowed himself to the earth, and put his face between his knees, and he said to his servant, Go now, look toward the sea. And he went up and looked, and said, There is nothing. And he said, Go again, seven times. And at the seventh time he said, Behold, a little cloud like a man's hand is rising from the sea. And he said, Go up, say to Ahab, prepare your chariot and go down, lest the rain stop you. And in a little while, while the heavens grew black with clouds and wind, there was a great rain, and Ahab rode and went to Jezreel. And the hand of the Lord was on Elijah, and he gathered up his garments and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel. That's 1 Kings chapter 18. Very, very famous chapter, one of the great chapters in Scripture. Of course, all scripture is God breathed and is profitable to us, but Some chapters stand out for drama or for intense displays of God's sovereign power Here we have a very, very sad time in Israel, a horribly tragic, unfaithful time in Israel where All the prophets of the Lord had been kicked out of being supported in any way by the royal family, and in fact hunted down and persecuted. and many of them executed. You have this man Obadiah, who righteously sheltered a hundred of these prophets and fed them by fifties in a cave. We don't know whatever happened to those prophets. Elijah thinks that he's the only prophet of the Lord left. That may or may not be true, but that's what he thinks. And so what we know is that At the royal table in Samaria, where the king of Israel and his queen live, they are supporting 450. prophets of Baal and 400 prophetesses of Asherah or servants of Asherah. This is not a good time. You know, it began with the golden calves of Jeroboam and violence and treachery and now you have this widespread idolatry. And finally Elijah's been hiding from Ahab and Jezebel for years at this point, but finally he comes back and he's going to make a public appearance. And he makes a public appearance uh in a very strange way. He he appears first to Obadiah, and then he tells him, Go and tell Ahab. Uh Elijah is here. Obadiah is really freaked out. I mean he is panicked for his life. He cannot believe that Elijah's really gonna turn himself over to Ahab because Ahab and Jezebel have made it. very very clear that they want to kill Elijah. They're blaming Elijah for this drought that has been so severe that they're fearing fearing losing their livestock and there's been no reign in the land for three and a half years and it's just been terrible. And so he can't believe that Elijah's really going to turn himself over to Ahab who wants to take his life and so he figures he's going to go tell Ahab and when they come back to find Elijah's going to be gone. God will take him away and hide him who knows where because God's always going to protect his prophet. But Elijah makes it clear I am going to show myself to him today And so Obadiah goes and gets Ahab, and Ahab comes and meets Elijah. And then this great confrontation with the prophets of Baal. You see People will generally go along with whatever those who are in power, or those who are the influencers, or those who are the prominent people, whatever they say. People are very sheepish. They kind of go along with prevailing public opinions. Uh we see this in just the changing tide of public opinion that's happened in America over the past, say, ten to twelve years, about a whole bunch of core issues of life that people would have thought one way ten years ago and now they think the complete opposite way. If you would have gone back ten years and told people that this is the majority opinion in America about this, that or the other issue, they would have said That's crazy. There's no way in the world that things would have gotten up to be that that point. But, you know, that's that's what's happened. And things can happen that way because people just follow after the changing currents and tides. of fashions and trends. And right now Bale is it, man. Bale and Asherah, they're the ones who are the hot items and everybody's going after them and everybody who's anybody is is on the Bale train and You just don't want to be left behind. Well, Elijah's going to show them how wrong they are. Because most Israelites would not have denied the Lord at this point point. They wouldn't have said, we don't like the Lord. We're not going to worship the Lord anymore. They kind of kept quiet about it because they knew that Jezebel really didn't like people who were serving the Lord. But they were still Israelites and, you know, there's there were still the golden calves that at uh Dan and Bethel and they still remember Jeroboam and they've heard the stories of David and they've heard the stories of Moses and Abraham and so they know that this is their heritage, this is what where they've come from, and so they're they're doing what what Elijah calls limping between two opinions. They've got one foot in the world and one foot in the kingdom of God. They've got one foot following Baal and one foot trying to follow the Lord. And when they're confronted about, hey, you need to make a decision. Either the Lord is God, either Yahweh is God, and so you follow him, Arael is God, and you follow him, the people didn't answer a word, it says in verse 2 The people did not answer a word. They could not speak because they were paralyzed by the contradiction of their own worldview. So Elijah makes it very clear, you can't serve two masters. You can't follow two gods. You can't say the Lord is God and Baal is God. It's got to be one or the other. And this wonderful display of God's power. Elijah builds this altar with twelve stones. First of all, it's the altar of the Lord that had been thrown down. This is uh repairing, right? Repairing a place where Yahweh had been worshipped. And He's putting twelve stones there to represent the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel and he's having them pour out three they're pour out four water jars three times. In other words, twelve water jars, again representing the twelve tribes. of the people of God. And this is very important because where did northern Israel's problems of false worship start? They started with the golden calves under Jeroboam. which was an attempt to to make a schism among the people of God, to say these two tribes and these ten tribes are going to do something separate. They're going to be different. Elijah's bringing back together the twelve tribes and the twelve stones and the twelve jars of water, and it's about the unity of one people of God and one Lord who is God of All. And it's at the time of the offering of the oblation. Very significant. That's the time When in God's law there would be the offering up of the sacrifice. And this is the time that God chooses to show himself to his people. And fire comes down and consumes not only the offering, but it consumes The wood and the stones and the dust and the water. It consumes. Think about this. Fire comes down and consumes stones and dust. and water. We just gone. No wonder, verse 39, when the people saw it, they fell on their faces and said, The Lord He is God. Lord He is God. There was no mistaking. Baal was not a real God. They'd spent hours and hours praying and cutting themselves. Elijah does this elaborate ceremony to soak everything with water. But then one simple prayer, and God answers in such dramatic and overwhelming power. This is what the Lord does. The Lord shows himself to his people. And there is a price to be paid. A lot of our modern readers, when they hear Elijah saying, seize the prophets of Baal, Let not one of them escape. They say, oh come on, why can't we just have religious pluralism? Why can't we have just everybody do their own thing? Because Israel was God's holy people. This is the church of God in the Old Testament. This isn't Israel doesn't correspond to a modern day nation-state like America or Great Britain or whatever. It's it's the kingdom of God on earth. It's the church. in the Old Testament age. And so this rank idolatry to be openly accepted and celebrated in the land is absolutely wrong and it does call for the death penalty and that's what the law had said and that's what everybody knew and so these prophets have Baal are slaughtered because they have blatantly and selfishly dishonored the Lord and been participants in the slaughter and persecution of God's true prophets. And then the rain comes. Seven times, go and look for a cloud. There's nothing. And then the last time, a little man's hand rising from the sea. That's the rain. And in faith he says to Ah Prepare your chariot and go down before the rain stops you. I love the last part of this. Elijah, he outruns the chariot. He gathers up his garment and he runs and he gets to Jezreel before the chariot. Just a wonderful end to this chapter. Now we'll see in a couple of days when we get back to chapter 19 that this isn't the end of the struggle. But we'll get there in a couple of days. For today, what we see is that God shows up majestically and powerfully to rescue his people. Well, how do we take this? Well, what we need to understand is there is one God The creator of everything, who sustains everything, who has all power, who gives us the truth in his word, who sets uh salvation in his son. He is the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through him. We have confidence in what Jesus has done because he did miracles publicly, he rose from the dead publicly. Everything's been done outside. In the open. The Lord has demonstrated repeatedly throughout history his greatness and his power. We can have confidence and believe in him. We can trust him and we can proclaim him to a world that needs to hear. It's not okay to just worship whatever God you feel like worshiping. There is one true God and one way of salvation, and you must come to the Lord through Jesus Christ. for salvation. We need to stand like Elijah. We may not get a miracle from heaven in a sign and wonder. There's already been a greater miracle from heaven in the sign of Jesus Christ and his death and resurrection. We need to boldly proclaim and we need to faithfully stand. Even when we're outnumbered, 450 to 1, even when the tide of popular opinion has gone against Christ, we need to say Christ is. Lord. Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you for being our God and our Father, for saving us, for keeping us, for loving us. Help us to be a bold and faithful people. In the midst of a crooked generation. Help us to shine like stars as we hold forth the word of life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's 1 Kings chapter 18. Tomorrow we're going to be back in the book of Acts. I hope you can join me for that, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.