Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 470 of our three-year journey through God's Word, our 105th day of year two of three. So we're making our way through God's Word one chapter at a time. We come to 1 Kings chapter 15 today. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to his word together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word full of truth. Revealing your heart to us, showing us our need for you, ultimately leading us to Christ. We pray that you would do the work. that you have appointed for your word today in our hearts and lives, that it might not return empty, but it would bear fruit and would accomplish the purpose for which you send it. So send forth your word by your Spirit into our hearts, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. 1 Kings 15 Now, in the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, Abijem began to reign over Judah. He reigned for three years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Maiacah, the daughter of Abishalom And he walked in all the sins that his father did before him, and his heart was not wholly true to the Lord his God as the heart of David his father. Nevertheless, for David's sake, the Lord his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, setting up his son after him and establishing Jerusalem, because David did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, and did not turn aside from anything that he commanded him all the days of his life, except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite. Now there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life. The rest of the acts of Abijum And all that he did, are they not written in the books of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And there was war between Abaihem and Jeroboam And Abaihem slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David, and Asa his son reigned in his place. In the twentieth year of Jeroboam, king of Israel, Esau began to reign over Judah, and he reigned forty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Maiacah, the daughter of Abishelem, and Asa did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, as David his father had done. He put away the male cult prostitutes out of the land and removed the idols that his fathers had made He also removed Maiaca, his mother, from being Queen Mother, because she had made an abominable image for Asherah. And Asa cut down her image and burned it at the brook Kidron. But the high places were not taken away. Nevertheless, the heart of Asa was wholly true to the Lord all his days, and he brought into the house of the Lord the sacred gifts of his father, and his own sacred gifts, silver, gold, and vessels. And there was war between Asa and Baesha, king of Israel, all their days. Baesha, king of Israel, went up against Judah and built Ramah that he might permit no one to come to go out or come in to Asa, king of Judah. Then Asa took all the silver and gold that were left in the treasures of the house of the Lord, and all the treasures of the king's house, and gave them into the hands of his servants. And King Asa sent them to Ben-Hadad, the son of Tabrimon, the son of Heseon, king of Syria, who lived in Damascus, saying, Let there be a covenant between me and you, as there was between my father and your father. Behold, I am sending to you a present of silver and gold. Go, break your covenant with Baesha, king of Israel, that he may withdraw from me. And Ben Hadad listened, to King Asa, and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of Israel, and conquered Iun, Dan Abel Bethmecah and all Kineroth, with all the land of Nephtali. And when Baeshah heard of it, he stopped building Rhema, and he lived at Tirzah. Then King Asa made a proclamation to all Judah, none was exempt, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber, with which Baesha had been building, and with which King Asa built Gibah of Benjamin. and Mizpah. Now the rest of the Acts of Esau, all his might and all that he did, and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? But in his old age he was diseased in his feet, and Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried in with his fathers in the city of David, his father. and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place. Nadab, the son of Jeroboam, began to reign over Israel in the second year of Esa, king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel two years. He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the way of his father, and in his sin which he made Israel sin. Baesha, the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, conspired against him, and Baesha struck him down at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines. For Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbathon. So Baasha killed him in the third year of Asa King of Judah, and reigned in his place. And as soon as he was king, he killed all the house of Jeroboam. He left to the house of Jeroboam not one that breathed until he had destroyed it. according to the word of the Lord that he spoke by his servant Ahijah the Shilanite. It was for the sins of Jeroboam that he had sinned, and that he had made Israel to sin. and because of the anger to which he had provoked the Lord the God of Israel. Now the rest of the acts of Nadab and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? And there was war between Asa and Baeshah, king of Israel, all their days. In the third year of Asa, King of Judah, Baeshah the son of Ahijah, began to reign over all Israel at Terzah, and he reigned twenty-four years. He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin, which he made Israel to sin. Well, we're in 1 Kings 15, and this can be a little bit tricky to follow because the way the narration is set up. We cover one king in northern Israel, and then we go down and cover the next king in southern Judah, and then we go up north and cover the next king in northern Israel, come back south, and the Of course, they have different lengths of reins and they overlap at different times, and so we're told when one begins and when the other ends. But it can still be a little bit confusing to follow exactly who's following who and what year it is and which king is against which king. We just have to pay attention to the names and the fact that the names are unfamiliar to us. makes it uh even more confusing. So sometimes it's easier to look at a chart that kind of lays things out for us. to sort of help orient our minds to where we are. And I found this one from Nathan Richardson at NathanRichardson. com. And this is a genealogy of the Kings of Judah and Israel. I'd recommend going to his website, NathanRichardson. com, looking for this genealogy of the kings of Judah and Israel, and you can see that it gives you the different lines. So on the far left You have Saul and his son Ish bosheth. That's the first dynasty. But then of course David takes over after that. And Judah is ruled by the Davidic dynasties. You see one line from David to Solomon to Rehoboam to Abijah to Asa to Jehoshaphat, and that's as far as we got in in this chapter, but then we're going to go on to Jehoram Ehza Sorry, Ahaziah, Joash, Amaziah, Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah, Manasseh, Amon, Jo Josiah. And then you have this weird thing that happens when the Babylonians come in and that Jehoiakim and Jehoiakim, but then they kind of get deported and replaced with Jehoahaz and Zedekiah. Meanwhile, the the light blue over here is the northern kingdom of Israel, and they go through one dynasty after another because they're so unfaithful, and there's no covenant that God has made with them like the covenant with David. And so you just get a couple of generations, and then their unfaithfulness is judged. So Jeroboam I, who set up the golden calves at Dan and Bethel His son Nadab just reigns for a short period of time and then Baesha comes and kills all of the line of Jeroboam. And his son Elah comes, but because Baeesha does all the same things wrong that Jeroboam had done, his line is wiped out, Zimri briefly becomes king, and then Omri uh who fathers the most notorious king of Israel, Ahab and his even more notorious wife, Queen Jezebel, and then they have Joram, um, and then Jehu takes over uh and you have uh this continuation. So um this kind of helps you to orient a little bit where we are, um, but I will grant to you that it is not always easy to follow who follows who and who's reigning at the same time as who. But a chart like this can be helpful for that. But what I want to do more importantly is to focus on on the Word of God, on the passage itself, and what it teaches us about these kings. and ultimately how it points us to Christ and then how we can learn ourselves from these kings. So while Jeroboam is reigning, Jeroboam has a relatively long reign, in his 18th year, Rehoboam dies, and Rehoboam's son, Abijim. becomes king over Judah. He only reigns for three years. And you'll notice that Asa, who comes after, is a brother. Because he's got the same mother, Maica, daughter of Abishalem. And so he's got the same mother, and so it's uh Abaijam and then it's his brother Asa. Allow me to interrupt myself here for a second. I think I made a mistake there. Abaijam and Asa were more likely father and son, even though Maica is listed as the mother of both of them. She was more likely Asa's grandmother. The same Hebrew word can be understood to mean mother or grandmother, just as Abijim could be said to be a son of David, or David could be their father. In most genealogies, they are listed as father and son and not as brothers. Abijem is not a good king. Uh he's doing all sorts of bad things. So after Solomon, you remember Solomon had brought in uh foreign wives. He had seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines. And many of his wives were foreigners who worshipped other gods, and he allowed them to set up shrines to their gods just to the east outside of Jerusalem and then he himself, even in his older age, went to go and worship before these false gods. Well that spread so that his son Rehoboam, who was a foolish young man, expanded this and there were male cult prostitutes. and there were all sorts of ugly things that were brought in under Rehoboam, and those things continue under Abaijim. So Abaihem is judged Because he is horribly unfaithful to the Lord. Now, what I think is interesting here is how gracious God is in talking about David in verse 5. Really, verses four and five. Nevertheless, for David's sake, the Lord his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, setting up his son after him and establishing Jerusalem, because David did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, and did not turn aside from everything that he had commanded him all the days of his life, except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite. Now we could point to lots of other sins in David's life, including as he was king. Remember he took the census at the end of his life, and that was not faithful to the Lord. But David was a man after God's own heart. Despite his fleshly failings, uh despite his adultery and conspiracy to commit murder, when he was confronted with that sin, he was repentant. And when he did the census and he was confronted with that sin, he was repentant. And I really think that's one of the keys. David's heart was a heart for the Lord because it was a repentant heart. Martin Luther very famously when he began the Reformation, he wasn't really trying to start the Reformation, but when he posted the 95 Theses on the church door in Wittenberg, Germany on October 31, 1517, there were 95 statements or assertions, thesis statements, the 95 theses. And the first one was, when our Lord Jesus called us to repent, he meant that the whole of the Christian life is to be a life of repentance. And so David is a good example of that. Yes, he was foolish, he was sinful at times, he was impulsive and destructive, but he was repentant when he was confronted with his sin, and he truly loved the Lord. And so God, seeing through David he was going to bring his son into the world, the greater son of David, the Lord Jesus Christ, he keeps a lamp. in Jerusalem for the sake of that Davidic covenant which ultimately is about Christ and is pointing to Christ. Asa comes along and he's a much better king than uh Abai and he is He is putting away all of the idolatry. He's cleaning house, right? And he's gonna reign for forty-one years. He even removes his own mother from being Queen Mother. Now that's a bold move. So often we can be timid. And shy and half-hearted when it comes to being faithful to the Lord, especially if it puts us in a situation where we might offend a family member. Think of how many times you have not spoken the truth or you've not shared the gospel. Or you've not followed the conviction of your own heart in obedience to the Lord, because doing so might offend a member of your family. Now I'm not talking about being offensive, about being rude, about being, you know, arrogant and self-righteous. That's a whole nother thing. But I'm talking about where we we swallow our own convictions and we don't speak the truth in love and we don't live according to our own convictions because we don't want to offend someone in our family. Here, Asa removes his own mother from being Queen Mother because she had made an abominable image for Asher. He said, No, we're not going to have any of this idolatry. in God's kingdom. This is the Lord's kingdom, and you are you are out. That's a pretty bold move. He gets rid of all the idolatry, and you might wonder, verse 14 says the high places were not taken away. Those high places, they were not good, but those were high places where people were worshiping Yahweh. They were worshiping the Lord but not at the temple. And they were spread throughout Judah. And really the only kings who are going to go so far as to remove even the high places dedicated to Yahweh There's going to be um Hezekiah and Josiah. So those are the only two kings, Hezekiah and Josiah, who are going to go that far as to remove even those high places. But Asa's a pretty good king. Uh he's pretty faithful to the Lord. His heart, it says, it says, nevertheless, the heart of Asa was wholly true to the Lord all his days. And he contributes to the house of the Lord. But then, but then, what does he do? Well, he feels threatened by Beesha, the king of Israel, who has built up this fortified tower, this fortress that overlooks this main trade route and uh was called Rahmine. It's in a in a very pr strategic place where basically you have to pass through this valley to move from Israel into Judah. And Baish is trying to control the traffic through that valley and this puts Asa in a weak position, in a threatened position. And out of fear He sends lots of money to Ben Hadad, king of Syria, and enters into an alliance with him Now the Lord doesn't openly condemn this move here in this chapter, and we're still told that the heart of Asa was wholly true to the Lord all his days. But we know from other scripture, allowing scripture to interpret scripture, that these kinds of moves were frowned upon by the Lord, and it's what we don't see Asa doing. Asa's heart is to the wholly true to the Lord, but what does he not do? He doesn't seek the Lord. He doesn't pray and cry out to the Lord and make intercession. We'll see a later descendant of Asa, Jehoshaphat, who will do this. when he's threatened, but Asa doesn't do that. He turns to an earthly political solution, not explicitly sinful in and of itself Ben-Hadad didn't say, well, I'll come to your rescue if you put one of my gods up as a shrine in Jerusalem. There was nothing like that, but it was still an earthly, pragmatic, political solution. And that was not good. So where can we see Christ in this chapter? We can see Christ as, of course, the greater king The king who is perfect in all of his ways. The king who is never afraid, his rule is never threatened, he's never wringing his hands and wondering, oh, what does he have to do to protect his kingdom? He is King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the Alpha and the Omega, the one who lives and reigns forevermore. He is the greater king, and he's our king. And so what we see for us is that we need to have a heart that is wholly true to the Lord. And we need to be faithful to him because he's been faithful to us, and we need to trust him because he has all power to save us and keep us. We don't need to compromise with the world. We don't need to seek after earthly political power. We don't need to compromise our convictions or Pull back from sharing the gospel because we're afraid of offending people. We need to be faithful servants and faithful ambassadors and faithful citizens. of King Jesus in this world. And that's where our hearts need to be within the Church of Jesus Christ, which is his kingdom on earth. It's no longer an earthly geopolitical entity with an army fighting battles on on battlefields. It's now the kingdom of God manifested in the church, preaching the gospel, making disciples, taking the light of God's grace into the darkness of this world. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for your kingdom. Thank you for your Son, our Savior. Would you please make us more faithful to you? Help us to walk in your ways. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for 1 Kings 15. Tomorrow we're going to move right on to 1 Kings 16. Hope you can join me then. Have a blessed day in the Lord.