Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Lemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you on this 1053rd day, day to 1053. We are in 1 Peter chapter 3. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good, and your word is true, and it is profitable to us. Your teaching benefits us. When we receive your word by faith and respond to it in love and obedience. So help us to do that. Teach us by your Holy Spirit and soften and prepare our hearts to receive your word with thankfulness. and faith. In Jesus' name. Amen. First Peter chapter three. Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, they may be one without a word. By the conduct of their wives. When they see your respectful and pure conduct, do not let your adorning be external The braiding of hair, the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing you wear, but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a quiet and gentle soul Even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. And you are her children if you do good and do not fear anything that Finally, all of you have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart. But on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. For whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from Speaking deceit, let him turn away from evil and do good, let him seek peace and pursue it. Now, who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness Defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you, yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience. So that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will. than for doing evil. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water, baptism which corresponds to this now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body, but as an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him. That is first Peter chapter three. There's a wonderful chapter here in 1 Peter, but there's some difficult things to deal with, so we have some more sort of thorny issues to deal with. So we open up with Peter's version of the household codes. The household codes were instructions from the apostles on how Christian husbands and wives are to live together. And we find them in Ephesians. 5. We find them in Colossians, and we find them here in 1 Peter. And the pattern is very clear that wives are to submit to and respect their husbands, and husbands Are to love their wives. But it's important that the instruction, both to wives and to husbands, begins with the word likewise. And that means we have to go back to see what do you mean by likewise. So likewise, previous household codes were talking about servants being subject to their master. And previously to that, it's talking about being subject to the governing authority. So really we start in 213 with this whole section of godly submission And in the middle of this section, our example for godly submission is Christ. So the whole section from 213 To um to 3, 7 is all about godly submission, imitating Christ. So it's all Christians to the government. It's slaves, slaves to their masters, its wives to their husbands, and husbands to the needs of their wives. It's a different kind of submission, not necessarily to the will of your wife, but it's to the needs of your wife. And that key word likewise and likewise tells us we're still deep So it's not quite what some people teach of like a mutual submission where husbands and wives submit to one another sort of uh both deferring to the preferences of the other. That's not exactly right, but both are called to a a godly submission in Christ-like and Christ-honoring obedience. to God. So wives submit to their husbands by being respectful and pure. That's the real key here Verse 2, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. What does that mean? Well, respectful means to honor, to respect your husband. And then the pure conduct is not to be flirtatious toward other men or in any way sensual toward other men. So this is probably where this idea of don't let your adorning be ex The braiding of hair, putting on gold jewelry, the clothing you wear. This is with the idea that, hey, you want to look good so you can get other people's attention, so they can look at you. And see how good you look. Well, that's not really being pure in your conduct toward your husband. If you're trying to draw the eye of other men, even if it's just Jesus said, if you look at the woman's lust in your heart, you've committed adultery. Now, some modesty police types have taken this to an extreme and would practically have Christians wear some sort of burqa uh like the Muslim woman women wear. It's not to that extreme. It's just it's saying don't go to the extreme in the other direction. Don't don't make yourself up in a way that You're really focused on getting other people to look at you and think that you are good looking. Rather, you should care more about what's in your heart and what comes out of your mouth when you speak. So what is in your heart and what comes out of your mouth is the true sign of what your character is like, of Christ in you, of the work of God's grace in your soul, and that That should be what will draw people to Christ ultimately, and not just to be impressed by you and how you look. We're given the example of Sarah and Abraham. And some people have made a lot out of this. Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, and you are her children if you do good and do not fear anything that is. Frightening. If if you read Genesis and you read the relationship between between Sarah and Abraham, it was not a marriage where Sarah was slavishly obeying her husband. Obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. But she respected him, she loved him, she honored him, she trusted him. Sometimes that trust was misplaced. Sometimes she also was a sinner and led Abraham astray. such as when she made the suggestion that Abraham go into hip her um handmaid Hagar. So it wasn't a perfect marriage, but it was a relationship between two people who who respected each other and And as as Peter says to the husband, she's an heir with you of the grace of life. There's a co-equal relationship between husbands and wives. So the husbands are to live with their wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life. so that your prayers may not be hindered. This part of the household codes is the unusual part. Standard Greco-Roman ethics that would have been accepted as being sort of socially respectable and good ethical codes. They emphasized slaves submit to your masters, wives submit to your husbands. But what they didn't talk about was the obligation that masters Have toward their slaves and the obligations that husbands have toward their wives. It was uniquely Christian, uniquely Christian in the first century to talk about obligations that masters have toward their slaves to treat them with equality and dignity, and obligations that husbands have toward their wives, to love them, to live with them in an understanding way. To show them honor, to treat them as an heir with you, a co-heir of the grace of life. And there's a warning that if a husband does not live with his wife in an understanding Prayers may be hindered. One of the key qualifications for church office is that you be a husband of one wife and that you manage your household. Well, that means that you're following the household code. So you're loving your wife faithfully and you're treating her by laying down your life for her, as Paul would put it in Ephesians 5. as you're honoring her, um as Peter puts it here in 1 Peter 3. So there is a mutual obligation. The other thing to point out about the household codes that I think it's really important. And it's an obvious point, but it's one that we can often miss. God does not command wives to make their husbands love them and share them. God does not command husbands to make their wives submit to them and obey them. Of Christ to offer themselves first to Christ and then to their spouse. And so it is the wife's obligation to take care of And while we are to encourage one another and build each other up, this is not a coercive like the wife is saying, Well I'm not gonna respect you until you love me better, or the husband's gonna say, well I'm not gonna love you better until you respect me more. Like that's that is wrong. That is a manipulative and Selfish attitude. This is again, it's in imitation of Christ. And what did Christ do? He laid down his life for us. He bore our sins in his body on the He did not wait for us to get our act together before he sacrificed himself for us. And that's the attitude that husbands and wives need to to have toward one another. And all of us, finally all of you, have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. All of us need to have that attitude toward one another within the family of God. To not repay anyone evil for evil, but to bless. to to speak good, to do good, to seek peace and pursue it, to to imitate Christ. Christ, all of us, not only in our relationship with the government, not only in our relationship to our bosses at work, not only in our marriage relationships at home, but all of us as believers to one another Have this obligation, and it really is a blessing, an obligation to be a blessing, and as we seek to be a blessing, we are blessed ourselves Whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil, his lips from speaking deceit, let him turn away from evil and do good. This is all from Psalm 34. Let him seek peace and pursue it, for the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, his ears open to their prayer. So in the same way, if we're in the body of Christ, if we're gossiping about each other, if we're assuming the worst of each other, if we're sort of snubbing each other. Like God's not gonna be open and hearing our prayers and for us and delighting to bless us. No, that's gonna subject us to his discipline, to his father. Discipline and chastisement. We need to be united, loving one another, tender-hearted, humble, blessing. Even when someone wrongs us, even when another brother or sister in Christ wrongs us, we should seek to be a blessing back to them. Who would harm you if you're zealous for what is good? If you suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. That's that's the Call. If I think a lot of times Christians think that because we are Christians, any sort of wrong that we might suffer Is automatically righteous suffering or persecution. No, it's not. We are to have a good conscience We are to act above reproach. We are to honor Christ the Lord as holy. We are to do good. And then if we do suffer. for doing good. If we do suffer for righteousness' sake, we are blessed. But we have to have a clear conscience. If we're gossiping and the word gets out and it comes back and bites us because we've been talking About somebody else? If we're slandering someone, if we're being obnoxious and opinionated and pushy and demanding, if we're wallowing in self-pity and acting like a victim class and the world or other Christians like react negatively to that, that's on us. That's not what we're called to. We're called to a humble, Christ-like Like servant hearted, loving holiness of life. And in the context of that, if we're really living that way, if we are really living by faith in Christ Christ, with a Christ-like humility and submission, Peter knows that there will be some people in our lives who will see the difference and who will ask us about it. So he says, always be prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you, yet do it with gentleness and respect this verse is not primarily a call to academic apologetics apologetics is the defense of the faith from a logical, philosophical, evidential perspective. Here are the reasons we have for believing in Christianity. In in an academic debate sense, that's not the primary thing that's in View here in 1 Peter 3. 15. The primary thing that's in view here is a personal testimony of someone who says, Hey, I've noticed that when someone hurls an insult at you you, you don't just fire right back at them. I've noticed that if someone's gossiping about you, you don't take it into heart to gossip back about them. I've noticed that you try to treat others the way you would want to be treated, not necessarily the way they've treated you. I've noticed that you live differently. And then you say, I have a hope that is beyond this life. I have a hope with Christ in heaven. That means that the the minor little things we suffer in this life are really no big deal compared to how much Jesus loves me and how much He's given me. And you do so with gentleness and respect. And that way people would hear, people would look Listen. It's not about always having the right answer. Sometimes we don't want to share the gospel because we're afraid someone's going to stump us with a hard question that we don't have an answer to. This isn't talking about that. It's talking about speak from the heart. About the hope that God has given you and how it has changed your life and how it has changed the way you look at life. Christ suffered for sin. The righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. It may be that your gospel witness to someone else would require suffering It certainly is the case that following Christ obediently in this world requires suffering because we have to say no to our selfish desires And so we follow Christ best when we endure suffering with patience and with faith. And then we get to the end of 1 Peter 3, and it gets A little bit strange and hard to understand. Because we can understand certainly enough, for Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. Okay. So in the physical realm, in his body, Jesus was crucified. In the Spirit, Jesus never died. He offered his spirit to the Lord. He said, Into your hands I commit my spirit. So he lived and then his body was raised again. But then it says, in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison. What does that mean? Because they formerly did not obey when God's patients waited in the days of Noah while the ark was being prepared, in which a few that it Eight persons were brought safely through water. What does this mean? It's very, very difficult to understand this passage well. So There's two kind of main interpretations that seem to fit with the whole Council of God's Word. One is that it was Christ who was preaching in the Spirit through Noah in in the past. So in 2 Peter 2. 5, which we'll get to soon, Noah is called a herald of righteousness, a preacher, a proclaimer And so it may be saying, Christ in the Spirit preached way back in the days of Noah when God's patience waited While the Ark was being prepared. It took Noah about a hundred and twenty years to build the Ark, and while he was building the Ark, he was a preacher of righteousness. Invited people to come on the ark, but they would not do so. Now, evidence for this thing, this interpretation, we can go to Jude. This is Jude. And Jude 1 chapter, verse 5, says, Now I want to remind you, although you once fully knew it, that Jesus, who saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed So the Exodus is said to be the work of Jesus. Jesus saved a people out of Egypt, and Jesus destroyed those who did not believe. Leave. And then 1 Corinthians 10, for I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, all passed through the sea, all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ So Christ is the rock of Exodus. Christ is also the one who's leading his people out of Egypt in the Exodus and judging those who fall in the wilderness. So Christ is throughout the Old Testament actively working through the Spirit. So this is my preferred interpretation. The second is that maybe these spirits are fallen angels who were cast into hell to await the final judgment, and that Christ triumphed over them. in his death and in his resurrection. This is this would be Colossians 2, you would look at for support for this. And so that's the other major interpretation. That's not the one that I prefer. But the the idea is that Christ triumphed over the evil spirits and so he proclaimed To the spirits in prison, they're awaiting judgment because they've been defeated by Christ. Maybe. And now we get to verse 21, which gets really confusing. How much time do we have? We're already way over But baptism, which corresponds to this, this is why I think we're talking about Noah and the Ark and the preaching as a herald of righteousness being The preaching of Christ in the Spirit. Because what was the message? The message was: come into the ark and be saved from the judgment of God. Baptism identifies a person as belonging to the people of God, but it does require faith. It's not the removal of dirt from the body, but it's an appeal to God for a good conscience, which requires It doesn't mean it doesn't mean that only believers can be baptized. It means, because I think there's other places in Scripture that would say that the children of believers are part of the covenant family. And they should be baptized just as circumcision. Circumcision to be effective as a sign required faith. The physical circumcision had to be become reality in heart circumcision. Water baptism, the removal of dirt from the body, is not the ultimate thing. What it is, is the appeal to God for a good conscience through the Resurrection of Jesus Christ. That is another way of talking about saving faith. The only way I know I can have a good conscience is by the death and resurrection of Jesus. So I'm appealing to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus. That means I'm trusting in you. Jesus. This is the New Testament equivalent of getting in the ark. Getting in the ark, you are hiding yourself in God's means of refuge and rescue from judgment. In the New Testament, faith in Christ, you're hiding yourself in God's means of refuge and rescue from the judgment of the And so the preaching of Noah is a good anticipation. Christ was there preaching, saying Come to Christ, come to the Ark, come and be safe in the Ark of Refuge. Jesus is our Ark of Refuge. He is in heaven. He is at the right hand of God. of God. He is there with angels, authorities, and power subject to him. And if we are baptized in the spirit, in spirit baptism, just like Circumcised in heart is what really needed to happen. If we're baptized in the Spirit, we are hiding ourselves in Christ. We belong to Christ. Now that's pictured in water baptism, just as heart circumcision was pictured. In flesh circumcision. But it's not water baptism. The grossest misinterpretation of this verse is that being baptized in water saves you By itself, the act of water baptism being an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Water would be saved. And that's simply not true. It's not true whether you believe in believers' baptism or in covenant child baptism. It's not true that everyone who has been baptized is saved. Baptized in water. It is true that everyone who's baptized in the Spirit is saved. Just as it was not true that everyone who was circumcised in the flesh was saved. Remember, Esau was circumcised. Remember, Ishmael was circumcised. But it is those who have faith who were saved. Those who were circumcised in their hearts. Well, we've gone way, way long, but there's a lot of complicated things in this chapter. I hope it was a benefit to you. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word, even the difficult parts. They challenge us and they teach us. May we live as those who belong to Christ, who have hidden our lives in Christ And we show that by the way we live in Christ-like humility, in love, in submission In honor, we pray that we would do so and that you would do so in us and through us by your grace. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for 1 Peter chapter 3. Tomorrow, we are going to be in the book of Jonah. Looking forward to Jonah tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.