Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Hope you're doing well today as we're now on day 1056. our 1056th day together in the Word of God, and we're here on 1 Peter chapter 4. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. We love you and we love your word. Because you have loved us and because you have been so gracious as to speak to us in your word. So would you please, by your Holy Spirit. Speak to us through 1 Peter 4. Write it on our hearts. Help us to see and follow and love Jesus more clearly for the time we spend with you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. 1 Peter 4. Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. For the time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry With respect to this, they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you. But they will give an account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached, even to those who are dead. that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does. The end of all things is at hand Therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly since love covers a multitude of sins. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling, as each has received a gift. Use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks is one who speaks the oracles of God. Whoever serves as one who serves by the strength that God supplies. In order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him. Be long glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you. as though some strange thing were happening to you. But rejoice, insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. Because the Spirit of Glory And of God rests on you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey? the gospel of God, and if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. That's first Peter chapter 4. Like 1 Peter 3, there's a couple of really confusing bits in this chapter, but the overall message of the chapter is very clear and very compelling, and it's summed up well in that final verse. Let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. The Christian life will always come with suffering. Sometimes it will come with suffering because the world is opposed to the gospel, and so you will suffer abuse, hardship, discrimination. uh disdain from the world for being a Christian. Sometimes it comes with suffering because God is disciplining us as children and weaning us off of our addiction to our selfish desires, our selfish pleasures. And sometimes we don't really know why the suffering is coming But through all of that kind of suffering that being a Christian involves, we have to keep our focus on Christ, following his example, and receiving the strength that God supplies. So we begin with a call. Therefore, since Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. So we're imitating Christ. And then a strange, puzzling statement, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. What does that mean? Does it mean that if you've ever suffered in the flesh, then you no longer sin at all? Well, it can't mean that, because everyone has suffered in the flesh, and everyone So we know it doesn't mean that. Now, this whoever could be a definite pronoun referring to Christ for he who has. suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. So it could be a reference to Christ, and the whoever should be better translated in that case as the one who has or he who has. suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. That is a possibility. The other possibility is that what Peter is saying is if you voluntarily choose to suffer affliction, hardship, distress, In obedience to Christ, for bearing the name of a Christian, you at a fundamental level break your soul's relationship to sin Not that you don't ever sin anymore, but you now are choosing to undergo hardship and suffering rather than sin against Christ, rather than deny Christ, rather than dishonor God. And that means that sin is not going to have that same grip on you anymore. Because one of the major ways that Satan gets us to sin is by convincing us that it will be pleasurable to our flesh, or it will be a way to avoid hardship to the flesh. But if we set aside the pleasures of the flesh and we embrace suffering for Christ it breaks that fundamental relationship. I think it's more likely that second meaning and understanding um because Verse 2 says, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. Jesus always lived for the will of God and no longer for human passions. But this is depicting a break that happens from a particular kind of suffering. Now he says later, it's not the suffering of being a murderer or a slanderer or a meddler. It's not the suffering that comes as a consequence of your sin. It's Christian suffering. It's suffering for the name of Christ. Now This brings to the forefront this idea that we as Christians have a decision to make. We're either going to name the name of Christ but continue to live pursuing the things that the Gentiles want to do sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, lawless idolatry. In other words, we're we're going to call ourselves a Christian, but we're going to continue to just indulge the flesh, pleasing our flesh. Or We're going to follow Christ on the path of suffering, saying no to ourselves, saying no to our flesh and its selfish desires. and saying yes to the will of God, the will of God, which is here in verse two, and it comes up again in that last verse. Whoever suffers according to God's will, according to the will of God. We say yes to the will of God, even if it involves suffering. Now, if we do that, the world's not going to understand us. What are you doing? Why are you choosing to suffer for the sake of Christ? Now this this doesn't mean Things like beating yourself with a whip to say that you're suffering for Christ. It just means enduring hardship, enduring difficulty. Say no to your flesh. saying no to the world and its temptations, enduring hardship whatever might come. And so We know that Christ has suffered for our sins. We know that we're following in his footsteps, and we also know that everyone's going to stand before the judge of the living and the dead. That's what verse 5 tells us. So when the world makes fun of us and says, oh, you Christians are just so dumb, why don't you just live it up and have a little bit of fun and relax and quit being so strict on yourselves or whatever, we can say, you know what? They don't they don't get it. They don't get that one day they're going to stand before the holy God of the universe and give an account. He's going to judge them. And then verse 6 brings us to another interpretive difficulty, is a good way to put it. What does he mean by this is why the gospel was preached to those who are dead? That though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does. Well, I think It's a reference here to those who have died in the faith and perhaps even died for the faith. They believed the gospel. They're dead now. But they believed the gospel and they were judged in the flesh the way people are. They were put to death like James the apostle was run through with a sword, like Stephen was stoned. We know those guys at least would have been dead by the time Peter writes 1 Peter. But what were they do? They live in the Spirit the way God does. They live forever with Jesus. So I think that's what he's referencing in verse It's a good rule whenever you're stuck with a a thorny verse, you know, wondering, how do I interpret this? The rule is to allow scripture to interpret scripture. In other words, you don't interpret it in such a way as would contradict the rest of Scripture In God's wisdom, there's always a way to have a harmony between the various parts of God's word. And so with both of these tricky verses, verse 1 and verse 6, You approach it and you say, what's the best reasonable way to understand this that doesn't contradict the rest of Scripture where Scripture is very clear? Verse 7. The end of all things is at hand. Does that mean that Peter was expecting Jesus to return within his lifetime or within the next few months or weeks? No. We are living in the end times. We are living in the last days. We are even living in the last hour of human history. This is language that's used by Peter at the day of Pentecost. He said it's the last days by the author of Hebrews. In the opening of his epistle, he says, In these last days he's spoken to us through his son. It's the end times, which Paul makes reference to. And it's even the final hour, which John makes reference to in 1 John. That just means everything that God has promised has come to pass in Jesus, and there's only one more redemptive historical event yet to take place, and that is the second coming of Jesus, the day of the Lord, which can come at any time. So God in His grace has elongated these last days, this final hour, so that it is the whole church age, which has now gone on for about 2,000 years, because God is patient. And he's wanting to see all of those who are elect in Christ, all of those who belong to Jesus, need to be born into the world, come to faith in Jesus, and become saved. If you think about it, if if Jesus came back during Peter's day, where would we be? We wouldn't exist. We certainly wouldn't be children of God who get to enjoy eternity in the new heavens and the new earth. And if Christ delays for much longer, it may be for the sake of our great-great-great-grandchildren to be born, to come to faith in Christ. So we have to keep in mind God's big picture view of what he's doing. But the end of all things is at hand, which means the second coming of Christ is imminent. It's imminent. Could come at any time because everything that needs to have happened happened in Jesus. He fulfilled all the promises and purposes of God So we live in light of the soon return of Christ, and we live in service to one another. So we are supposed to be sober-minded, self-controlled for the sake of our prayers, and we are to love one another earnestly. And we are to serve one another as stewards of God's varied grace. Each one of us has been gifted. to be able to serve one another in the body of Christ as stewards of God's grace. That means we're the ones who who serve one another the grace of God. Here is the grace of God in a word well spoken. Here is the grace of God in a prayer offered up on your behalf. Here is the grace of God in an act of kindness as I bring you a meal. Here is the grace of God served up in Helping to set up the nursery and clean it up after church so that uh small children can have proper child care. Who here is the grace of God. And Peter breaks it down. In Paul we get like lists of spiritual gifts Here, Peter just breaks it down in two basic categories. You're either speaking or you're serving. If you're speaking, You're to do it as one who speaks the oracles of God, whether you're teaching junior church or reading the Bible, a kid's Bible to a two-year-old, or teaching an adult Sunday school class, or preaching the Bible. or participating in a small group Bible study, if you're to speak about God's word, you are to keep in mind that you are speaking God's word. And so be spirit-led and faithful. If you serve However, you might serve, serve by the strength that God supplies. If we speak the word of God, not our own opinions, And if we serve in the strength that God supplies, God is glorified through Jesus Christ. And the more we speak and serve, the more we love one another, the more glory God gets in his church. But we also need to be prepared to suffer. Because the end times are marked as a time of suffering, a time of tribulation. It is the last time, which is means it is the tribulation. Which means we're going to suffer for the name of Christ. And if we do so, we're blessed. Again, not for being a murderer, thief, evildoer, meddler. Don't think Oh, I slandered someone or I spread a lie or I said something very mean spirited and they got mad at me and they're persecuting me for being a Christian. No Doesn't mean that you can just be a jerk and treat people like garbage or say lies or slander people. No. If you are insulted for the name of Christ. You are blessed, for the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. And if God disciplines you, Take that as a blessing that you are a child of God. You're in the household of God. That's where judgment begins with the discipline of the Lord in this life. And so we need to entrust ourselves to a faithful creator while continuing to do good. First Peter is such a practical book, and it speaks so well to the situation we live in in this world. This world hates the Lord. Always has. It will hate the Lord until he comes again to judge the living and the dead. There's nothing in the New Testament that would let us believe that somehow the world's going to become converted to being a Christian world and we're going to start singing holy, holy, holy at the United Nations Assembly. No, the world is going to oppose Christ up until the moment when Christ returns. We need to be faithful. We need to love each other. We need to keep our eyes on Jesus and walk in his footsteps. We need to say no to our flesh, and including that self-preservation instinct that we have. Trust the Lord, do good, and be willing to suffer for His name. Let's pray. Father, thank you for calling us to be your children. Thank you for giving us salvation in Jesus. Be our Lord and God and lead us and bless us and keep us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for 1 Peter chapter 4. I hope it was a blessing to you. And as always, I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.