Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forestville Presbyterian Church. It is day 1060. 1060. That means we have uh what thirty-six days left, something like that? Getting exciting. Come down to the stretch. And we are in 1 Peter chapter 5, finishing up this wonderful book. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to his word today. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for this book of 1 Peter as it challenges us and comforts us. us. We pray that you'd speak to us through your word today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. First Peter chapter 5, I have A wonderful cup of not coffee. This is a cinnamon chai tea. Sweetened with a little bit of maple syrup, a little touch of oat milk. It's yummy. Very autumnal. Sort of in that Autumn to winter type flavor. Anyway, 1 Peter chapter 5. So I exhort the elders among you. as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you. Not for shameful gain, but eagerly, not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. Humble yourself, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Be sober-minded. Be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little while The God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be the dominion for ever and ever. Amen. By Sylvanus, a faithful brother as I regard him, I have written briefly to you Exhorting and declaring that this is the true grace of God. Stand firm in it. She who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings. And so does Mark, my son. Greet one another with the kiss of love. Peace to all who are in Christ. That is 1 Peter chapter 5. So the opening paragraph of 1 Peter 5 is about being an elder. And I think it's interesting that Peter, who is an apostle, who many have called the first among the apostles Some people have wrongly identified him as the first pope, that Peter really is addressing elders as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ. So Peter sees his office within the church as being that of an elder, a fellow elder. Yes, he is an apostle. Because he is an authoritative witness to the sufferings and the glory of Christ. So that role is unique, the role as a sent witness. An apostle is a sent one. A sent witness, but he holds the office of an elder within the church. And elders are always part of a group of elders. Fellow elders, not underling elders, but fellow elders, the brotherhood of elders who are called to be under-shepherds under Christ. And the call for an elder In verse 2, Shepherd the flock of God that is among you. Shepherd the flock of God that is among you. All that God does in shepherding us, elders should be doing in shepherding the flock. Teaching, correcting, rebuking, training in righteousness, protecting from enemies, feeding with the word. Um encouraging, strengthening, leading by example, all of these things. We are to shepherd the flock of God. among us, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly. So we're not compelled reluctantly, but we're willingly eager And not for shameful gain, not just for our own self-aggrandizement, our reputation, our name, our status, whatever. Not for any of that. But rather To glorify God as examples of the flock, not domineering, knowing that Christ is the chief shepherd. and he's going to appear and he will reward us according to our stewardship responsibilities on that day. So those who are not elders should be subject to the elders. All of us, elders and non-elders, all of us should have humility toward one another. Elders shouldn't be domineering over the flock The flock shouldn't be undermining or criticizing the elders. We should be humble toward one another, because God opposes the proud that gives I'm thankful for the elders we have it for us till I'm thankful for I'm thankful for the flock that God has given us together at Forest Hill. I'm thankful for the remarkable love and unity and support that we offer to one another. But we we have room to grow as well in this day by day. And we need to ask the Lord. We need to ask the Lord for faithfulness and humility. Humble yourselves. Again, there's that humble. Humility, humble, humble. See that three times in two verses. Clothe yourselves with humility. God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God. The only way we can be humble with each other is if we're humble first under the Lord He is God. We are not. He's the boss. He's the chief shepherd. He's the leader and ruler and sovereign. We are not. So, at the proper time, God exalts us. Until then, we can cast all of our anxieties on him. We can give him the load. We can give him the burden. We can bear one another's burdens, but when that becomes too much, ultimately we give it to God. We lift one another up in prayer. We encourage one another. We should be sober-minded and watchful because while we have a shepherd, we also have an enemy. There's a shepherd we're following. The under-shepherds should be leading the sheep to follow the chief shepherd. But we should also be aware that there is an enemy. And he's prowling around like a roaring lion. Lions sort of stick to the outskirts of the flock. They look for the loner sheep. They look for the weak sheep. They look for the straggling sheep. Under Shepherds need to be mindful of these folks, but these folks also need to be mindful to stick with the flock. Keep up with the good shepherd. Stay in the right path. Don't wander off all by yourself. Sometimes we get our feelings hurt at church. We do. I've gotten my feelings hurt at church so many times. And then we walk away. Because somebody upset us or somebody misunderstood us or somebody did something that we misunderstood or there was just a whatever and we walk away and that is such playing into Satan's devices. He wants to get us alone We resist him firm in the faith by sticking together and by expecting that we're going to suffer, that following Jesus is at times going to be hard. And we encourage one another and we stick together through it. We're not alone in this suffering. All over the world, our brothers and sisters go through the same kinds of suffering. So we have all the same kinds of things that we face. But God is faithful, and after we've suffered for a little while, He will. He will restore us, He will confirm us, He will strengthen us, and He will establish us. To him be the dominion forever and ever. Because see, he's the king. We're being saved by him. We're being ruled by him. We're being kept by him. We need to just keep our eyes on him and keep stepping after him. Now, sometimes it's easy to skip the final greetings of a letter like this, but let's not do that. Sylvanus, this is Silas. So um He's written letters with Paul. He's now written letters with Peter. They are apparently in Rome, because it says She who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings. And so does Mark, my son. So Silas and Peter and Mark and probably Paul are all in Rome at this time. And Peter and Silas write this together. Mark is there. So most Bible scholars believe that Peter worked with Mark on writing the Gospel of Mark. So Mark is the author of the Gospel of Mark, but most of his source material came from Peter, because Mark wasn't one of the original twelve disciples. So they're there. But what what do they want? These brothers, these patriarchs of the faith, Silas and Peter and Mark, what do they want? They want us to stand firm in the true grace of God. They want us to love one another, and they want us to have the peace of Christ. Let's pray. Father, you're so good to us. You've given us a great shepherd in the Lord Jesus Christ, faithful, unfailing. You've given us an unshakable kingdom. You've given us a living hope. That we read about the beginning of this letter. And you call us to follow you, to endure suffering, to be on the lookout for the enemy, to stick together as your flock. So help us to do that by your grace and for your glory. Lead us, provide for us, protect us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for 1 Peter. What a wonderful letter. Tomorrow we're going to begin the minor prophet Nahum. It's probably a book you don't know that much about. So hope you can be here tomorrow. Have a blessed day.