Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Hope you're doing well. As we're on our 1047th day together in God's Word, we're in 1 Peter chapter 1. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and for your faithfulness. Lord, we thank you that you are with us always, that you never leave us or forsake us, and that you give us your word that we can be in every day. By your grace, we can grow in knowledge and understanding and wisdom. So grow us by grace to the glory of your name. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. 1 Peter chapter 1. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion. in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood. May grace and peace be multiplied to you. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance. that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith. for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor. at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him, and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith the salvation of your souls. Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicated was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves, but you in the things that have now been announced to you. through those who preached the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look. Therefore, preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear. throughout the time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of you. who through him are believers in God who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere, brotherly love, love one another earnestly, from a pure heart. since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living and abiding word of God For all flesh is like grass, and all its glory is like the flower of the grass. The grass withers, and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever, and this Word is the good news that was preached to you. I love First Peter. Uh I did another time I did a mini crash course on First Peter. You can look up those videos uh on our YouTube channel or on our Facebook page um if you want you know more teaching on this wonderful book. It is a wonderful book. Peter is an apostle of Jesus Christ. We know him well from the Gospels, Simon Peter, brother of Andrew. Um he is fisherman from Galilee, uh Jewish. And he's addressing the church. He's addressing the church in in multiple places. Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. This is a dispersed group of people who are part of the church throughout present-day Turkey, Asia Minor is primarily where these cities are. But it's interesting that he refers to them as elect Exiles of the dispersion. The dispersion here is a very technical term, the diaspora. That would normally be used to refer to Jewish people who have been scattered from the Promised Land and were living sort of in exile outside of the Promised Land. But Peter's not writing to Jewish Christians, much less is he writing to Jewish people as Jewish people. He's writing to believers, to Christians. And we have good reason to see that the vast majority of people he's writing to likely come from a Gentile background. Not from a Jewish background, even though Peter himself came from a Jewish background. So if we look down at the sections that I have highlighted here, We'll see a little bit of what I'm talking about, the fact that they were these are people who did not know the one true God until they came to faith in Jesus Christ. In fact, I'll highlight one more. Here. And so the the red highlight refers to the things that they used to be. So in verse 14. the passions of your former ignorance. In verse 18, you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers. And then, how are you ransomed? With the precious blood of Christ, like that of the Lamb without blemish or spot, and through him, that is through Christ. You are believers in God. Now this is not the way you would talk to Jewish background believers. You would say You knew the one true God and his promises that have now come to fulfillment in Jesus Christ, or you received the law and the prophets. And now you've received their fulfillment in Jesus Christ. That's not what he's talking about. He's saying you were formerly ignorant of the one true God. You had futile ways. He certainly would not refer to the ways of of Old Testament Judaism, the ways of of the Word of God as futile ways. But these are futile ways inherited from your forefathers where you weren't even believers in the one true God. Why am I emphasizing this? Because one of the things we learned, especially from 1 Peter 1 and 2, is that in Christ The church is the chosen people of God, the new Israel, and There's language in chapter 1, the opening here, elect exiles of the dispersion, and there's language in chapter 2, which we'll get to in a few days, that is specifically Jewish language. But it's being used of Gentile Christians, of the church. And this is one of several places in the New Testament where it's explicit that what the God's people were in the Old Testament as the political nation-state people of Israel is is fulfilled And is now the church. It's not a replacement theology. I hate that term. I think that's a very bad way of looking at it. It tends to have anti-Semitic overtones. But it's fulfillment theology. It is continuity. And so it has a more of an emphasis of gratitude and inheritance rather than the negative jargon of replacement, which I think is a a a sort of a dark, twisted way of of looking at it. But uh but we are the people of God. We are the the chosen people. We are the elect elect chosen. Exiles of the dispersion. you know, America or wherever we may be, right? We are in exile. We are not in our promised land. This world is not the promised land. America is not the promised land. But rather we are in exile and we are journeying toward our promised land. We are elect. We are chosen by God. The doctrine of election is something that you find very clearly in John's Gospel. very clearly in the writings of Paul and right here at the opening of 1 Peter. It is a biblical doctrine through and through. You are chosen by God. And it really is connected to just as God chose Israel, why did God choose Abraham out of Ur of the Chaldeans and call him He chose him by grace, he chose him because he loved to be chosen, because he set his heart upon him, and was determined to bless him, and through him to bring a blessing to all the peoples of the earth. And so the same reason that we are elect. We are elect according to the foreknowledge of God. Now foreknowledge biblically means God loved us. Before he created the world. God loved us before he ever created the world. I saw a great quote this morning. from Gerhardus Voss, a great biblical theologian, who said, The best proof that God will never stop loving you is that he never started loving you. Now that might seem weird. What do you mean he never started? It means God loves you from eternity past. Before there was time, he foreknew, he for-loved you, which means he's always loved you Because it's before time began. And he always will love you. And that should give us confident hope. We're foreknown by God the Father. We're sanctified by the Spirit. The Spirit's the one who makes us holy, sets us apart. Excuse me, what does he set us apart for? He sets us apart for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood, that is cleansing us of our sin. Faith and obedience go together. It's one of the things we see here in 1 Peter 1 is this truth that Our works do not save us. Our obedience does not save us. In fact, it's impossible for us to even talk about doing good works or obeying God from the heart before God saves us. Because we have to be born again to a living hope first Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. This reminds me of Ephesians 1. 3. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again. to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Just as Jesus rose from the dead into eternal life So we rose from being spiritually dead to being eternally spiritually alive before God by this great regeneration, this great act of God's sovereign grace. to cause us to be born again to a living hope. But once we are born again to a living hope, we are called to a life of holiness and obedience We are not saved by good works. We're not saved by obedience because we couldn't even do them before we were saved. But we are saved. So that we might obey, so that we might do good works. To believe in Christ is to obey Christ. To trust in God is to follow God. And that's very, very clear in this chapter. It's also very clear that to be called to belong to God is to have two things. You have an imperishable inheritance, undefiled, unfading, kept in heaven for you, and you have trials and tribulations. The testing of the genuineness of your faith from here to there. That's part of what it means to be an exile. An exile means you're not in your homeland. You're away from where your heart is and where your true home is. And where our heart is and where our true home is, God has laid up for us an inheritance in Christ. But our faith is being tested And we're being grieved by various trials as we are on the way towards salvation. And so we don't see him now. We are living by faith, not by sight. We do not see him now, and yet we love him. We don't see him, but we believe in him, and we even rejoice With joy at the anticipation, first of all, that he would love us and that he would redeem us, but second of all, at the anticipation of what lays in store for us, that eye has not seen and ear has not heard. And then Peter dips back to the Old Testament. He says, this salvation that you are receiving, that you have received, that you are receiving, that you will receive. You've been born again to a living hope. And to be born again to a living hope means you have been saved. You've been born again You have now a living hope. You are being saved. It's a living hope, though hope is in the future, you will be saved. This salvation, the forgiveness of your sins, the cleansing of your souls. The eternal life that you will enjoy with Christ in the presence of God forever. This salvation was prophesied by the prophets in ages past. We're in the book of Isaiah in our Sunday morning sermons. Pretty soon, in December, we're going to be in the Advent series that's going to come from Isaiah 49. And if you're not familiar with Isaiah 49, you might think it's strange that I'm going to preach an Advent series from Isaiah 49, but read it. It's beautiful in what it tells us about Christ and about the salvation that is brought to us and to God's creation through Christ. So these prophets, they prophesied. But they knew that the word they were being given was not really for themselves, it was for a future generation. For those of us who get to live on this side of the cross in the empty grave, on this side of the fulfillment of all things. And so if we're living on this side of things, then we have been changed and we need to live as changed people. As he who called you is holy, verse 15, you also be holy in all your conduct, as it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. If God is our Father, children imitate their Father. So if God is our Father, we need to follow Him. We need to follow Him, we need to believe in Him, and we need to be willing to suffer. There is nothing in this world that should keep us from a wholehearted, joyful, hopeful Life of obedience to God. Because there's nothing in this world that can separate us from the love of God that is in Christ that can take away the inheritance that we have in glory. And there's also nothing in this world that will last as long as what we've been given in Christ. How do we do this? Well, through the Word of God. We were born again through the Word of God. We need to live according to the Word of God, especially as that Word of God is pointing us to the gospel of Jesus Christ. We need to love God, love one another, seek to be holy, that is set apart by God and for God, living lives of holiness. different from the world as those who know that we've been born again by the word of God and so we're going to live according to the word of God. That's the call. It's not how we get saved. It's how we live the salvation that we've been given. Let's pray. Father, thank you for giving us salvation through your Son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. He is Lord. He is our Lord. Help us to follow him today and always. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for 1 Peter chapter 1. I hope it was a blessing to you. And I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.