Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church On this 1,051st day of our three-year journey through the Word of God, we come today to 1 Peter chapter 2. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good and faithful. Your goodness and faithfulness is shown to us every day. Please speak to us through 1 Peter chapter 2. Show us your will for our lives, our identity in Christ, our calling, our hope, our purpose. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen 1 Peter chapter 2. So, put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander, like Newborn infants long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious, you yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house. to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. They stumble because they disobey the word as they were destined to do. But you are a chosen race. a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy but now you have received mercy. Beloved, I urge you, as sojourners and exiles, to abstain from the passions of the flesh. Which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers They may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution whether it be to the emperor as supreme, or to governors as sent by him, to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. Honor everyone, love the Brotherhood, fear God, honor the Emperor. Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the Sorry, the good and gentle. but also to the unjust. For this is a gracious thing. When mindful of God one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. For what credit is it? If when you sin and are beaten for it, you endure. But if when you do good and suffer for it, you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God God. For to this you have been called because Christ also suffered for you, leading you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. That we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed, for you were straying like sheep, but have now returned to the shepherd and overseer. of your souls. Amen. Well, what a great chapter. What a great book. Hmm. So Peter's been calling us to live as the holy people of God according to the Word of God. Remember back in chapter 1? He said that we are to be holy, even as he is holy, because he's our Father. We've been born again to a living hope. We've been ransomed, we've been redeemed, we've been purified. by our love for the truth. And so according to the Word of God we are to be holy. What does this look like? Well, we're to put some things away, and we're to long for some things. The things we're to put away, malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, slander What is all that? Well, that's the impure words that are contradictory to the pure word of God. They're self-serving. They're manipulative. Malice. That's anger and hateful speech Deceit. Hypocrisy. It's pretending to be. Envy, where you're you're you're coveting and envying one another. Slander, you're talking bad about another. This is this is a mindset that is selfish. And unfaithful to the truth. In contrast to that, putting all that away, we are to long for the pure spiritual milk. that by it you may grow up into salvation if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. Junk food, candy, chips, cookies, they're tasty, no doubt. But they're not going to make you healthy and strong. And you really need to stay away from overindulging, right? Well, this stuff is worse than junk food. Imagine junk food that's laced with small doses of poison so that if you keep on eating it, not only will you be unhealthy, but you'll start dying. It's not good. The pure spiritual milk of the Word of God is what we need to grow up into salvation. If we know that God is good, we need to hear His Word. We need to long for His Word. And again it may not have the same instant, you know, you look at a plate of steamed broccoli with, you know, some salt and pepper on it and you look at So racist peanut butter cups. There's no doubt which one's going to be more immediately satisfying to your appetite. There's also no doubt which one is more long-term nutritious. So you long for and you train yourself to desire and to appreciate that which is good. That which is good. And in light of this Peter here now gives us an extended metaphor about the temple to remind us of who we are and to give us a vision for who we are and what God is doing with our lives. We've come to Jesus. Jesus is a living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. The stone that the builders rejected. that has become the cornerstone. This is in Psalm 118, one of the most important Old Testament verses for how it's quoted and used in the New Testament. Jesus is that stone He's the stone that's laid in Zion. He's the stone that is the precious cornerstone. We come to him And we are being built up in him. We are being built up in him into a spiritual house. To be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. So I yesterday I remember when we were at the end of Amos, I said we don't need a temple in Jerusalem or a temple mound in Jerusalem. Some people think that's controversial. It just shouldn't be really in the light of the New Testament. But even in the light of what you know Jesus said to the Samaritan woman at the well, he said it himself. I didn't say he said it. And so here we're being told the reason why we don't need that Temple Mount in Jerusalem and a rebuilt temple there is that we are. the living stones being built up into a spiritual house. Not only are we that, but we're also the holy priesthood. We don't need a priesthood, a separate priesthood. That's why I'm not a priest, I'm a pastor. I am a priest, but I don't call myself a priest because I'm a priest in the same way that every other believer is a priest. We're all part of a holy priesthood. It's called the universal priesthood of all believers. We are all called to make intercession. to pray before God, making intercession. We're all called to speak God's word and to bless others in the name of the Lord. I am a pastor, I'm a shepherd, called to be an under-shepherd over the house of God, but but not as a priest, not as a mediator. There's only one mediator, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's our high priest, one high priest And then we're all priests under him. We offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. What is that? Well, that's our lives, right? Romans 12 Offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God. The sacrifice of praise, Hebrews 13. The fruit of lips giving thanks to his name. That's what we offer to God. Our lives, our thanks, our worship. Mind, body, heart, and soul, as an act of thankfulness. But we're being built up. We're being built up into this house. We are, verse 9, the chosen race. You are chosen race. Christians are the continuation of and fulfillment of Israel. We are the true Israel. A royal priesthood, a holy nation. Chosen race, royal priesthood, holy nation, a people for his own possession. These are all the things that God said in the Old Testament about Israel. They're now being said about the Church, which primarily, if you remember from 1 Peter 1, primarily the audience here are Gentiles, non-Jewish believers in Jesus Christ. We are chosen race, royal priesthood, holy nation, people of first own possession, the spiritual house, the temple, the priesthood. That's us. And then he quotes here from Hosea Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you have not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Remember Hosea's Second child was no mercy and third child was not my people. But then God said through them, the no mercy is going to receive mercy, and the not my people is going to be my people. Well that was in in Hosea, even in the names of his children, was a prophecy that we who were not part of the people of God are going to be grafted into the people of God. We who would not receive mercy would now receive mercy. So if that's who we are What's our relationship to this world? Well, we're sojourners and exiles. We're sojourners on a journey through this world. We're exiles not in our homeland. How should sojourners and exiles act? Well, they should not get too comfortable and too complacent with the land of their sojourn. They should abstain from those things, not not from all worldly pleasure in the sense of like you should only eat like stale toast and drink tepid water. It's not that. That's that's not actually even going to do anything. That's just external regulations. It's more about the heart. Don't love the things the world is constantly telling you to love. Don't long for the things the world is constantly telling you to long for. Love the Lord and His good promises and long for His glory and His good for you And then, in this world, if you're not going to love what the world loves, you're not going to long for the things that the world longs for, how should you live in this world? Should we be in an enemy position of like taking up arms and fighting against people in this land of our sojourn and exile? No. If you're on a sojourn or you're in an exile, you don't fight against the land of your sojourn or your exile, you get along. You maintain a good reputation. You honor the local customs without giving your heart to the gods. The best place to look for this is look in Daniel and look at Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, and Daniel himself. They were able to serve the kings of Babylon. They were able to be faithful administrators in the kingdom of Babylon, but they never worshiped their gods. They didn't bow down to the golden statue. They didn't make prayers to the king. They would not allow their hearts to be owned by the world, but they did keep a good reputation. Remember when The people envied Daniel, wanted to remove him from his position, they could find no accusation against him. He hadn't done anything wrong. I think Daniel is our model for this here, verse 12. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles, that is among the unbelievers. Again, more evidence that we are the true Israel, where unbelievers are now called the Gentiles. I'm not a Gentile. I am an Israelite indeed, right? I'm in Christ, the true Israel. And so I'm to keep my conduct among the Gentiles. The Gentiles are those who don't know the Lord. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. That could mean two different things. One, it could mean that even though they're going to slander you as an evildoer, they're going to keep watching you and they're going to realize there's something different about this guy. This woman is not like other people Her heart's not moved by the things everyone else is chasing after, money, pleasure, status, whatever. He's not chasing after the things that everybody else is chasing after. There's something different. He loves other people. He's considerate. He's kind. He's not self-seeking. He's not rude. What's different? And they could come to faith in Jesus Christ and glorify God for the testimony they heard through your life as well as from your mouth. Or it could also mean that on the day of visitation they'll have to confess, even though they didn't believe in the Lord Jesus, they had a good testimony. of what a real believer looked like that they rejected Christ even in light of that. So it could mean either one of those things or both of those things. And then Peter goes on to spell out even more what this means. One thing it means is that when it when it comes to the government, now here's where I'm really going to step on some toes, but this is God's word. I'm not going to pull any punches. So I have a faithful obligation to do this. Stop badmouthing the government. Stop accusing them of being all these things that they're not. Be subject to every human institution. Pay your taxes. Follow the law. Honor God-ordained institutions. Be subject for the Lord's sake, for the Lord's sake, to every human institution, whether it be to the governor as supreme. Or sorry, to the Emperor as supreme, or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and praise those who do good. So the president, the governor, the mayor, the sheriff All levels of government we should be subject to and we should honor. Honor everyone. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor. This is the will of God, verse 15, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free. You are actually in your soul free from all the restrictions. But don't don't be rebellious against the government in a way that is just obnoxious and self-righteous and Brings a bad reputation upon Christ and upon his people. This is exactly what Peter is saying here. He even says, in terms of employers or in terms of other authorities, you know, in in the case of this, it's in the context of slavery. which none of us have to live with that reality, but servants, slaves, literally, be subject to your masters With all respect, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the unjust. Even if something is unjust, you submit to it. As to the Lord, to silence foolish talk, to silence the ignorance of foolish people, For the Lord's sake. It's a gracious thing when mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. And that is something that we need to keep in mind at all times. He says there's no real credit. If you sin and are beaten for it, in other words, if you speed and get a speeding ticket, you can't say, oh, I honored God. No, you just did something you weren't supposed to do and you suffered a consequence for it. But If you're being even targeted and you submit to it graciously, then you can say, I'm honoring God here. This is not right, this is not fair, but I'm honoring the Lord here. And if we think that's too hard, we have the example of Jesus. Verse 21, for to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leading you an example so that you might follow in his step. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued in trusting himself to him who judges justly. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed, for you were straying like sheep, but have now returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls It's a beautiful gospel passage. It's in the context of submitting yourself even to unjust rules, regulations, sanctions for the sake of honoring God. Christ did so for us and for our salvation. We're not being called to endure anything nearly as difficult as that. So we need Two honor the governing authorities, graciously submit to them out of reverence for Christ for the sake of God's glory to silence the talk of foolish people And to have a good reputation among the Gentiles. That's the call. That's the call. And when we do so, we are following in the footsteps of Jesus. who bore our sins in his body on the tree, so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness Not only are we following the example of Jesus, but we're also living out the effect of what Jesus did. Jesus died to set us free from selfishness. From sin, so that we might live a life of selfless obedience. Even in hard ways, his death and resurrection gives us the power to do that. By his wounds you have been healed. You were straying like sheep, but now you've returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. If it's hard, keep your eyes on Jesus. Follow after him. Do it for his glory and honor. That's what we're called to. That's what we're called to. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. You are good and holy and just, righteous in all your ways. You've been gracious to us. You have changed our identity. We're no longer wandering sheep. We're no longer ignorant of you. We're no longer cut off from you. We are being built up into your holy temple. We are priests in service to you. We are a chosen people. We are a holy nation. We are people who exist to praise you. Help us to live out who we are in our day-to-day lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much for joining me for 1 Peter chapter 2. I hope it was a blessing to you, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.