Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 587, and we've come back to 2 Chronicles, 2 Chronicles 16, and back to King Asa. And, you know, almost wish that King Asa's story ended at the end of chapter 15. Because it was so good. So positive. We had so much to learn from chapters 14 and 15 of King Asa. But as we're going to see, King Asa is a man. As the old saying goes, the best of men are but men at best. And there's only one hero in the story of the Bible, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. because there's only one perfect man who is faithful to the end. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we turn to 2 Chronicles 16 this morning. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the honesty of your word. You tell us the truth that we might know ourselves rightly, might know you better, might cling to Jesus more tightly. might follow you more faithfully. By your grace, please do this work in our hearts this morning, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, 2 Chronicles chapter 16. In the thirty-sixth year of Asa, Baesha, king of Israel, went up against Judah. and built Rhema, that he might permit no one to go out or come in to Asa, king of Judah. Then Asa took silver and gold from the treasures of the house of the Lord and the king's house and sent them to Ben-Hadad. King of Syria, who lived in Damascus, saying, There is a covenant between me and you, as there was between my father and your father. Behold, I am sending you silver and gold. Go break your covenant with Baeshech, king of Israel. that he may withdraw from me. And Ben Hadad listened to King Asa, and sent the commanders of his armies against the city. And when Baesha heard of it, he stopped building Ramah and let his work cease. Then King Asa took all Judah, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber, with which Baasha had been building, and with them he built Ebah and Mizpah. At that time Hanani the seer came to Asa, king of Judah, and said to him, Because you relied on the king of Syria, and did not rely on the Lord your God, the army of the king of Syria, has escaped you. Were not the Ethiopians and the Libyans a huge army with very many chariots and horsemen? Yet because you relied on the Lord, he gave them into your hand. For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to give strong support to those whose heart is blameless toward him. You have done foolishly in this, for from now on you will have wars. Then Aetha was angry with the seer And put him in the socks in prison, for he was in a rage with him because of this. And Asa inflicted cruelties upon some of the people at the same time. The Acts of Asa, from first to last, are written in the book of the Kings of Judah and Israel In the 39th year of his reign, Asa was diseased in his feet, and his disease became severe. Yet even in his disease he did not see. But sought help from physicians, and Asa slept with his fathers, dying in the forty-first year of his reign They buried him in the tomb that he had cut for himself in the city of David. They laid him on a beer that had been filled with various kinds of spices prepared by the perfumer's art. And they made a very great fire in his honor. Hmm. Yeah, you know He's a man. He's a man. You know, I think sometimes we get really frustrated when we read of people like Asa and they just blow it, or people like Solomon We just seem to blow it. And we get frustrated because we we want some heroes. We want some heroes of the faith that we can rely on. Yesterday, we were looking at the Hall of Fame of faith. And and we think of those men and women as the heroes of the faith that we can look to and imitate. And in a sense they are, but in another sense they're all just men and women who fail, and there's only one real hero in the Jesus is the Savior, and the rest of us, all of us, are the saved who need saving. And we're saved by grace alone through faith. faith alone in Christ alone. And we acknowledge that, but still we're kind of looking for heroes. And I think part of the reason why we're looking for heroes is because we want to believe that we can be heroes. You can be a hero. That's part of what our culture tells us. And honestly, our response to that needs to be no thanks. I don't need to be a hero. I have a hero. He's my faithful Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And he has fully paid for all of my sins with His precious blood, and He has set me free from the tyranny of the devil, and He also watches over me in such a way that not a hair on my head can fall without the And that's from the Heidelberg Catechism question one kind of paraphrased answer there. But that's our hope. That's our only comfort in life and death, right? That's what Heidelberg is. number one tells us. And we need to hold on to that. And we need to hold that out before the world when they say you can be a hero and be the hero and heroes work here and all those kinds of things. Is there's only one hero, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Asa is but a man in the end. Remember we we looked at Asa in uh chapter 14, we said he was faithful to God, but he was also wise. in in the ways of the world. He was also uh you know, practical and and planning. Well, sometimes, sometimes in our lives, those two things can can be a tug of war with one another. Ideally, as we saw in chapters 14 and 15, those two things should work together because practical wisdom, skill for living, as we get like in Proverbs. Is given to us by God and to be joined with faith so that we can be faithful in faithful and wise, faithful and diligent. Right? And so that's important. But here, as happens sometimes in our lives, these two things begin to play against each other. We begin to think, well, I do have skill and I do have wisdom and I do understand the ways of the world And that means I can figure things out on my own. That's not a safe place to be. But that's where Asa is, and he figures, ah, okay. So here comes Baesha, king of Israel. The reality is that Israel is still a larger and more powerful kingdom than Judah, even though Asa's king. is that when ten tribes split off to the north and two tribes remain in the south and also in the north they have much closer contact with Syria and they have much greater natural resources. around the Sea of Galilee and in the northern hill country. It it's just a more powerful kingdom, it is. And so Baeesha comes up against Judah and Judah is outnumbered and they are intimidated. And Baeshe is able to build Rhema as a fortress city to control traffic in and out of Judah. He's gonna he's gonna try to make Judah a vassal state where they have to pay tribute to to him and be subject to his overlordship. And Asa's not really interested in that. He doesn't really want to do that. And so he realizes he's got someone even greater still, farther to the north. And that is the Syrians and Ben Hadad, and he can just pay them off, and they han Ben Hadad will come and then relieve him of the pressure of the King of Israel. And guess what? It works. Hey, it works. Worldly wisdom often works. You know, you compromise a little bit. You you calculate a little bit in a self-serving way, and hey, you get what you wanted. Yay! No, not yay, because even though it works, And even though they're not only able to tear down the stones of Ramah, that fortress city that Baeesha had built, but they're also able to build up two fortress cities to protect them against Israel. He did so by not relying on the Lord, but by relying on the king of Syria. And God had A contingency where if if he had trusted the Lord, it it's what appears here. We've talked earlier about this interplay between divine sovereignty and human responsibility. and how both of these things are true. And and so there's this opportunity apparently that Asa passed on where he could have even captured the king of Syria. He could have had victory over Baesha, king of Israel, and Ben Hadad, king of Syria, and had a victory over them, much like he had victory over even the greater opponents of the Ethiopians and the Libyans. See the Ethiopians and the Libyans they came with a million men and three hundred chariots. I mean they were a stronger, more powerful force than even the combined force of Baesha king of Israel and Ben Hadai king of Syria. And so God could have given Asa even a greater victory. But a political deal cut in the back room with a little bit of gold and silver trade in hands, like that kind of deal, got him what he wanted, but actually he missed out on something that could have been even greater In verse 9 here, 2 Chronicles 16, 9 becomes one of these verses that we take out of its context and memorize, and I remember hearing this. Back in high school days, for the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to give strong support to those whose heart is blameless toward him. That's true. That is a true statement. It's a good verse. Uh sometimes there's nothing wrong with memorizing universe even if you are taking it out of its context, but it's helpful to see it in its context, because in its context it's a rebuke against a man who would not trust. in the Lord, and who did foolishly instead. Even the rest of the verse, which we don't memorize along with it, you have done foolishly in this, for from now on you will have wars. This is showing us that this is a warning. It's a warning and we need to trust in in the Lord. Asa is has become so self-reliant, really, at this point now. So hard-hearted that he he doesn't even listen to the word of God. Remember earlier in his reign he had listened to the word of God, but now he's not listening to the word of God anymore. He's angry with this prophet, he puts him in prison. He's in a rage and then he's cruel to some of the people. So he goes from being a good king and a gracious king and a humble king and a dependent king and a wise king and a faithful king to being just this Selfish jerk who's self-reliant and angry and mean. He gets sick and gets a disease in his feet. We don't know what the disease in his feet is. Uh it doesn't say exactly what it is, but you know, even when he has a severe foot disease, he doesn't seek help from the Lord. He only seeks help from the physicians. And so he dies in the forty-first year of his reign. So thirty-five years of his reign were good. The last six not so good. Now, was he still a man of saving faith? I think so. I mean, I think you could still say that he was a man who was a good king and who was faithful and who just became self-reliant and foolish and It didn't end well for him or for the people of God under him. It's a sobering reminder to us. You know, I'm 49 years old, I'm going to be turning 50, you know, in about six months, seven months, and you think about things, you think, well, God has been faithful to me thus far, and I've been trusting in Him, and I'm not I'm not perfect in doing that by any means. I often rely on myself and turn away, but God's been faithful and I'm blessed to be where I am. And I I really want to get to, you know, seventy-nine or eighty-nine or however many years God gives me and still be trusting Him and Following him. And so this is a a little splash of cold water to the face and a wake up call to say, Lord, I don't want to become self reliant. Lord, I don't want to become wise in my own eyes. Upon my own ways of doing things. I want to trust you. I want to follow you. So please lead me and please Keep me humble and trusting. Hopefully that's your prayer too. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we need you. We need your grace by your Holy Spirit to keep working. in our hearts to keep us humble, to keep us dependent, to keep us looking to you for all that we need. For you are good and you are unfailing. We fail. We fail all the time. As soon as we rely on ourselves, we fail. So keep us coming back to you, keep us walking with you. Keep us looking to the one hero of the Bible, the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior, and sufficient Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for 2 Chronicles 16 tomorrow. We're going to go right on to chapter 17. Hope you can be there for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.