Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 616. We are in 2 Chronicles Chronicles 35. Continuing the reign of King Josiah as he's going to keep a Passover to the Lord that is going to be a wonderful gathering of God's people under the blood of the Passover. Over Lamb, which is always a picture to us of the gathering in of God's people and worship in the church, isn't it? Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word, which is powerful. living and active, speak to us through your word and convict us and call us after you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Josiah kept a Passover to the Lord in Jerusalem. And they slaughtered the Passover lamb on the fourteenth day of the first month. He appointed the priests to their offices and encouraged them. In the service of the house of the Lord. And he said to the Levites, who taught all Israel and who were holy to the Lord, put the holy ark in the house that Solomon the son of David, king of Israel, built. You need not carry it on your shoulders. Now serve the Lord your God and his people Israel. Prepare yourselves according to your fathers' houses by your divisions, as prescribed in the writing of David, King of Israel Israel and the document of Solomon his son. And stand in the holy place, according to the groupings of the father's houses of your brothers, the laypeople, and according to the division of the Levites by father's houses. and slaughter the Passover lamb and consecrate yourselves and prepare for your brothers to do according to the word of the Lord by Moses. Then Josiah contributed to the laypeople as Passover offerings for all who were present, lambs and young goats from the flock, to the number of thirty thousand. and three thousand bulls. These were from the king's possessions. And his officials contributed willingly to the people, to the priests and to the Levites, Hilkai Zechariah and Jehael, the chief officers of the house of God, gave to the priests for the Passover offerings twenty-six hundred Passover lamb. And three hundred bulls. Konaniah also, and Shemiah and Nathanael, his brothers, and Hashabiah and Giel and Josebad The chiefs of the Levites gave to the Levites for the Passover offerings five thousand lambs and young goats, and five hundred bulls. When the service had been prepared for The priests stood in their place, and the Levites in their divisions according to the king's command, and they slaughtered the Passover land. And the priests through the blood that they received from them, while the Levites flayed their sacrifices, and the same thing. The fathers' houses of the lay people to offer to the Lord as it is written in the book of Moses. And they did so with the bulls, and they roasted the Passover lamb. And afterward they prepared for themselves and for the priests. Because the priests, the sons of Aaron, were offering the burnt offerings and the fat parts until night. So the Levites prepared for themselves and for the priests, the sons of Aaron. The singers, the sons of Asaph, were in their place according to the command of David and Asaph and Hemon and Juduthan the king's seer, and the gatekeepers were at each gate They did not depart. They did not need to depart from their service, for their brothers the Levites prepared for them. So all the service of the Lord was prepared that day to keep the Passover and to offer burnt offerings on the altar of the Lord, according to the command of King Josiah. And the people of Israel who were present kept the Passover at that time and the feast of unleavened bread seven days. days. No Passover like it had been kept in Israel since the days of Samuel the prophet. None of the kings of Israel had kept such a Passover. Passover as was kept by Josiah, and the priests and the Levites, and all Judah and Israel, who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah this Passover was kept. After this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Neko, king of Egypt, went up to fight at Carchimish on the Euphrates. And Josiah went out to meet him. But he sent envoys to him, saying, What have we to do with each other, king of Judah? I am not coming against you this day, but against the house with which I am at war And God has commanded me to hurry, cease opposing God who is with me, lest he destroy you. Nevertheless, Josiah did not turn away from him but disguised himself in order to fight with him. He did not listen to the words of Nico from the mouth of God, but came to fight in the plain of Megida And the archers shot King Josiah. And the king said to his servants, Take me away, for I am badly wounded. So his servants took him out of the chariot and carried him in his second chariot and brought him to Jerusalem. And he died, and was buried in the tombs of his fathers. All Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah. Jeremiah also uttered a lament for Josiah and all the singing men and singers Women have spoken of Josiah in their laments to this day. They made these a rule in Israel. Behold, they are written in the laments. Now the rest of the Acts of Josiah and his good deeds, according to but what is written in the law of the Lord and his Acts, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah, of Israel and Judah. Well, that is uh a a beautiful and then a painful chapter. We see Kind of the pinnacle of Josiah's reforms. It's really if you see this, it's in the 18th year. This is in that that year when the law of the Lord was uncovered and they Read it and Josiah realizes we're supposed to be keeping a Passover and we're supposed to do it every year. We're supposed to do it on the 14th day of the first month. Now there had been one under Hezekiah, but remember they did it in the second month and And the people weren't totally consecrated to God, and so it wasn't done exactly according to the Word of God. This one's being done much more exactly according to the Word of God. They do it on the right day, they do it in the right way. It is the priests who are offering up the sacrifices and the Levites who are serving them. Remember last uh when Hezekiah the the priests hadn't consecrated themselves properly. And so the Levites were more consecrated to God, and so they were offering up the sacrifices. This one's being done better. being done in a more proper and orderly way. And it brings it brings a great blessing. Throughout all the land, the people come and they gather together and they observe the Passover And it's generously supplied by Josiah with 30,000 lambs and goats and 3,000 bulls. Then it's supplied again by the chief officers over the house of God with another twenty six hundred Passover lambs and three hundred bulls, and then all the Levites, they chip in with five thousand lambs and five hundred bulls so you have an an abundance right an abundance some 3800 bulls uh and some uh 37600 Passover lambs This is a lot. Now, individual households who were able could have brought their own Passover land, but this is because there are a lot of poor people in the land who couldn't really uh who couldn't really afford it. And so they they sacrifice. And verse 18 tells us About this Passover, that no Passover like it had been kept in Israel since the days of Samuel the prophet. None of the kings of Israel had kept such a Passover as was kept by Josiah and the priests and the Levites and all Judah and Israel who were present and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Now Hezekiah had kept one. And he had invited people from all over, but again, because there was still a northern kingdom in place, most of the northern kingdom laughed at him. Your Josiah has already torn down the foreign gods and foreign altars, and when he issues the invitation, all of Israel and Judah, basically the whole nation as one. comes together. And this is one of the major emphases in Chronicles is the need for a national unity of all Judah and Israel together. And this is this is the high point. This Passover is a beautiful gathering. And so it's kind of sad that on the heels of this We jump ahead from the eighteenth year all the way to the uh last year of his reign, uh the 31st year, and we see How he dies. And we see that he's warned by Nico himself not to come out and not to oppose him. And Nico even tells him with a word that's given from God to Nico. Yes. Pharaoh Nico, this pagan pharaoh of Egypt, is speaking words that were given to him from God to warn Josiah. And Josiah What he's doing is he's trying to curry favor with the Babylonians. The Assyrians are battling against the Babylonians. Remember I told you it's kind of a transition time. The Assyrians are weaker, the Babylonians are stronger. The Assyrians and Babylonians are in the north fighting with each other. The Assyrians have asked for Egypt to come and help them against Babylon Josiah kind of is seeing that Babylon's going to end up winning this thing. They're going to end up being the power in the area. And so he's trying to curry favor with the Babylonians by going out and opposing uh Nico and the Egyptians. But that was not his battle. I think the lesson here is for the church to realize that the world's battles are not our battles There's a great temptation to look around us and to sort of size up the political landscape and the power plays that are going on in the world and to think that we should jump in and get involved. I think there's a lot of evidence throughout scripture that we should not be doing that. And this is one of those Small one, but a significant one. Josiah should have stayed out of it. This was the world's battle between the world's powers. God's people were called to worship God. and seek the favor of the Lord their God. The Lord their God could protect Israel and Judah. You know, who knows what might have been done Josiah is a young man. He's 39 years old when he's killed in battle. He could have had another 30 years or more to reign. Who knows what could have been done But on the other hand, we have to say his days were numbered, and judgment was going to come on Judah and Jerusalem, just as it had already come on the northern nation of Israel. And And God removed Josiah and in part to speed along what he was already going to do, which was to turn them over into the hand hands of the Babylonians. So that is King Josiah. We need to learn from Josiah faithfulness to the word of God, faithfulness to the right worship of God, and don't get dragged into the world's battles. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this chapter. Thank you for what we can learn from it. We pray that you would strengthen us. in Christ to be faithful ambassadors for Christ, salt and light to the world, but not partisans in the world. That we'd be faithful to our King and His kingdom and that we would worship you rightly and would witness for you rightly. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, tomorrow we we finish up 2 Chronicles with chapter 36. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.