Good morning. Good morning. It's time for walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and we are here in 2 Chronicles Chronicles chapter 7 went a little bit long yesterday with 2 Chronicles chapter 6. It is a long chapter, so we're going to try to keep our comments a little more concise today. Let's ask the Lord Father, you're so good to us. You're good to us every day of our lives. You wake us up, you give us life and health and strength, you give us peace with you through your Son Jesus. Christ, our Savior. You give us your word and you give us your Holy Spirit to help us understand and to receive your word. So we pray that you would be our teacher and that the Holy Spirit would write this word on our Second Chronicles chapter 7, as soon as Solomon finished his prayer, fire came. And the glory of the Lord filled the temple, and the priests could not enter the house of the Lord. When all the people of Israel saw the fire come down and the glory of the Lord on the temple, they bowed down with their faces to the ground on the pavement and worshipped and gave thanks to the Lord, saying, For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Then the king and all the people offered sacrifice before the Lord. King Solomon offered as a sacrifice twenty-two thousand oxen and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the people dedicated The priests stood at their posts. The Levites also, with the instrumentation for music to the Lord that King David had made for giving thanks to the Lord for his own His steadfast love endures forever. Whenever David offered praises by their ministry, opposite them the priests sounded trumpets, and Israel stood. And Solomon consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the Lord, for there he offered the burnt offering and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar Solomon had made could not hold the burnt offering and the green offering and the fat At that time Solomon held the feast for seven days, and all Israel with him a very great assembly, from Lebo Hamath to the brook of Egypt. And on the eighth day they held a solemn assembly, for they had kept the dedication of the altar seven days, and the feast seven days. On the twenty-third day of the seventh month, he sent the people away to their homes, joyful and glad of heart, for the prosperity that the Lord had granted to them. David and to Solomon and to Israel his people. Thus Solomon finished the house of the Lord and the king's house. House, all that Solomon had planned to do in the house of the Lord and in his own house, he successfully accomplished. Then the Lord appeared to Solomon in the night And said to him, I have heard your prayer, and have chosen this place for myself as a house of sacrifice. Or send pestilence among my people, if my people who are called by my name humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land. Now my eyes will be open, and my ears attentive to the prayer that is made in this place. For now I have chosen and consecrated this house that my name may be there forever. My eyes and my heart will be there for all time. And as for you, if you will walk before me as David your father walked, doing according to all that I have commanded you and keeping my statutes and my rules, then I will establish your royal throne as I covenanted with David your father, saying you shall not like a man to rule Israel. But if you turn aside and forsake my statutes and my commandments that I have set before you, and go and serve other gods and worship them, then I will pluck you up from my land that I have given you, and this house that I have consecrated for my name, I will cast out of my sight And I will make it a proverb and a byword among all peoples. And at this house, which was exalted, everyone passing by will be astonished and say, Why has the Lord done us to this land land into this house. Then they will say, because they abandoned the Lord, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt. And laid hold on other gods, and worshipped them and served them. Therefore, he has brought all this disaster on them. That is 2 Chronicles chapter 7. It's God's response to Solomon's prayer. So Solomon prayed his prayer. And God responded first by sending down fire from heaven and consuming the burnt offering and the sacrifice. And filling the temple with the manifest glory of God. And it was so full was the temple with the manifest glory of God that the priest couldn't even enter it. It was just an overwhelming presence of God, of the glory of God, and they could not enter the temple. And all of Israel saw this. This was a very public display. This is something that God consistently does throughout Scripture. I pointed this out a f several times. keep pointing it out. When God acts in significant redemptive historical ways, and that means moving forward with the history of redemption. doing something really significant in the world to advance the story of the redemption of his people. When he does that, he accompanies that With visible signs, miracles that people don't just have to say, well, we should just trust Solomon, or we should just take his word for it. I guess Solomon prayed a nice prayer, so I guess this house is the house. Now, God doesn't do this at every church building dedication today, because that's not really what the church is all about anyway. Um but just as at Pentecost there was the same kind of filling of the place with the manifest glory of God. So here there's a filling of this and all Israel saw it. So they knew they knew that this was where God dwelled and that this is where where God was to be worshipped, which makes it all the more condemning to them that they wandered away from God and went after idols. That Solomon himself allowed his wives to set up idol worship outside the city, and that he himself went after idols. But here we see the good the good beginning here of the temple where they're worshiping together, bowing down with their faces to the pavement, and this refrain, for he is good, for his steadfast love and This is this is a very important part of the creed of God's people. We give thanks to the Lord. Why? For He is good. And His steadfast love. toward us endures forever. God is good in of himself. He's perfect in all of his ways, so he's perfectly good all the time. Whether we see that, whether we know that, whether we feel that, whether we sense that that, whether we experience that, that is the truth. And we need to line up our heart with what we know is true and not allow our definitions of what is true to be to be influenced by the subjective He is good. And his steadfast love, his chesed toward his own people, endures forever, ultimately because of Jesus. Christ. So they worship and they bring King Solomon brings this massive, massive sacrifice. They feasted. When they said they feasted for seven days, if you just consider the amount of meat that's going to come off of twenty-two thousand oxen and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep. Now there were fat portions and portions of that that were just consumed in the fire, but a lot of that was sacrificed so that God's people could feast. God in his worship seeks for his own glory and for the good of his people, for the blessing of his people. So when we come to worship God in spirit and in truth, in faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, expectantly, we come to glorify God for who He is and to receive from Him the blessing that He has for us, that He alone has. for us. So Solomon offers up these sacrifices and they feast for seven days. And then after the fire, God gives this this verbal answer. He speaks. He appears to Solomon. Second time he's appeared to Solomon. He appeared to him in Gibeah to answer his prayer for wisdom. Now he appears to him at the dedication of the temple and says, I've heard your prayer, and I've chosen this place for myself. as a house of sacrifice. Now, 2 Chronicles 7. 14 has become a very, very famous verse if my people who are called by my name humble themselves and pray and seek my And unfortunately, here in America, among American evangelicals, you'll sometimes see that on a T shirt that features the bald eagle and an American flag on a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of cross and this idea that America is God's chosen people is is implied by the the imagery that's This verse, 2 Chronicles 7. 14, is not about America. It is about the church. It is about the people of God. My people who are called by my name. America is not the people of God. called by God's name. We're not. Christians are the people of God called by my name, called by the name of God. We are the ones who need to see that we lack spiritual power. That we lack zeal for the Lord and for His work. We lack a commitment to prayer. What Solomon's prayer is emphasizing is the importance of prayer for the people of God. In whatever circumstance you're in, pray and gather together and pray and pray as the church. One of the most neglected things in the church today is the prayer gathering, the gathering of God's people to pray to his name. And that is That's awful. So my people, Christian people, the church, called by the name of Jesus Christ, must humble ourselves and pray and see Now one more thing I want to say about this is that this warning against unfaithfulness, against apostasy, against Turning aside and neglecting. The church in America, and the church in many parts of the world, does lack in spiritual power, in authority. In zeal, in commitment. We give very little, we pray very little, we read our Bibles very little. We gather together for worship very little. Most most churches have just gotten rid of Sunday school, gotten rid of Sunday evening worship, gotten rid of They've just basically said, let's just have Sunday morning worship and let's try to make it as entertaining as we can for the people so that they'll come. It's the big event of the week. Let's make a big show of it. Let's really just make it so impressive with high production value so people will come and see. That is just, that is just wrong. That is just wrong, wrong, wrong. Church is not an entertaining show to draw a crowd and keep them pleased It is the gathering of God's people to worship Him and hear from Him and respond to Him. And we have been unfaithful to him. We don't believe in the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We don't believe in the power of the Word of God. We don't believe in the things that we say we believe with our hearts. And so we're weak. And so we are ineffective and half-hearted. And there's only one thing that we need, and that is to repent. To repent and seek the Lord. Because God's King is on the thing. throne. The Lord Jesus Christ fulfilled all the commandments of God perfectly. He was even better man after God's own heart than David because he never So we have such a savior, we have such a great high priest, but we need to repent of our worldliness. of our selfishness, of our half-heartedness, of our lukewarmness. Really we're just kind of pathetic And we need to s we need to seek the Lord and cry out to Him. So, Second Chronicles 7 14, yes and amen. We need that. We the church need that. America doesn't need that. They're not even gonna know anything about it until they see it in us. We need to be the church who repents of our sins. who seeks the Lord. Let's pray. Oh Father, we need you. Oh Lord Jesus, we need you. Holy Spirit, we need you. We confess to you that we are too in love with the things of this world. We are too selfish and half-hearted and lazy and uncommitted. We seek what makes us feel good. Instead of the things that please you. Have mercy on us. Forgive our sin and change our hearts By the power of your Holy Spirit, make Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, make our churches alive with the glory of the glory of God, with a passion for the Lord Jesus Christ, with a commitment to your kingdom. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. That is 2 Chronicles chapter 7. Thank you so much for joining me. Tomorrow we're going to be in Hebrews chapter 8. I really hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day on the Lord.