Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bevel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 581 of our three years journey through the Word of God. We come back to Second Chronicles today, back to King Rehoboam, and we had King Rehoboam's foolish start in chapter 10. We had his wise course correction and strength strengthening of Judah and Benjamin in ver in chapter eleven, but now we have judgment coming on because um he abandoned And that is not something that you ought to do. Remember, the Levites who gathered to him, who feared the Lord, they served him faithfully for Three years, and there was that suspense of wait a minute, we know his reign was longer than three years, and we're saying that the Levites served him faithfully for three years, then what? Well, this is the then what chapter So let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Father, thank you for this chapter in your word. We pray that your Holy Spirit would guide us today and grow us in truth and wisdom and understanding. We pray this in Jesus' name. Second Chronicles chapter twelve. When the rule of Rehoboam was established and he was strong, he abandoned the law of the Lord. And all Israel with him. In the fifth year of King Rehoboam, because they had been unfaithful to the Lord, Shishak, king of Egypt, came up against Jerusalem with twelve hundred chariots. and sixty thousand horsemen, and the people were without number who came with him from Egypt, Libyans, Sukim, and Ethiopians. And they took the fortified cities of Judah and came as far as Jerusalem. Then Shemeah the prophet came to Rehoboam and to the princes of Judah who had gathered at Jerusalem because of Shishak. And said to them, Thus says the Lord, You abandoned me, so I have abandoned you to the hand of Shishak. Then the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, The Lord is righteous. When the Lord saw that they humbled themselves, the word of the Lord came to Shema. They have humbled themselves, I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some deliverance, and my wrath shall not be poured out on Jerusalem by the hand of She Nevertheless, they shall be servants to him, that they may know my service and the service of the kingdoms of the countries. So Shishak, king of Egypt, came up against Jerusalem. He took away the treasures of the house of the Lord and the treasures of the king's house. He took away everything He also took away the shields of gold that Solomon had made, and King Rehaboam made in their place shields of bronze, and committed them to the hands of the And when he humbled himself, the wrath of God turned from him. So as not to make a complete destruction. Moreover, conditions were good in Judah. So King Rehoboam grew strong in Jerusalem. Jerusalem and reigned. Now the acts of Rehaboam from first to last are they not written in the chronicles of Shemea the prophet and Ido the Seer? There were continual wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam, and Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David, and Abijah his son reigned in his Second Chronicles twelve. And what we really see here with Rehabalam, I mean, in the end the final assessment at his death was that he did evil. he didn't walk in the way of the Lord. But we see that he really had a very uneven reign. He began in really complete folly. A folly that was foreordained by the Lord, and yet which He freely chose, and for which He is responsible. And yet also we can say it's It's freely chosen by the person and they're responsible for it. And this gives philosophers all sorts of fits to say, well, if it's for ordained by the Lord, it can't be freely chosen. No, that's not true. We just we just have to at that point say, sorry, those two things can both be true because God says they're both true. Human beings are responsible for their actions. God does not compel them into them. He doesn't twist their arm and and and push them to do what they don't really want to do. They do what they want to do. We do what we want to do. We have will. We make decisions. We are free in that sense. Now we're born in slavery to sin and bondage and So, you know, our our freedom is very limited, but still, nonetheless, God doesn't compel choices. Um, He He foreordains them. But that's not the same thing as as you know, sort of forcing us to do them against our will or that we have no real choice in it. We still do have choice, even if it's foreordained. by God. That's that's what the Bible says very clearly over and over again. That's what it requires us to believe. That requires us to believe that God is God. If we are not, he is is to be trusted, his ways are higher than our ways, and if we can't reconcile that inside of our brains, uh it's like I said to one of the guys at the men's study uh early Earlier this week I said we might as well try to teach calculus to a grasshopper as to try to explain all the ways of God to a human mind. We simply cannot hold it in our heads. It would blow us apart. Many, many times over. It's beyond us, yet it's true. Here we see another example of it, and that it seems like this faithfulness of Rehoboam Brings upon Jerusalem Shishak, king of Egypt, and to destroy them. You abandon me, so I've abandoned you. That's it, you're done. But King Rehoboam and the princes of Israel, they humble themselves and they say, The Lord is righteous. The Lord, he does what is right and good. We have not, we have abandoned him, we deserve this. They're humbled. And as they're humbled, the word of the Lord says, I'm not going to destroy them. I'll grant them some deliverance. My wrath will not be poured out on them by the I am going to plunder them. I am going to make them servants to Shishak. They're going to know some some longer-term humility. Not just a moment of humility, but some longer-term humility. But I'm not going to destroy them. And so we're told that he did not make a complete destruction. In verse 12, when he humbled himself, the wrath of the Lord turned from him so as not to make a complete destruction. destruction. Moreover, conditions were good in Judah. So was God really going to destroy Jerusalem? And, you know, end it hundreds of years earlier than he would have otherwise? Or not I think on one level we have to say, had King Rehoboam and the princes of Israel not repented, God would have done that. But it wasn't God's will to do that. It wasn't time yet. And so they did repent, and God did turn back from destroying them. Again, we see this interplay between The sovereignty of God which overrides everything and undergirds everything and is always accomplished, and yet operating within the framework of divine sovereignty, human freedom and respect. God's plan, and so they did repent, and so God did withhold uh the complete destroying wrath from them. And again, can we understand this? No. But is it important that we affirm this? Yes. We cannot go in a direction of a mechanistic sort of absolutist hyper-Calvinism that is that is removes human responsibility and says, well we're all just cogs in the machine and God does what God's going to do and it doesn't really matter what we do. We are just helpless puppets or robots or pre-programmed machines and we just do whatever God foreordains that we do. We can't go in that direction. It's not allowed by Scripture. We are responsible for our choices. We make real choices. We also can't go in the direction that says, well, because we make our choices and our choices are free, God has to sort of sit back and wait and watch. until after we've made our decisions and then he'll decide what to do, in which case God is not the sovereign Lord of history. He hasn't foreordained things. He's sort of sitting on the edge of his seat waiting to see what's going to happen next Well that's not true either, right? That's not true either. And a great verse for this was actually another one brought up by one of the men. at our men's study on Wednesday morning. And that is when Peter is preaching at the day of Pentecost. He's preaching to the men of Israel. And he says to them, Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God, with mighty works and wonders that God did through him in your midst. As you yourselves know, this Jesus delivered up according to the divine plan and foreknowledge of God. You crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it So, was the death of Jesus according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God? Yes. Did he lay down his life for the sins of the world? Yes. Did God give his son as an offering for salvation for his people? Yes. Were the leaders in Jerusalem responsible for their conspiracy to have Jesus arrested and killed by the hands of lawless men? Yes. Did they make those choices? Yes. Did they plot against him? Yes. Are they accountable for that? Yes. And we see this as clear as can be here in verse 23. Jesus was delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. But he was delivered over by the leadership in Jerusalem to be crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. God is absolutely sovereign, and people are accountable for their actions. And exactly how that works together, you'd have to be God to fully understand. But the truth of it is as clear as anything that is taught in Scripture. Scripture. So, let's pray. Father, thank you that you are the sovereign Lord of all. We thank you for You know, without it we'd have no salvation. We'd have no hope that we would really be saved because you would be dependent upon the whims and fancies of people. But you accomplish your purposes perfectly without fail. And yet we are accountable for what we choose to do, and you tell us uh to trust in you and to honor you and And there are there are consequences when we turn away from you. These are real. So help us, Father, to take your word to heart, all of your word to heart. That gives us hope and confidence in your sovereign goodness, and that also gives us humility. and obedience uh when we realize our accountability before you. We need you. We need you to be the Lord who changes our hearts as well as the Lord who directs all of history for your Glory. We pray to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well that is Second Chronicles chapter 12. Tomorrow is Mike's turn to come back for chapter 13. So Look forward to that with you. Have a blessed day in the Lord.