Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 615th day together in God's Word. We're coming toward the end of 2 Chronicles, so instead of two days in a row in 2 Chronicles, we're actually going to have three. So we can do 34, 35, and 36. and be done with 2 Chronicles, and then we'll go to 2 John. So that's kind of what's in tap for the next few days. So we come to King Josiah. Josiah is probably my favorite of all the Old Testament kings. He was young. He was passionately devoted to the Lord. He made a thorough reformation after a long period of unfaithfulness since the days of Hezekiah really. Manasseh and Amon had largely led the nation astray, although Manasseh did have a time of repentance at the end of his life. That was quickly undone by Amon. So he's got a father and a grandfather who both left him a a troubled legacy, and yet he, at eight years old, um, wants to honor the Lord and Um as soon as he really comes of age, um, in his twelfth year at the age of twenty, he begins to m in uh put into place some really strong reforms in Jerusalem and in Judah. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we turn to this chapter today. Father in heaven, thank you for loving us with a love that is strong and faithful. We need you. We are so weak and so uh unstable, unfaithful, prone to wander. We need you, we need your Holy Spirit, we need your King. King Jesus to rule and reign over us, to subdue us to himself. We need your Holy Spirit to lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. So we ask that you would be our teacher and our guide today as we go into second chronicles thirty thirty four. May the truths of this chapter be impressed upon our minds and hearts, and may we respond in faith and obedience, and may we love Jesus and follow him better for the time we spend with you in your word. Today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, 2 Chronicles 34. Josiah was eight years old. when he began to reign. And he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem, and he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. seek the God of his father David. And in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem of the high places, the Asherim, and the carved and metal images. And they chopped down the altars of the Baals in his presence, and he cut down the incense altars that stood above them. And he broke in pieces the asherim and the carved and the metal images, and he made dust of them, and scattered it over the graves of those who had sacrificed to them He also burned the bones of the priests on their altars and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem. And in the cities of Manasseh. Ephraim and Simeon, as far as Naphtali, in their ruins all around, he broke down the altars and beat the ash. And the images into powder, and cut down all the incense altars throughout all the land of Israel. Then he returned to Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Now, in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had cleansed the land and the house He sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah, and Maesseah, the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz, the recorder, to repair the house of the Lord his God. They came to Hilkiah the high priest, and gave him the money that had been brought into the house of God, which the Levites, the keepers of the threshold, had collected from Manasseh and Ephraim, and from all the remnant of Israel. Israel, and from all Judah and Benjamin, and from the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And they gave it to the workmen who were working in the house of the Lord And the workmen who were working in the house of the Lord gave it for repairing and restoring the house. They gave it to the carpenters and the builders to buy quarried stone and timber for binders and beams for the buildings. that the kings of Judah had let go to ruin, and the men did the work faithfully Over them were set Jehath and Obadiah the Levites of the sons of Varari and Zechariah and Meshulem of the sons of the Kohites to have oversight. The Levites, all who were skilled with instruments and music, were over the burden bearers, and directed all who did work of every kind of service. While they were bringing out the money that had been brought into the house of the Lord, Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law of the Lord given through Moses. Then Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the secretary, I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan. Shaphan brought the book to the king And further reported to the king, all that was committed to your servants, they are doing. into the hand of the overseers and the workmen. Then Shaphan the secretary told the king, Hilkiah the priest has given me a book. And Shaphan read from it before the king And when the king heard the words of the law, he tore his clothes, and the king commanded Hilkiah. Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Abdon the son of Micah, Shaphan the secretary, and Asiah the king's servant, saying Go, inquire of the Lord for me, and for those who are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the words of the book that has been found For great is the wrath of the Lord that is poured out on us, because our fathers have not kept the word of the Lord to do according to all that is written in this book. So Hilkiah and those whom the king had sent to Holdah, the prophetess, the wife of Shalom, the son of Tokoth, son of Hazrah, keeper of the wardrobe. Now she lived in Jerusalem in the second quarter, and spoke to her And she said to them, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, tell the man who sent you to me, thus says the Lord Behold, I will bring disaster upon this place and upon its inhabitants. all the curses that are written in the book that was read before the king of Judah, because they have forsaken me and have made offerings to other gods. That they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands, therefore my wrath will be poured out on this place, and will not be quenched. But To the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the Lord, thus you shall say to him, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, regarding the words that you have heard. Because your heart was tender and you humbled yourself before God, when you heard the words against this place and its inhabitants, and you have humbled yourself before me, and have torn your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you declare declares the Lord. Behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in Peace, and your eyes shall not see all the disaster that I will bring upon this place and its inhabitants. And they brought back word to the king. King. Then the king sent, and gathered all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem, and the king went up to the house of the Lord with all the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Of Jerusalem and the priests and the Levites, all the people, both great and small, and he read in their hearing all the words of the book of the covenant that had been found And the king stood in his place and made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord, and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart and with all his soul and the same thing. Then he made all who were present in Jerusalem and in Benjamin join in it, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God. And Josiah took away all the abominations from all the territory that belonged to the people of Israel, and made all who were present in Israel serve the Lord their God. All his days he did not turn away from following the Lord, the God of their fathers. That last sentence of chapter thirty Will tell you why Josiah is my favorite king. Because all his days The people of Israel, the people of God, did not turn away from following the Lord, the God of their fathers. Others started well, but poorly, others started poorly though they ended well, others started well and did well but then got proud and Now Josiah's not perfect. He's going to make a very uh foolish decision that's going to lead to his death. Um but he is a very much a model of what a faithful human king should look like. Not perfect. Of course only Jesus is the faithful king, but he is still a faithful king. He's eight years old when he begins to reign. He reigns 31 years in Jerusalem, so he is 39 years old. When he dies, and a 31-year reign, he really doesn't start to make these reforms until the twelfth year of his reign So you have to take that 31 and subtract 12 from it and you really end up with 18 years, uh right, 19 years, of good, strong reform that is being done. through Josiah. And it is in the eighteenth year of his reign that they find the book of the law of the Lord. So that's another six years off. So you've really got thirteen years of scriptural, biblical reform. So there were already six years of reform happening when he did all these uh you know, getting rid of all the false gods, but there were false ways that the people were worshiping God. There were still abominations, high places, and things like that. Um He got rid of the foreign god. So there always were, it sometimes is difficult for us to keep this straight, but there always were two major categories of worship unfaithfulness. Among God's people. The worst one was the worship of foreign gods, the asherem, the baals, uh, the images of foreign gods And those were the worst. And of course, the worst of those, Molech and some related gods, the Ammonites, that required human sacrifice. sacrifice, the the burning of infant children in the uh burning arms of Molech. So that's the bad bad stuff. But then there's also the high places Which were usually dedicated to Yahweh, but that's not how God wanted to be worshipped. So it's worshiping the one true God, but in a pagan way. So there's worshiping pagan gods. And then there's worshiping the one true God in a pagan way. Both of those are bad. Only Hezekiah and Josiah had a thorough reformation where they got rid of both kinds. The other good kings that we've seen who got rid of the foreign gods were almost always told they didn't get rid of the high places. And what that means is the false worship of Yahweh was still there. But Josiah, we're told specifically, he's given the law of the Lord, he's given the law of the Lord given through Moses. And he humbles himself and he tears his clothes and he repents and he seeks the Lord and he says, This is the standard, but we didn't know it. We're so grossly in violation of this. Even after you know, six years of reform of getting rid of all the false gods and cleaning out the altars and putting the priests to death and scattering their ashes on the gra you know, all this stuff They only knew they wanted to be faithful to Yahweh and they wanted to get rid of the other gods. So but he's really unique in this idea that they find the law of God, they read the law of God to him, and he's cut to the core. And And he repents and he leads all of Israel in repentance. Another unique thing about him that isn't true of any earlier kings is uh in verse six here at the bottom of your screen, in he's able to go up to the cities of Manasseh, Ephraim, Simeon. As far as Naphtali, in their ruins all around, and he breaks down their altars, and he beats the ashram and the images into powder, and he cuts down Now Hezekiah earlier had sent word to the northern tribes and had invited them to come to the Passover. And they did come to the Passover, but most of the people laughed at his messengers. But some people did come, and the people who came to the Passover were changed, and many of them went back and uh started Reformation projects within their local communities. But here you have the king and he's able to go throughout all the land. Now how is he able to go throughout all the land? It's because the northern kingdom of Israel has been taken captive by the Assyrians. But now we're in kind of a transition where the Assyrians are weaker and the Babylonians are rising and the Egyptians are still threatening and so It's kind of a period of political instability, and so while the northern kingdom of Israel has been conquered by the Assyrians and has been settled with foreign people Remember those foreign people came in and they wanted to worship the God of that land, the God of Yahweh Yahweh the the God of that land So Josiah is able to go up and say, you know, get rid of all these false foreign gods, and we're only going to worship the God uh Yahweh, who is the Lord of Israel. Israel. And so he's the only one, he's the only king who's able to get throughout the northern kingdom, and he's the only one who's able then to get rid of all the false gods, all the altars, all the incense altars. throughout all the land of Israel. Prior to that, the most faithful kings of Judah could only do what they could do within Judah if they couldn't get up into Israel. Another interesting thing about the two great kings, Hezekiah and Josiah, is that each one of them are closely connected to one of the great prophets. Hezekiah's reign And during the great crisis moment of Hezekiah's reign, when the Assyrians have devastated the fortified cities of Judah and they're pressing in on Jerusalem and they're saying all these horrible threatening things like, we'll give you two thousand horses if you can just find riders on them. You can't oppose the least of the captains of my army, much less the whole army. And they're mocking God and saying, Don't trust Yahweh to deliver you. None of the other gods of the other nations were able to deliver them. During that moment it was Hezekiah and Isaiah together who sought the Lord, and the Lord answered and brought victory. And so Hezekiah's kingship and Isaiah's prophetic ministry are closely Josiah's kingship is closely tied to the prophet Jeremiah. And while we don't see Jeremiah here in this chapter yet, we do see his dad. Jeremiah was Jeremiah bar Hilkiah of the priests of Anathoth. He was Jeremiah, the son of Hilkiah, of the priests. We have Hilkiah the high priest right here. That is Jeremiah's dad. Um, Hilkiah the High Priest. And so as far as we know, um that is his dead. And so he is really leading the Reformation within the the priestly class. Right? They're doing the cleaning up of the temple, they're uncovering the law of God, they're bringing it to the king They're doing what the king tells them to do. They're repairing the house with carpentry and with quarried stone and with timber and with beam. and they do the work faithfully, and then they're appointing Levites over the house of the Lord. So this is good, orderly. Service. It's another reminder that is throughout scripture of the good kings is that part of what makes them good kings is they know that they're not the only ones who are called to lead They're not the only ones who are called to do the work, and they enlist others and they train others and they give others responsibility and the others run their aspect. Of the ministry faithfully. And that is something that elders are supposed to be doing in the church today. Pastors and elders should be leading. And preaching and teaching and shepherding, but they also also should be calling people to serve and people who have gifts and people who have abilities should be dedicating their time to the service of The house of God and the church and doing what God has given them to do. It might be working in the nursery, it might be serving food, it might be hosting A Bible study in your home. It might be leading a Bible study, teaching a Sunday school class, doing an outreach ministry to shut-ins, you know, whatever it is, everyone in the church is called to serve as an active part of the body. and under the oversight of the elders and the deacons. And we see that pattern. Whenever there is good reform, it's always well organized and has a number of people who are leading different aspects of it. Well the last thing I want to look at is Hulda, the prophetess, and You know, it's a sobering word that comes from Holdah. They they send word, Hilkiah sends word to Holdah the prophetess. Um I'm not sure if well, they they send word to Holda the prophetess and she says, basically, the Lord has proclaimed, I'm gonna bring disaster upon this pl And it's inescapable. It's going to happen. You know, basically the people of Jerusalem and Judah and Benjamin Shown, just like people of Israel, if they're given free reign, if they're allowed to do what they want to do, they consistently turn away from the Lord, they consistently chase after the gods of the nations, they are consistently unf faithful. It's only when they are forced by the king to get rid of their idols and get rid of their altars and get rid of their high places that they follow the Lord. And so God's saying, that's it. I'm gonna wipe this place out. I'm going to pour out my wrath. But Because Josiah has a tender heart, because he has humbled himself before God, I am going to Make sure that he is gathered to his fathers in peace, and that he will not see the disaster that I'm going to bring upon Jerusalem. We don't we're not given exactly how Josiah responded to this word, but it must have been uh Mixed feeling, right? Oh, I'm so glad the Lord has seen my humility and he's seen my humble heart and my earnest desire to I'm so glad that the Lord is looking with favor upon the reforms that I'm doing, but I'm heartbroken that my people, whom I love, are so stubborn that they're going to receive the judgment of God after my days. So he he makes the covenant with the people and he teaches them, you know, this is Perhaps his attempt to say, if I can get the people to really own this for themselves, if I can get the people to really internalize and to desire obedience, perhaps the Lord would have mercy. Mercy on all of us. And so he does the best thing he can do, which is to read the Word of God, to make a covenant, to have people teach the Word of God. and to try to hold the people accountable to it. And and it works as long as his reign lasts. But the hearts of the people being prone to wander They do soon wander away. So we have, of course, the Greater King. I've been saying this over and over again, but it's really important that we understand that we have the greater king who through the ministry of the Holy Spirit works in the hearts of each believer, of each Member, true member of the body of Christ. And when we go astray, the Holy Spirit draws us back. When we sin, the Holy Spirit convicts us. us. Now we can resist the Holy Spirit. We can grieve the Holy Spirit of God who is in us, but we have something that the people of God at this time, the the masses Within Judah and Jerusalem didn't have. We have each believer has the constant indwelling presence of the third person of the Trinity. Who is sent to us by our King to not just teach us externally, but to teach us internally. And we need to be so thankful for that because it's Jesus' death and resurrection. And ascension as our victorious King that secured the gift of the Holy Spirit for us, and we need to follow the Holy Spirit. We need to follow the Word of God as taught to us by the Spirit of God and not Violate what the Holy Spirit is speaking to us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your love and your faithfulness, undeserved but so wonderful and so needed. We praise you for for them. We ask that you would keep us in your spirit, walking in the spirit, being led by the spirit, that we might honor you with all of our lives, not just with an external conformity to an expected standard, but from an internal desire to please you with all that we are. We pray that This in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for fur uh second Chronicles 34 tomorrow. On to chapter 35. Have a blessed day in the Lord.