Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome back to 2 Chronicles chapter 24. And last time we were in 2 Chronicles a couple days ago, we saw that Atheliah had been put to death. She had taken over As Queen Mother, she had usurped the throne and tried to kill all the sons and one was this was uh rescued Joash. And now when he was seven years old, the people, the the the priests and Levites really led uh uh a a reformational movement to put him on the throne as the son of David. as the way it should be. And so it wasn't really an insurrection or treason. What she was doing was insurrection and treason. What they were doing was putting things back to the way that God had commanded. So now we'll pick up with Joash's reign today. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your love. Thank you for loving us with perfect patience and Faithfulness, thank you that you keep your promises always and that they never fail. We ask that you be with us as we look in 2 Chronicles 24 today, that you would be our teacher and our guide. That you would help us to see your truth, to see your character, to see your calling for our lives, and to see Christ more clearly. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Well, you may have noticed there's a typo on the screen, and I apologize for that. But we'll fix it. This is day five ninety-nine, and we're in Second Chronicles twenty-four. How about that? Instead of leaving up the old one. Alright, 2 Chronicles 24. Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zibia of Beersheba. And Joash did what was right in the eyes of the Lord all the days of Jehoiada the priest. Jehoiada got for him two wives, and he had sons and daughters. After this, Joash decided to restore the house of the Lord, and he gathered the priests and the Levites and said to them, Go out to the cities of Judah. And gather from all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that you act quickly. But the Levites did not act quickly. So the king summoned Jehoiada the chief and said to him, Why have you not required the Levites to bring in from Judah and Jerusalem the tax levied by Moses, the servant of the Lord? and the congregation of Israel for the tent of testimony. For the sons of Atheliah, that wicked woman, had broken into the house of God and had used all the dedicated things of the house of the Lord for the veils. So the king commanded, and they made a chest, and set it outside the gate of the house of the Lord. And proclamation was made throughout Judah and Jerusalem to bring in for the Lord the tax that Moses the servant of God laid on Israel in the wilderness. And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brought their tax and dropped it into the chest until they had finished. And whenever the chest was brought to the king's officers by the Levites, when they saw there was much money in it, the king's secretary and the officer of the chief priest would come and empty the chest and take it and return it to its place. Thus they did day after day, and collected money in abundance, and the king and Jehoiada gave it to those who had charge of the work of the house of the Lord. And they hired masons and carpenters to restore the house of the Lord, and also workers in iron and bronze to repair. the house of the Lord. So those who were engaged in the work labored, and the repairing went forward in their hands, and they restored the house of God to its proper condition and strengthened it. And when they had finished, they brought in the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada, who wit and with it were made utensils for the house of the Lord, both for the service and for the burnt offerings. and dishes for incense and vessels of gold and silver, and they offered burnt offerings in the house of the Lord regularly all the days of Jehoiada. But Jehoiada grew old and full of days and died. He was 130 years old at his death. And they buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done good in Israel and toward God and his house. Now after the death of Jehoiada The princes of Judah came and paid homage to the king. The king listened to them, and they abandoned the house of the Lord, the God of their fathers, and served the asherem and the idols. And wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this guilt of theirs. Yet he sent prophets among them to bring them back to the Lord. These testified against them, but they would not pay attention. Then the Spirit of God clothed Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada the priest, and he stood above the people and said to them, Thus says God. Why do you break the commandments of the Lord so that you cannot prosper? Because you have forsaken the Lord, he has forsaken you But they conspired against him, and by command of the king they stoned him with stones in the court of the house of the Lord. Thus Joash the king did not remember the kindness that Jehoiada Zechariah's father had shown him, but killed his son And when he was dying, he said, May the Lord see and avenge. At the end of the year, the army of the Syrians came up against Joash. They came to Judah and Jerusalem, and destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and sent all their spoil to the king of Damascus Though the army of the Syrians had come with few men, the Lord delivered into their hand a very great army, because Judah had forsaken the Lord, the God of their fathers Thus they executed judgment on Joash. When they departed from him, leaving him severely wounded, his servants conspired against him because of the blood of Jehoiada the priest. and killed him on his bed. So he died. And they buried him in the city of David, but they did not bury him in the tombs of the kings. Those who conspired against him were Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonite and Jehoshabad the son of Shimrith the Moabite Accounts of his sons, and of the many oracles against him, and of the rebuilding of the house of God, are written in the story of the book of the Kings, and Amaziah his son reigned in his Oh, Joash, Joash, Joash. Really the story of two completely different reigns, right? Such joy, picking up at the end of Second Chronicles twenty-three, all the land rejoiced, the city was quiet, after Atheliah had been put to death with the sword, and Joash was seven years old when he began to reign It was joy because here a wicked woman who had taken over, usurped power, uh set aside the Davidic dynasty, seemed to undermine The very promises of God, the very covenant of God with David. And so all looked lost because of Jehoiada the priest, because of the faithfulness of the Levites. She was Set aside, Joash was put back on the throne, a son of David once again ruled in Jerusalem, and everything was good. And as long as Jehoiada was there, as long as Jehoiada who was the spiritual advisor and mentor to Joash was there. Joash did what was right. And there's this wonderful rebuilding of the temple. The temple had fallen into serious neglect and disrepair because everything in it had been taken out of it and used in the service of the Baals. The Baals is a reference to a number of different gods of the Canaanites who were associated with different forces of nature. So they were engaging in pagan idolatry. Nature worship, abandoning the Lord, the one true God, and now it's being restored. And it's just such a positive story. I mean, at first it seems like what's going on? Because there's sort of sloth on behalf of the Levites and maybe a reluctance to go out and actively collect the tax. You could imagine the Levites Because they had been disrespected and disregarded and set aside for so long, maybe they were hesitant to go out into the villages and tell people, you know, God's law commands this tax, so you need to pay it. They didn't want to be tax collectors, although that was part of their responsibility. And so a new plan is made to set up uh a box and to have everybody come and bring the offering. So they put a chest uh by the gate to the entrance of the temple and they sent out a proclamation from the king that says, remember what God commanded. So this is reformation and restoration according to the word of God, not according to the imaginations of men. Not according to the greed of the king, not according to the ambitions of the Levites, but according to the word of the Lord. And that is what the church really needs. This is a picture that I think we need to pick up here and hang on to. What does the church need? We live in a time when the church, in terms of the gospel proclaiming faith professing, Bible believing, gospel church in America especially, has fallen into disrepair. We are the living temple of God and we've fallen into disrepair. There's been spiritual weakness and worldly compromise and declining attendance and you know dilapidated churches and many of the mainline churches have gone astray and they no longer even profess the one true faith and the one true God or believe in the Bible or proclaim the gospel and so we fall into dis disrepair. What do we need? Do we need some really ambitious visionary leader who's gonna w you know Make the church great again? No, we need reformation and restoration according to the word of the Lord. And that takes the people Being committed to doing what God tells us to do. How is the church built up? Prayer, preaching of the word, sharing of the gospel? Taking part in the sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper, not neglecting the gathering of ourselves together to encourage one another on toward love and good deeds, the practice of hospitality, right? This this is the regular life of the church that is depicted for us in the book of Acts, that is commanded to us in scripture very clearly, and we need reformation. and restoration according to the word of the Lord. And I think that is the big positive lesson that we need to learn from 2 Chronicles 24. The negative lesson, the warning is not to get complacent. Don't get complacent. And maybe that's part of what happened to the gospel church in America is that we felt like we were doing really well. Like we had the the influence and we had the wealth and we had the buildings and we had the success and we had the growth. But things can change. And things changed in Joash's reign when Jehoiada died. The princes of the people the politicians of the land, the power people, the money people, they were the ones who apparently came in and contributed gladly to the church earlier. But now they come in and they basically say to Joash You know, that Jehoiada, he was a real stick in the mud. He was such a stickler. Yahweh this and Yahweh that. Like there's only one God. There's lots of gods, and we should honor all of them. And Joash is like, well yeah, it makes sense to honor all the gods. Why just honor one God? And so they abandoned the house of the Lord, the God of their fathers, and they served the ashram and the idols. They went out and they corrupted the people with the worship of that which is not God, false gods. And God sends a prophet. It's the son of Jehoiada, it's Zechariah the priest, and he comes. And he is cut down. He is killed by conspiracy It's hard to believe. I mean Joash was so blessed and so favored and so well established under Jehoiada that Joash would partake in a conspiracy to kill his son. When his son speaks a word against him, don't get complacent. Don't ever think, I'm all right, I'm good, like I don't need to I don't need to be watchful and prayerful. You know, I can I can be lax. I can sort of let my guard down. I can compromise with the world a little bit. It's okay. It's okay. Right? We need to we need to avoid that because when that comes, disaster comes, and that disaster is going to end here with the assassination of Joash. And Jehoiada the priest is buried among the kings But Joash the king is not buried among the kings. Ah, what a sad fate. So a call to the church, I think, to Reformation and restoration according to the Word of God. We need to be praying for that. Let's pray. If everybody who's In on these devotionals, let's commit ourselves to praying that the church, for a still Presbyterian Church, whatever church you go to, the churches that God has called us to be a part of, that we would be reformed and restored by the Spirit of God according to the Word of God. that we would be faithful in being the church that God calls us to be, and doing the work that God calls us to do, and trusting in God and worshiping Him from the heart, and that He would reform us and restore us. to where we can be salt and light and glorify God in the midst of our generation and not be complacent and not be compromising. And not be cold-hearted, but earnestly seeking after that reformation and restoration. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. It is good. It is a good word. We need to hear it. Your church needs your spirit, your word to guide us, your king to rule over us, your ways to be our ways. Forgive us for having the world's ways be our ways and not having your ways be our ways. Reform us according to the Word of God. Restore us by your grace and for your glory, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, tomorrow we're going to see Amaziah take the throne in 2 Chronicles 25. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.