Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word. One chapter per day on Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Preston Church, day 585 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We come to 2 Chronicles chapter 15. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are good. Always. You fail never. You change never. You are constant, and you are the rock of our salvation. You are the foundation of our lives, and you are the goal of our faith And the one we were made by and the one we were made for. Thank you for your word that reveals your heart to us. Thank you for calling us to study your word and to grow in knowing you through your word. Would you please grow us today? Would your Holy Spirit please come and be our teacher? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So we've been in the reign of Asa. Who's one of the better kings in the history of Judah? And we've seen some good things come from his military preparations that he was able to make because he was blessed with peace. He served the Lord and sought the Lord. Now we're going to take a look, a closer look at some of these religious reforms that Asa led. In Judah. Second Chronicles 15. The Spirit of God came upon Azariah, the son of Oded, and he went out to meet Asa. And said to him, Hear me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin. The Lord is with you while you are with him. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will forsake you. For a long time Israel was without the true God and without a teaching priest and without law. But when in their distress they turned to the Lord, the God of Israel, and sought him, he was found by them. In those times there was no peace to him who went out or to him who came in, for great disturbances afflicted all the inhabitants of the land. They were broken in pieces. Nation was crushed by nation and city by city. For God troubled them with every sort of distress. But you take courage. Do not let your hands be weak, for your work shall be As soon as Asa heard these words, the prophecy of Azariah the son of Obed, Oded, he took courage and put away the detestable idols from all the land of Judah and Benjamin. and from the cities that he had taken in the hill country of Ephraim, and he repaired the altar of the Lord that was in front of the vestibule of the house of the Lord. And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin and those from Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon who were residing with them, for great numbers had deserted to him from Israel when they saw that the Lord his God was with him They were gathered at Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa. They sacrificed sheep to the I'm sorry, they sacrificed to the Lord on that day. from the spoil they had brought, seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep. And they entered into a covenant to seek the Lord, the God of their fathers, with all their heart and with all their soul, but that whoever would not seek the Lord Lord, the God of Israel, should be put to death. Whether young or old, man or woman, they swore an oath to the Lord with a loud voice and with shouting and with trumpets and with horns. And all Judah rejoiced over the oath, for they had sworn with all their heart, and had sought him with their whole desire, and he was found by them, and the Lord gave them rest all around. Even Maekah, his mother, King Asa removed from being Queen Mother, because she had made a detestable image for Asherah. Asa cut down her image, crushed it. and burned it at the brook Kidron. But the high places were not taken out of Israel. Nevertheless, the heart of Asa was wholly true all his days, and he brought into the house of God the sacred gifts of his father and the sacred gifts of and his own sacred gifts, silver and gold and vessels, and there was no more war until the thirty-fifth year of the reign of Asa 2 Chronicles 15 is uh a powerful chapter really in the history of Judah, one of the the great religious reforms. Now greater ones would be led by Hezekiah. And by Josiah, because they would even go so far as to get rid of the high places. But short of that, Asa's religious reforms, his reforms for the people of God, are The strongest, among the strongest we see in the history of God's people. It's very powerful and very faithful. And it's stimulated, we're told here. by a prophet, Azariah, the son of Oded. We don't know anything about Azariah the son of Oded other than that he was named Azariah and his dad's name was Oded and he was a prophet. But we hear the word that he speak. speaks to Asa. And not only to Asa, but to all of Judah and Benjamin. And they're being commended because Asa has already been seeking the Lord. But there's work to be done. You can seek the Lord with sincerity, but not necessarily be doing it properly. I think about my own life, and I can go back to, you know, I've I've known the Lord. pretty much all of my life and particularly in high school, I really began to grow deeper in a love for the Lord and a passion for the Lord. But sometimes it was a love and a passion for the Lord that was without knowledge, that didn't have the proper discipline, that didn't have the proper theology, that didn't have the proper proper form. And that's kind of where Asa was early on in his reign. He he was with the Lord and he he loved the Lord and he was seeking the Lord, but there was just a lot that needed to be done. And so Azariah comes and reminds them of their history and how when they've been without the true God and without a teaching priest and without the law, and again to teach the law helps the people of God live according to the word of God and that's how you get that right form and that right doctrine and that right uh faithfulness to what God requires and not just a heart that means well but a sort of Scatter shot all over the place. And so it is it is according to the word of the Lord. They went for a long time without a teaching priest and without the law. But when they sought the Lord, God was gracious to them, but now they needed To not let their hands be weak and to take courage and to do what needs to be done. And what needed to be done was to put away detestable idols to repair the altar of the Lord, to restore the right worship of God. And so he does that. And as he's doing this It's very evident that the Lord is with him, that the Lord is with Judah, and that they are prospering. They're able to defeat the Egyptians. We have chapter 14 his background for this, the spoil that they bring of seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep. Where did they get that? Well just remember what we learned yesterday in chapter fourteen. They had this great war against the Ethiopians. And they won a great victory against the Ethiopians. That's where the oxen and the sheep came from. This was their their tithe to the Lord of what they had been able to capture in battle from the Ethiopians. And so, as they're doing these things, it's so obvious that the Lord is with them that you have not only Judah and Benjamin. Now, remember, Rehoboam and his folly had lost ten tribes But the Levites did largely come. So now you have three tribes in the south, Judah, Benjamin, and large parts of Levi. But now you're also getting people from Ephraim, Manasseh, and Sinian. So now you've got six tribes. that have substantial representation within the kingdom of Judah because they are seeking the Lord. And so they get together and they not only sacrifice, but they enter into a covenant. Covenants are the normal way that God uh relates to his people. It's the way he administers his his relationship with his people and his His uh will to his people and the way his people pledge their allegiance to him. A covenant is a relationship that is set up with a legal framework Um but it is so it's love, but it's love within the framework of obligation and commitment and promise. So marriage is a covenant. And we have signs of the covenant, like the marriage ring that's a sign of the covenant made between husband and wife, and you wear it and it reminds you of the promises that you made and the relationship that you entered into, which has a legally binding force and is founded on promises. And that's what it is. And so here the people of God are saying, God's already given us a covenant in the covenant of Moses, but we want a covenant with God That we're going to seek the Lord, that we're going to seek the Lord with all of our heart and with all of our soul, and that if anyone among us refuses to seek the Lord, they're done. We're not going to have them living among us anymore And there's a great joy over this. There is a wholehearted desire to be sincerely dedicated to the Lord. And so the Lord gives them rest all around. Um Asa is so thorough in his reforms that even his mom comes under the reforming uh hand and he takes her Asherah. Asherah was the fertility goddess and And he takes her Asherah image and cuts it down, crushes it, and burns it. I mean, he just completely defaces it. And that is, you know, that's mom's homemade idol. But even mom's homemade idol does not escape from Asa's faithfulness to the Lord. The only thing that's not done Is that uh the high places are not taken down. Now the high places, we're told that in verse 17, the high places were places within Judah where people were worshiping the Lord. They were worshiping Yahweh. But they weren't coming to the temple to do it, and they weren't doing it really according to the law of God. So they were seeking the Lord, but they were doing so according to pagan patterns and practices. And so that was, you know, really uh not good. And only Hezekiah and Josiah would go so far as to take down even the highest places. And again, these high places are dedicated to Yahweh, to the Lord, to the one true God. So what do we learn from this? Well we learn from this that if we want to love God We have to love God in the way that God says He wants us to love Him, right? If you're married, if you are in a committed relationship like that, you know that it's not enough to just say that you love your wife or to do the things that you think from your heart would communicate love to your wife, you have to love your wife in a way that she wants to be loved. And same thing, women, you have to love your husbands in ways that he wants to be loved. That's communicating love. Now here, God is the king. He's the Lord. He's the ruler. He's our savior and our redeemer our maker and our sustainer. And if he tells us this is how I want to be loved, then we need to do it that way. Now we don't offer sacrifices anymore because Jesus is the once for all sacrifice which we've loved learned in Hebrews very clearly in Hebrews 9 and 10 that's been very clearly spelled out for us. So what do we do now? Well we seek his face in the Word of God, the Bible, by reading it. studying it in prayer, going to him with our concerns and our hearts and giving him thanks uh and rejoicing before him and Trusting him. We gather together with his people. We do not neglect the assembly of ourselves together. We're committed to his church because Christ is committed to his church. It's the body of Christ. It's the flock of God. The living temple of living stones being built up to glorify God. So we're committed to the Word of God, to prayer, to the church, and to church life, and then to the mission that God has given us. To spread the gospel to our neighbors and to the nations. And if we want to love God, we've got to love those things. Okay? We've got to love the things that God tells us to love and to pursue. in honoring him. And of course we do all this not to earn God's favor, but we do it because God's been so good to us. You see, we're not under King Asa anymore. We're under King Jesus now. And King Jesus has fulfilled the law. He's he's fulfilled all the sacrifices in his offering up of himself. And he has been faithful to the Lord to the end, and he has secured for us an everlasting kingdom and an everlasting inheritance that nothing in this world can take away. And so we have all the more reason to be faithful and to love the Lord in the ways that the Lord wants to be loved. Let's pray. Father, thank you for loving us. Thank you for your Son, Jesus, our Savior, who has fulfilled all salvation for us. We thank you for the hope that we have in Jesus that nothing in this world can touch or shake. Help us to love you from the heart sincerely, but also according to your word, by seeking you, by trusting you, by loving you, by loving others, by loving your church, by loving your mission. And the call that you have upon our lives. Help us to be wholeheartedly committed to the things that you ask us to be committed to as those who are called by your name and those who love you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's 2 Chronicles 15. And so day 585 is in the books, and I hope it was a good one for you. And tomorrow, I think we're back in the book of Hebrews for Hebrews 11, one of the great chapters of the Bible. Hope you can be with me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.