Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day number 578 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We're back in 2 Chronicles today. And we've got the the transition, our second major uh kingship transition in Chronicles. The book of 1 Chronicles covered primarily David. And his origin through the genealogies and his life and reign as king. And then the first nine chapters of Second Chronicles have been focused on Solomon. And now we're going to have Rehoboam's folly, as Solomon's son Rehoboam, becomes king. Uh he is foolish, a foolish young man. Um and this is actually the keeping of judgment that was pronounced against Solomon that didn't come in his day because of God's love for David, but instead came in the days of his son. And so we get this interesting uh question before us today, and that is, is Rehoboam at fault for what he chose to do in his free will? Or was this foreordained by God as a judgment sentence for the sins of Rehoboam's father, Solomon? Which one of those things is true. So before we deal with such a complicated question, let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your love for us and for this day that you've given to us. Thank you for this chapter of Scripture that we have before us today. Thank you for what we can learn from your word, how we can draw close to you, how we can grow in wisdom, understanding, knowledge, and faithfulness. Help us to grow in faithfulness, Father. Father, as those who are called by you to glorify you with our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Second Chronicles Chapter 10 Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. And as soon as Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard it, for he was in Egypt where he had fled from King Solomon. Then Jeroboam returned from Egypt, and they sent and called him. And Jeroboam and all Israel came and said to Rehoboam, Your father made our yoke heavy. Now, therefore, lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy yoke on us, and we will serve you. He said to them, Come to me again in three days. So the people went away Then King Rehoboam took counsel with the old men who had stood before Solomon his father while he was yet alive, saying, How do you advise me to answer this people? And they said to him, If you will be good to this people and please them and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants forever. But he abandoned the counsel that the old men gave him, and took counsel with the young men who had grown up with him and stood before him. And he said to them, What do you advise that we answer this people who have said to me, Lighten the yoke that your father has put on us? And the young men who had grown up with him said, Thus shall you speak to the people who said to you, Your father made our yoke heavy, but you lightened it for us, thus shall you say to them, My little finger is thicker than my father's thighs, and now whereas my father laid on you a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions. So Jeroboam and all the people. came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king said, Come to me again the third day. And the king answered them harshly, and forsaking the counsel of the old men, King Rehoboam spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions. So the king did not listen to the people, for it was a turn of affairs brought about by God that the Lord might fulfill his word, which he had spoken by Ahijah the Shilanite, to Jeroboam the son of Nebah. And when all Israel saw that the king did not listen to them, the people answered, What portion have we in David? We have no inheritance in the Son of Jesse, each of you to your own tents, O Israel. Look now to your own house, David. So all Israel went to their tents, but Rehoboam reigned over the people of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah. Then King Rehoboam sent Hatteram, who was taskmaster over the forced labor. And the people of Israel stoned him to death with stones, and King Rehoboam quickly mounted his chariot to flee to Jerusalem. So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day. Second Chronicles ten. Rehaboam's folly. We see the foolishness of a new young king There's an irony here in that if you have read the book of Proverbs, Proverbs was written by Solomon to his son to prepare him to lead well, to govern with wisdom. In other words, Rehoboam was the guy who was supposed to have read and understood and received and lived the wisdom of Proverbs. But instead we see him living folly. We see him living out the role of the fool, according to the book of Proverbs So he's doing the opposite of what he was instructed to do by his father. Now this shouldn't be all that shocking because Solomon himself did the opposite. of what he was instructed to do by the Lord and the wisdom that he knew was right. You see, for sinful human beings it's never enough for us just to be taught what is right. Because just having been taught what is right will not change our hearts so that we desire and we do what is right. Knowing what wisdom is is rarely the problem with human beings. It is actually wanting to walk in wisdom. It is desiring to be humble and others-centered and dependent on God and gracious. We don't want to do those things because we are selfish and foolish in our hearts not lacking information for our heads most of the time. So Rehaboam, he decides that he's gonna be the man and show them who's boss and he loses you know, ten twelfths of his kingdom. Ten tribes, which become the separate nation of Israel, and they go under Jeroboam's rule. And Jeroboam doesn't even learn. We're gonna see later he enters And so the question that is often asked here is: well, what's the real reason? What's the real reason why this happens? And we're actually told that. Like we're actually told very clearly what the real reason is. Verse 15 says, so the king did not listen to the people. For it was a turn of affairs brought about by God that the Lord might fulfill his word, which he spoke by Ahijah the Shilanite to Jeroboam the son of Nebah. So that's verse 15. And the word for and the word that are purpose words. So the king did not listen to the people. Why? For or because it was a turn of affairs brought about by the Lord, by God. Why was it a turn of affairs brought about by God? Well, it was so that, for the purpose of the Lord fulfilling his word, which he spoke by Ahijah the Shilanite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat So we're given very clearly here in verse 15 what the real reason is why this happened. And I say that the real reason I put the error quotes on because it's not accurate or true, but because some people misunderstand that. So some people go in a direction that says, well, if that's the real reason why this happened, then Rehoboam is not responsible for his own actions. How could he have done differently? God sort of forced him to go down this path of folly to bring about the word that he spoke. by the Prophet Ahijah. And so it's not Rehoboam's fault. He couldn't help it. He had to go down this road. And that's not true, because the Bible doesn't say that. The Bible doesn't say that God's purposes, God's decrees, God's will then Schwartz circuits human will and human freedom and human responsibility. Human beings make choices, they're responsible for those choices, and those choices are real. And yet, behind real, noncompelled, non coerced human choices that have real consequences, behind that is the sovereign hand of God ordering all things for his purpose and for his glory. Can we understand how that works? Not entirely, no, because we're human beings and we have very limited intellect and very limited understanding and we don't understand how you could have a world of free agents. Now we're not totally free because we're fallen. We're sinful, we're corrupted, we're selfish. And so there's always a way in which God can act to restrain our evil and selfish desires, or he can give us over to our evil and our selfish desires. The Bible does use that kind of language. It doesn't use that kind of language to say that we're compelled. But sometimes God restrains us and sometimes God lets us go. Sometimes God does circumstantially or providentially or even by changing our hearts. hem us in and keep us from being as bad as we would like to be. Actually happens a lot. Or God gives us over to our sin and says, okay, if that's really what you want to be, if that's really who you are in your heart, go for it. You go do that He always has a purpose in doing that, but his doing that, the fact that God does that, does not in any way negate the fact that we're still making choices. that we're responsible for. Which is why, even though verse fifteen gives us the reason why this happens as a turn of affairs brought about by God that the Lord might fulfill his word, even though that's right there in verse 15 The bulk of the chapter in chapter 10 here is definitely telling us this is what Rehoboam did. And he did it And he's responsible for it. And so you walk away impressed by Rehoboam's folly, but knowing that even Rehoboam's folly is under the sovereign control of God. God's eternal purposes. And that's important because we can't live in a world Where we're not really responsible for our own actions, where we don't really have the freedom to make choices that matter, where everything is hemmed in and compelled. We're not puppets God's not a puppet master. We're not robots pre-programmed to do everything that we do and we don't have any choice about it. That's not accurate, right? And yet Because we have freedom and because we have responsibility and because we make choices that have consequences, that doesn't overthrow God from being sovereign. It doesn't dethrone the sovereign Lord. That would be unthinkable if our free choices could could frustrate the plans of God. How then would he work salvation for his people? How could he keep his promises? How could he uphold his word? So we live in a world where people are responsible for their actions and accountable to God for what they do and why they do it. But God is sovereign and he works out his purposes and his plans and the world is not spinning out of control. And we cannot fully reconcile those two things in our limited pea brains. But that just shows that we're not God. We're far from God. In fact, the gap in intellect between us and Anat is smaller than the gap in intellect between us and God. Like infinitely smaller. I have much more in common with the thinking process of a mosquito. than I do with uh being able to approach what an all-knowing, all-seeing, all-powerful, sovereign God knows, understands, and decides Now I am made in his image, and so I'm able to think true things and understand what he reveals to me, but that doesn't mean that I am God or that my capacity is anywhere close to that of God. Mind. So this calls for what? This calls for humility under a sovereign God. It calls for accountability for our own actions. It calls for repentance of our sin. And it calls for seeking the grace of God for the redemption that we need and that He alone can provide. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, the greater King, the perfect one who never gave in to folly, but was faithful in all that he did. Is faithful in all all that he does will be faithful in all that he will do. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He is consistently perfect and unfailing. We thank you that we have such a King. We pray that you would forgive us for our sins and our follies. We pray that you would redeem us from the corruption of our hearts. We pray that you would Save us for the glory of your name. And we pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for 2 Corinthians 10 tomorrow, 2 Chronicles 10. Tomorrow we'll go on to chapter 11. Have a blessed day in the Lord