Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. This is John Calvin here on my call And we're looking together at 2 Chronicles 3 on this 567th day of our three-year journey through the Word of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your love for us, for your word to us, for your Son, our Savior, who is Lord over us, for your Spirit's presence with us. Father, teach us by your word today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Second Chronicles chapter 3. Then Solomon began to build the house of the Lord in Jerusalem on Mount Moral. Moriah, where the Lord had appeared to David his father, on the place that David had appointed, on the threshing floor of Ornon the Jebuzite. He began to build in the second month of the fourth year of his reign. These are Solomon's measurements for building the house of God. The length in cubits of the old standard was sixty cubits. And the breadth twenty cubits. The vestibule in front of the nave of the house was twenty cubits long, equal to the width of the house. And its height was 120 cubits. He overlaid it on the inside with pure gold. The nave he lined with cyclones. Cypress, and covered it with fine gold, and made palms and chains on it. He adorned the house with settings of precious stone The gold was gold of Parvam. So he lined the house with gold, its beams, its thresholds, its walls, and its doors, and he carved cherubim. on the walls. And he made the most holy place. Its length, corresponding to the breadth of the house, was twenty cubits, and its breadth was twenty cubits Cubits, he overlaid it with six hundred talents of fine gold. The weight of gold for the nails was fifty shekels, and he overlaid the upper chambers. The wings of the cherubim extended together twenty One wing of the one of five cubits touched the wall of the house, and its other wing of five cubits touched the wing of the The other cub and of this cherub one wing of five cubits touched the wall of the house, and the other wing also of five cubits joined to the wing of the Of the first cherub. The wings of these cherubs extended twenty cubits. The cherubim stood on their feet facing the nave. And he made the veil of blue and purple and crimson fabrics and fine linen, and he worked cherubim on it. In front of the house he made two pillars, thirty-five cubits High, with a capital of five cubits on the top of each. He set up the pillars in the front of the temple, one on the south, the other on the north. That on the south he called Jacan, and that on the north Bohat. This is a glorious temple. And of course it should be because our Lord is a glorious God. God, who is holy, and who is beautiful, and who is strong. So this past Sunday, when we were in Psalm 96, We talked about how two of these core attributes of God in his sanctuary are strength and beauty. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Sanctuary. The fact that the the the the holy of holies, the most holy place, which is twenty cubits long, twenty cubits wide, twenty cubits high, it's a cube, right? Twenty cubits is about thirty feet, thirty, thirty-two feet. feet right wide, long, tall. It's a cube and it's covered on the inside with six hundred talents of gold and even the nails are made of pure gold. That would be beautiful, radiantly beautiful. And the cherubim standing, right? Each one of their wings is five cubits, about seven and a half, eight feet, so about eight feet. 16 feet, 32 feet, all the way across, right, and tall, that would denote strength and power. And so you have strength and beauty are in his sanctuary Overall, uh you have a height, uh the vestibule in front of the nave of the house was twenty cubits long, the width of the house, the height was 120 cubits and it's overlaid on the inside with pure gold. The nave lined with cypress, the nave is is kind of the holy place. The nave lined with cypress, covered with fine gold, uh palms and chains. And you have uh settings of precious stones. I mean this is a a beautiful, radiant, glorious temple. Most of the time we see drawings of it and it's kind of in black Black and white, and we kind of get the sort of sketch of the outline of it, and we don't realize how much gold shining, shimmering, and jewels, precious stones, pomegranate Granites and chain. I mean it would have sparkled, it would have glowed a as with a fire because it would reflect the lampstand light that was in there. What did you mean? Absolutely Glorious and the thick curtains made of blue and purple and scarlet uh yarn. It would it would have just been awesome. Awesome place. But you know, it's just a very dim and very poor earthly reflection of the heavenly sanctuary. Which is far more glorious, right? And so as glorious as this earthly sanctuary was built by the hands of men, with you know just an unbelievable place I would love to stand in there and see it but the Lord is telling us that there is a far better place because the fulfillment of this temple, this most holy place, is the New Jerusalem, which is the glorified church. That will come in its fullness of its glory into the new heavens and the new earth when Jesus comes again. And that is a cube that is 10,000 stadia per side. High, long, wide, ten thousand stay. How long is that? About fifteen hundred, sixteen hundred miles? Right? So we're talking massive. And its streets are of transparent gold. And its twelve gates are of each one of a single pearl. Again, this isn't literally physically a picture of the City is a picture of the glorified bride of Jesus Christ, the church, which means that's us. So as glorious as this temple was, and it was glorious. It was a little tiny rinky-dink earthly dim reflection of what Christ is building in this massive, global, multi-generational, numberless multitude of redeemed and glorified saints who will shine like stars forever as displays of his grace and the overwhelming glory of the glorified church is beyond human description. It's beyond human imagination And that's what you and I are being made into. We are being built into that. So yeah, it would be really cool to go stand in Solomon's temple. I mean, that'd be Awesome. But how much better is it to be a living stone in the far more glorious temple of the China? And this is where my heart breaks whenever I hear of Christians who profess faith in Jesus Christ And who profess to be true and sincere Christians, and who do not love the Lord's church. And be like living in Israel in the days of Solomon and say, I have no interest in really going to the temple. and sacrificing or gathering on the feast days. I'm just gonna worship Yahweh in the privacy of my own family. That would be dysfunctional, it would be disobedient and disfunctional We should love Christ and we should love what Christ loves and be committed to what Christ is committed to, which is the building of his church as the living temple. where he dwells by his spirit and that he will glorify forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are at work. To do a wonderful thing throughout the world and throughout the generations. You're gathering together living stones to build a temple that will be far more glorious than anything this world could ever see or imagine or even dream Dream of your glorified church, where you will dwell forever in the new heavens and the new earth. Thank you that we by grace are A part of that. Who are we? Solomon asked, Who am I to build a temple? We asked, Who are we to be a part of this temple? It's your grace, and so it's to your glory. Praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That is 2 Chronicles chapter 3. Thanks so much for joining me today. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.