Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Oak Presbyterian Church. It is day number 572 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. And we are coming back to the book of 2nd Chronicles, back to the temple that Solomon built and the dedication Of that temple and Solomon's prayer at the dedication of that temple that's here in 2 Chronicles chapter 6. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word and for every part of it. It is truth. These are the words of eternal life. These are the words that show us our need for you, show us who you are, show us Christ as the one who meets our need and reconciles us. To you and fulfills all of your promises and purposes. We pray that you would be our teacher and our guide through your word this morning. As we look at 2 Chronicles 6, would you please Prepare us to understand it and to receive it by faith and to love you more for it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Oh well, Second Chronicles chapter six. Solomon's prayer. So this is also recorded in Kings, but here we have a slightly different version of the prayer. Part of it is very close, and then part of it uh the chronicler emphasizes different things that Solomon prayed than what we read in 1 Kings chapter 8. Let's read this together. Then Solomon said, The Lord has said that he will dwell in thick darkness, but I have built you an exalted house, a place for you to dwell in forever. Then the king turned around and blessed all the the assembly of Israel while the assembly of Israel stood. And he said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, who with his hand has fulfilled what he promised. with his mouth to David my father, saying, Since the day that I brought out my people from the land of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel in which to build a house. That my name might be there, and I chose no man as prince over my people Israel, but I have chosen Jerusalem, that my name may be there. And I have chosen David to be over my people Israel. Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of the Lord, the God of Israel. But the Lord said to David, my father, Whereas it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well that it was in your heart. Nevertheless, it is not you who shall build the house, but your son, who shall be born to you, shall build the house for my name Now the Lord has fulfilled his promise that he made. For I have risen in the place of David my father and sit on the throne of Israel as the Lord promised, and I have built the house for the name of the Lord, the God of Israel, and there I have set the ark, in which is the covenant of the Lord that He made with the people of Israel Then Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread out his hands. Solomon had made a bronze platform five cubits long, five cubits wide. and three cubits high, and had set it in the court, and he stood on it. Then he knelt on his knees in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread out his hands toward heaven and said, O Lord, God of Israel. There is no God like you in heaven or on earth, keeping covenant and showing steadfast love to your servants who walk before you with all their heart. who have kept with your servant David my father what you declared to him. You spoke with your mouth, and with your hand have fulfilled it this day. Now therefore for, O Lord God of Israel. Keep for your servant David, my father, what you have promised him, saying, You shall not lack a man to sit before me on the throne of Israel If only your sons pay close attention to their way, to walk in my law as you have walked before me. Now therefore, O Lord God of Israel, let your word be confirmed, which you have spoken to your servant David. But will God indeed dwell with man on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you. How much less this house that I have built Yet have regard to the prayer of your servant and to his plea, O Lord my God, listening to the cry and to the prayer that your servant prays before you, that your eyes may be open day and night toward this house, the place where you have promised to set your name, that you may listen to the prayer that your servant offers toward this place. And listen to the pleas of your servant, and of your people Israel, when they pray toward this place. And listen from heaven your dwelling place, and when you hear, forgive. If a man sins against his neighbor, and is made to take an oath, and comes and swears his oath before your altar in this house, then hear from heaven and act and judge your servants. Repaying the guilty by bringing his conduct on his own head, and vindicating the righteous by rewarding him according to his righteousness If your people Israel are defeated before the enemy, because they have sinned against you, and they turn again and acknowledge your name and pray and plead with you in this house, then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of your people. people Israel, and bring them again to the land that you have given them and their fathers, when heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against you If they pray toward this place and acknowledge your name and turn from their sin when you afflict them, then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of your servants, your people Israel. when you teach them the good way in which they should walk, and grant rain upon your land, which you have given to your people as an inheritance. If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence or blight or mildew or locust or caterpillar, if their enemies besiege them in the land own sorrow and stretching out his hands toward this house, then hear from heaven your dwelling place and forgive. and render to each whose heart you know, according to all his ways for you. You only know the hearts of the children of mankind. that they may fear you and walk in your ways all the days that they live in the land that you gave to our fathers. Likewise, when a foreigner who is not of your people Israel comes from a far country for the sake of your great name and your mighty hand and your outstretched arm. When he comes And praise toward this house, hear from heaven your dwelling place, and do according to all which the foreigner calls to you. In order that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and fear you, as do your people Israel, and that they may know that this house that I have built is called by your name. If your people go out to battle against their enemies by whatever way you shall send them, and they pray to you toward this city that you have chosen, and the house that I have built for your name, then hear from heaven Hear their prayer and their plea and maintain their cause. If they sin against you, for there is no one who does not sin. And you are angry with them, and give them to an enemy, so that they are carried away captive to a land far or near. Yet if they turn their heart in the land, to which you have ki they have been carried captive, and repent and plead with you in the land of their captivity, saying, We have sinned and have acted perversely and wickedly If they repent with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, to which they were carried captive, and pray toward their land. which you gave to their fathers, the city that you have chosen, and the house that I have built for your name, then hear from heaven, your dwelling place, their prayer and their pleas, and maintain their cause and Forgive your people who have sinned against you. Now, O my God, let your eyes be open and your ears attentive to the prayer of this place. And now arise, O Lord God, and go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might Let your priests, O Lord God, be clothed with salvation, and let your saints rejoice in your goodness. O Lord God, do not turn away from the face of your anointed one. Remember your steadfast love. for David your servant. That is 2 Chronicles chapter 6. A very powerful prayer from Solomon. And it's It's rooted in this understanding that the people of Israel are the people of God by covenant. It's a covenant that God made with Abram, Abraham, when he first called him and he blessed him. With Isaac and Jacob and Jacob's twelve sons, the heads of the twelve tribes of Israel. It's a covenant that he renewed and he strengthened. When he made a covenant with the people through Moses, giving them his good laws and commandments in the moral and ceremonial and civil aspects of that law that of God that was given through Moses. It was a covenant that he confirmed again and strengthened and clarified when he made The covenant with David, saying that a descendant of David would always sit on the throne over the people of God, and that his kingdom would have no end. And the manifestation of this covenant relationship now is here on Mount Moriah in Jerusalem. It hearkens back to the covenant with Abraham because this is the mountain where Abraham Abraham was willing to offer up his son Isaac, and where God confirmed his covenant and said, Through your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed in Genesis 25. It's also the place where David made intercession for the people and stopped the plague that was sent after his sinful senses. And it's the place where in the temple and next door to the royal palace, you have this center of God's covenantal relationship with the temple In the temple, you have the living out of the covenantal worship that was given through Moses in the sacrificial system and the and the priestly intercession. on behalf of the people. And then you have the Davidic dynasty in the royal palace next door. And so you have you have here in Jerusalem and here in the temple and the temple complex And the palace next door, this manifestation of God's covenant relationship with his people. And that's why Solomon's prayer is so filled with If they if they look toward this city, if they look toward this house, hear their prayer. Because in so doing, it's not so much about the physical spot as it is about remembering That we are the covenant people of God, and that we look to God and the manifestation of his covenant on earth Now this is the strong focus of the chroniclers recording of Solomon's prayer is on this Davidic covenant And it is on this centrality of hearing the people when they pray toward the house of God. Now some of this language, given the original audience, would have been quite powerful to those who first read this from the chronicler, and that is in Uh verse uh where is it? I should have marked this down. Here we go. In verse thirty-six, if they sin against you, for there is no one who does not sin, and you are angry with them, and give them to an enemy, so that they are carried away captive to a land full Far or near, yet if they turn their heart in the land to which they have been carried captive and repent and plead with you in the land of their captivity, saying, We have sinned and have acted perversely and wickedly, if they repent with all their heart and with all their soul, in the land of their captivity, to which they were carried captive, and pray toward the land which you gave to their fathers, the city which you have chosen and the house that I have built for your name, then hear from heaven your dwelling place, their prayer and their pleas, and maintain their cause, and forgive your people who have sinned. against you. That particular part of the prayer would have had special poignancy to this generation that's returning from that exile. Daniel's a great example of us. You know the famous story of Daniel in the lion's den. Remember that King Darius commanded that no one should make prayer to anyone other than him. And Daniel went home to his house, and he opened the windows of his house toward Jerusalem, and he prayed toward Jerusalem, as had been his custom. And so Daniel's a great example of us of one who's sent into exile and he prays. And in fact, in Daniel, you can read of prayers that Daniel prayed to the Lord on behalf of And so the chronicler is saying to this original audience, if you are here and you realize that the reason why you were sent into exile Is not because Egypt betrayed you. You didn't have a strong enough international coalition. Nebuchadnezzar was Just a mean guy, etc. , etc. The real reason is not any of these secondary causes. It was your sin against the Lord. And if you turn to the Lord and confess your And that this was seen even in the prayer of Solomon from five hundred years prior. And in fact, this idea is even in the book of Deuteronomy. So this is the idea that the people of God might sin and might get sent into captivity. And then they would need to seek the Lord and repent and and then be restored. This is something that God made clear. This is why Solomon prayed it, I think, in his dedicatory prayer, is because he knew it was revealed to Moses that this was a real possibility. Of what could happen if the people of God were to sin, and he knew the people of God were prone to sin, right? There is no one who does not sin. Verse 36. What does all this mean for us today as a new Testament Christians. Well, again, the temple of the living God is the church, and each individual believer is a stone in the That temple. And our covenant with God has its fulfillment and its sum and substance in the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the King. The priest, the prophet, the sacrifice, the fulfillment of the law, our intercessor, our mediator, our righteous judge, king And priest, I mean, he's everything. So he is the sum and substance. And so we pray to God in Jesus' name, meaning looking toward Jesus to be our righteousness, to be the forgiveness of our sins, and to be the one through whom we can have access to God's throne as a throne of grace. They would pray toward the temple because that was the earthly manifestation of that covenant relationship. We pray in Jesus' name because Jesus is The bodily manifestation, the fulfillment of God's covenant purposes, and the the embodiment of our covenant relationship with God is actually in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, where where some Son of God, Son of Man, Divine and Human are brought together in one person, and he is it, right? He's he's the he's the He's the whole summoned substance. So that's why we pray in Jesus' name. They're not just magic words that we add at the end of a prayer to try to, you know, twist God. And make sure we get our way, it is through Jesus Christ that we come to God. It is through Jesus Christ that we have standing before God. Now, if we do have standing before God, As his people, we are to be his holy and righteous people. And so throughout this prayer, there's this idea that God's holy people should be holy and righteous in their conduct. And when we sin, we should confess our sin. And our concern should be to be faithful to God in holiness and in righteousness. Holiness means to be And then righteousness means to do what God requires and not do what God forbids in the keeping of of the moral law, not that we're doing it to Earn salvation, but we're doing it because we love God and because He has saved us and made us His own. Which has to do with the transfer of the ark into the temple. And uh just as the temple itself is the earthly meeting place of God with his people. The ark is the very center of that, and is the very center of God's meeting place. And again, the last verse here, O Lord God, do not turn away the face of your anointed one. What is anointed one in Hebrew? Messiah. Right? Remember your steadfast love, your covenantal love, your chesed for David your servant. And we have the Messiah, who is the greater David. And it is his face being ever before the throne of God that is our eternal hope and is the anchor of the steadfast love of God for That we heard about in Hebrews chapter six when we were in that chapter. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus, who fulfills all of your promises and purposes, and who is the sum and substance of the fact that you have to be able to get the first time. your covenant with us. He is the embodiment of the covenant of grace. He is our righteousness and our peace. He is our access before you as our Father. He is the forgiveness of our sins. He is our reconciliation with our with you. He is our holiness and he is our righteousness. Help us to walk in Jesus, to live in Jesus, by the power of your Holy Spirit, to live as befits The followers of Christ, by your grace and for your glory, help us to see this and to do this, to live this way. We pray in Jesus' name Amen. That is 2 Chronicles chapter 6. Tomorrow we're going to go right on to 2 Chronicles chapter 7. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.