Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Memel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 584 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we come to 2 Chronicles chapter 14, and a new king in Judah, King Asa. Abijah slept with his fathers and Asa takes his place. And we're seeing here that Judah is being blessed with better kings. than Israel. And this is generally the story. After the kingdoms split, the northern kingdom of Israel had no good kings. They had all bad kings. Some were really bad, but they were all bad. Judah was blessed with some good kings, uh many who were kind of mixed, and also some bad kings. And that's part of the human explanation for why Judah as a kingdom survives for 125 years longer than the northern kingdom of Israel. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into this chapter 2 Father in heaven, thank you so much for first second chronicles fourteen that we have before us today. Thank you for your faithfulness to teach us from your word day by day as we go through it together. We pray that your Holy Spirit would be our teacher. That this chapter would be clear to our understanding, but that also our hearts would be tender to receive your word as your word for us, that we would treasure it and respond to it in faith and obedience. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. King Asa. Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David, and Asa his son reigned in his place. In his days the land had rest for ten years, and Aetha did what was good and right in the eyes of the Lord his God He took away the foreign altars and the high places, and broke down the pillars, and cut down the asherim. He commanded Judah to seek the Lord, the God of their fathers. and to keep the law and the commandment. He also took out of all the cities of Judah the high places and the incense altars, and the kingdom had rest under him. He built fortified cities in Judah, for the land had rest. There was he was sorry, he had no war in those years, for the Lord gave him peace. And he said to Judah, Let us build these cities and surround them with walls and towers and gates and bars. The land is still ours, because we have sought the Lord our God. We have sought him And he has given us peace on every side. So they built and prospered. And Asa had an army of three hundred thousand from Judah, armed with large shields and shields. and spears, and two hundred and eighty thousand men from Benjamin that carried shields and drew bows. All these were mighty men of valor. Zira, the Ethiopian, came out against them with an army of a million men, and three hundred chariots. They came as far as Mareshah And Asa went out to meet him, and they drew up the lines of battle in the valley of Zephitha at Marisha. And Asa cried to the Lord his God, O Lord, there is none like you to help between the mighty and the weak Help us, O Lord our God, for we rely on you, and in your name we have come against this multitude. O Lord, you are our God. Let not man prevail against you you? So the Lord defeated the Ethiopians before Asa and before Judah, and the Ethiopians fled. Asa and his people who were with him pursued them as far as Gerar. And the Ethiopians fell until none remained alive, for they were broken before the Lord and his army The men of Judah carried away very much spoil, and they attacked all the cities around Gerar, for the fear of the Lord was upon them. They plundered all the cities, for there was much plunder in them, and they struck down the tents of those who had livestock, and carried away sheep in abundance and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem That's 2 Chronicles 14 in the ESV. This is a rare kind of chapter that we do see sometimes in Kings and Chronicles. We see a king who is good and who is doing what is right. And we see him seeking the Lord, and we see the Lord working a mighty deliverance. It's really kind of a straightforward chapter. Asa was much better than Abijah because when Abijah died, now Abijah had sought the Lord and had been sort of inconsistently, some faithful, some faithless. But at the end of the day, when Abijah died, What was left in the land? What did he leave behind? Foreign altars, high places, pillars, asherem. These are marks of pagan idolatry, and they're throughout the land. And Asa says, we are going to seek the Lord our God. The God of our fathers, not the gods of these pagans who lived here before us and whom the Lord kicked out of the land. We're going to seek the Lord, the one true God. And so he put away all of these things. And the kingdom had rest under him. For ten years the Lord gave them rest. And Asa was not only faithful to God, but he was also wise with the blessings that God gave him. faithful to God and wise with the blessings that God gave him. He said, let's fortify, let's build, let's get ready. Because there's no presumption here. You see, sometimes when God blesses us, we can presume upon His grace and just presume that if we're blessed today, we will always be blessed. If we're at peace today, we will always be at peace. But a wise man will use the rest that he's been given by God to seek the Lord to seek to strengthen his position and be ready for days of trouble that may come. If you find yourself in a place of relative rest or relative ease, don't get complacent. Don't use that to become self-indulgent and lazy and put down your guard and stop being vigilant Stand firm on the Lord and exercise due vigilance, watch, and pray that you may not enter into Temptation. That's what the Lord told the disciples on the night he was betrayed. Watch and pray. So here we have Asa. Seeking the Lord, and building up his cities with walls and towers and gates and bars, and building up his army with large shields and spears and bows. And they would need them. They would need that army. So in times of peace, in times of growth. Read your Bible. Pray. Study deeply. Worship in spirit and in truth. Grow. Grow so that you'll be strong for the battle And that's what we see in Asa, an example of a king who led the people of God in doing that. And the results of it were that, you know, Zerah the Ethiopian came out. with a million men and three hundred chariots, and Judah was not completely helpless, although they were outnumbered. And they knew that all of their human preparations were good and wise, but at the end of the day, they weren't enough. So here's another lesson we can learn. In times of relative peace and stability in our lives, we should be diligent to seek the Lord. and to increase in grace and in knowledge of the Lord, but we should never go into a spiritual battle trusting in our own knowledge, trusting in our own abilities, trusting in our own resources. And so Aetha sees the Ethiopians coming, and they've marched up to a very key valley, and he said Help. He says, Help. O Lord, there's none like you to help between the mighty and the weak. Help us, O Lord our God, for we rely on you. And in your name we've come against this multitude, O Lord. You are our God. Let not man prevail against you. And you see that in verse 13, when the Ethiopians are routed, the chronicler says they were broken before the Lord and his army. So King Asa knows that even though he's made due diligent preparation, even though he's fortified the cities, even though he's raised the army and fitted them out with shields and spears and swords and bows They're not his army. These mighty men of valor are not his men. They are the Lord's men. And if they if the Ethiopians prevail, they would be prevailing against God's army and God's people. And so he seeks the Lord and he says, help. We need to remember everything we have, everything we've been given. Everything we've had the opportunity to improve in our lives is the Lord's. It's not ours. And we need to seek the help of the Lord in battle. So we just see a lot of good lessons here from Asa in 2 Chronicles 14. Some very practical spiritual lessons that we can take away from this positive chapter. If you're in a time of relative peace and stability in your life, make the most of it. Don't binge watch on Netflix till 2 o'clock in the morning and just be lazy and self-indulgent. Seek the Lord and grow in his grace. When you have fortified yourself for battle, and battle comes, though, don't trust in your own preparations. Trust in the Lord. And third, remember that you and all that you have belong to the Lord, and you're asking the Lord to protect his own. Now Asa could see these things in his day. How much more should we be able to see them through our greater King the Lord Jesus Christ, who has a larger kingdom and has made glorious preparation for us and has provided for us through his death and resurrection and ongoing intercession and the gift of the Holy Spirit. So if Asa could lead his people into this victory, we should trust King Jesus to lead us even more faithfully and even more successfully today. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the positive lessons that we can learn from the example of King Asa. Was it a perfect man? No one is. We have a greater King. We have the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us to be diligent, help us to be faithful, but help us not to trust in even our diligence, but ultimately to cry out to you. and trust in you and save us and protect us and guard us in the battle, for we need you, for we are yours. And so we pray to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's 2 Chronicles 14. Thanks for joining me tomorrow. We'll go on to chapter 15. Have a blessed day in the Lord.