Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bammel from Forestale Presbyterian Church. It's day 566. And we are in 2 Chronicles chapter 2, as Solomon now takes over the inherited task from his father and begins the process of constructing the temple. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. Every part of it is a gift from you, full of truth, and showing us you, your character, your will, and ultimately pointing us us of Christ. Help us to see you better through this passage today. Write 2 Chronicles 2 on our hearts in such a way that we see Jesus more clearly and we love you and your church more dearly. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Now Solomon purposed to build a temple for the name of the Lord and a royal palace for himself And Solomon assigned 70,000 men to bear burdens, and 80,000 to quarry in the hill country, and 3600 And Solomon sent word to Hiram, the king of Tyre, Have you dealt with David my father, and sent him cedar to build himself a house to dwell in So deal with me. Behold, I am about to build a house for the name of the Lord my God, and dedicate it to him for the burning of incense of sweet spices before him. And for the regular arrangement of the showbread, and for burnt offerings morning and evening on the Sabbaths and the new moons, and the appointed feasts of the Lord our God, as ordained forever for Israel. The house that I am to build will be great, for our God is greater than all gods. But who is able to build him out house, since heaven even even highest heaven cannot contain him. Who am I to build a house for him, except as a place to make offerings before him? So now, send me a man skilled to work in gold, silver, bronze, and iron, and in purple, crimson, and blue fabrics trained also in engraving, to be with the skilled workers who are with me in Jerusal in Judah and Jerusalem, whom David my father provided Send me also cedar, cypress, and algum timber from Lebanon, for I know that your servants know how to cut timber in Lebanon If you have a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little I will give for your servants, the woodsmen who cut timber 20,000 cores of crushed wheat, 20,000 cores of barley, 20,000 baths of wine, and 20,000 baths of oil Then Hiram, the king of Tyre, answered in a letter that he sent to Solomon, Because the Lord loves his people. He has made you king over them. Hiram also said, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, who made heaven and earth, who has given King David a wise son, who has discretion and understanding. who will build a temple for the Lord and a royal palace for himself. Now I have sent a skilled man who has understanding, Huram Abhi, the son of a woman of the daughters of Dan And his father was a man of tire. He is trained to work in gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone, wood, and in purple, blue, and crimson fabrics and fine linen, and to do all sorts of engraving and execute any design that may be assigned him with your craftsman, the craftsman of my Lord David your father. Now, therefore, the wheat and barley, oil, and wine, of which my Lord has spoken, let him send it to him. And we will cut whatever timber you need from Lebanon, and bring it to you in rafts by sea to Joppa, so that you may take it up to Jerusalem. Then Solomon counted all the resident aliens who were in the land of Israel after the census of them that David his fi his father had taken, and there were found one hundred and fifty-three thousand Well that is 2 Chronicles chapter 2. And it's interesting in this phase here, Solomon is doing the groundwork. He's laying the groundwork for the preparation. David, of course, his father had already set aside lots of money, but now Solomon has to take that money and kind of put it into action. He's going to need people to do the labor, and he gets, you know, a hundred and fifty thousand of them. And then he takes these hundred and fifty thousand from the aliens, the strangers who are living within the land. And so the breakdown of that is found at the end. There's a hundred and fifty-three thousand six hundred. So there's 150,000 laborers, 70,000 to bear burdens, 80,000 for rock quarrying, and then 3,600 who would be over them as overseers. So 150,000 workers and 3,600 supervisors. That's a lot of people. And again, these workers are going to not only build the temple of the Lord, uh, but they're also going to build the royal palace. And as we'll see as we go on, the royal palace is actually going to take twelve twice as long to build as the temple of the Lord. So he needs laborers. He needs material though. And the best material is going to come from um From Lebanon. The cedar, the cypress, the algum timber, that's going to come from Lebanon. They can get quarried stone in Israel, but there's not trees like this. There's not cedar trees, there's not um cypress trees, there's not these great big strong trees. They have like sycamore trees and olive trees, but you can't build like big strong palaces and temples out of that kind of thing So they need the material, right? And then they need the skill for doing the craftsmanship. And so for the workers to cut the timber And for the skill to do the craftsman for the workmanship, David is going to send an enormous quantity of wheat and barley and wine. wine and oil, uh twenty thousand cores of each, uh, which is just a huge uh quantity of each one of of these. And this is all to to be to pay for this undertaking that David had in his heart. But what I think is is interesting is the exchange back and forth between Solomon and Hiram the King of Tyre, what Solomon says about the Lord and what Hiram the King of Tyre says about the Lord. Lord. This shows the hand of the Lord at work in all that is happening. So look first of all with me in verses five and six The house that I am to build will be great, for our God is greater than all gods. But who is able to build him a house since heaven, even highest Heaven cannot contain him, who am I to build a house for him except as a place to make offerings before him? Solomon understands the Lord Yahweh is not going to actually live in this temple. It's just going to be a place where he can meet with his people, where his people can inquire of him and can bring him offerings and where they can receive him blessing and so it's a place for meeting it's not really a a dwelling place for Yahweh on earth because even heaven in the highest Now what's interesting is Hiram, King of Tyre, could have very easily been offended by Solomon's statement that our God is greater than all gods. But instead, Hiram responds back and seems to agree. He says, because Yahweh, when you ever see all caps lord like that, Because Yahweh loves his people, he's made you king over them, and blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, who made heaven and earth. That's an understanding that Yahweh is the creator God of heaven and earth. He is the He is the most high God. He is the one who is above all other gods. So that is a profound statement to come from a seemingly pagan king. Now he sends this skilled man, Huram Abi, and this man is skilled, but it's also a wise little bit of diplomacy here, because the mother of Huram Abi is of Israeli descent. She's one of the daughters of Dan from the tribe of Dan. And his father is a man of Tyre. So even in the man who's doing this work, you have this union of Israel and uh tire working together even in represented by this this man himself. And so all is being done. What is this what is this telling us? Well It's telling us that the work of the kingdom of God is costly. There is an investment that is required of time, of talent. Of money, of skill, of labor. The kingdom of God is not built. The church is not built. cheaply or quickly or easily. And so this is a picture for us of what we are called to, but even higher and more importantly than that, it's the Lord Jesus Christ Who paid the price in his own precious blood to build his church to the glory of God? There was no price too high for Jesus to pay. And the blood of Jesus, the blood of the Son of God, the precious life of the sinless Son of God, the Lamb of God God who takes away the sin of the world and his resurrection life. So his death on the cross in our place, and his resurrection life is of infinite value. It's worth more than all of the trees and all of the oil and all of the wine and all of the grain. It's of infinite worth. And he is in himself the purchase price for the temple of the living God that is the church. So since he has already made such a sacrifice, when we are called to serve, to volunteer our time, to give our tithe, to To lend our skill and our expertise to the work of God within the church, we should do so willingly and joyfully, knowing that our contribution is very small, but used by God for his purposes. And Christ has already made the greatest contribution of all. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your church that you are building on Christ, the solid Rock. May we be willing and eager to give whatever we can, however we can, to follow in the footsteps of Christ. To take up our cross and follow him and to love your church so much that we would invest sacrificially and uh in in in in a committed in a covenantally committed way to the good upbuilding of your church in this world and for all eternity. We pray this In Jesus' name. Amen. That is 2 Chronicles 2. Tomorrow we'll go right on to 2 Chronicles 3. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I hope you do have a blessed day. In the Lord.