Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter three. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bell from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day five hundred and seventy-nine of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We're more than a year and a half through. And uh we're right in the middle of 2 Chronicles. And Rehoboam has now taken the throne as king over Judah in Jerusalem. Uh he is ruling over the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, with many of the Levites uh sprinkled among that. So he's got kind of two and a half tribes, Judah, Benjamin, and and part of Levi. And this is this is going to be the the central focus of the kingdom of God as the northern ten tribes are going to go far astray pretty quickly. This is where the house of David is. This is where the Lion of the Messiah is. And yet Rehoboam's a fool and a sinner. And so we're going to learn a lot about patterns of kingship within God's kingdom today. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, your goodness to us is wonderful, undeserved, and we're so thankful for it. We pray that you would bless us today. As we look to your word in 2 Chronicles 11, be our teacher. Write these truths on our hearts. Help us to see Jesus more clearly for all that you have done in him for us. And help us to see our own sin and our own need, and help us to be faithful by your grace to your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Okay, 2 Chronicles chapter 11. When Rehoboam came to Jerusalem, he assembled the house of Judah and Benjamin. 180,000 chosen warriors to fight against Israel to restore the kingdom to Rehabon. But the word of the Lord came to Shemeah, the man of God Say to Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin, Thus says the Lord, you shall not go up. Or fight against your relatives, return every man to his home, for this thing is from me. So they listened to the word of the Lord, and returned, and did not go against Jeroboam. Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem and he built cities for defense in Judah He built Bethlehem, Etum, Tokoa, Bethzer, Soko, Agulum, Gath, Marishah, Zith. Adaraim, Lakish, Azekah, Zorah, Igelon, and Hebron, fortified cities that are in Judah and in Benjamin He made the fortresses strong, and put commanders in them, and stores of food, oil, and wine, and he put shields and spears in all the cities, and made them very strong. So he held Judah and Bethel. Benjamin. And the priests and the Levites, who were in all Israel, presented themselves to him from all the places where they lived For the Levites left their common lands and their holdings, and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, because Jeroboam and his sons cast them out from serving as priests of the Lord. And he appointed his own priests for the high places, and for the goat idols, and for the calves that he had made. And those who had set their hearts to seek the Lord God of Israel came after them. from all the tribes of Israel to Jerusalem, to sacrifice to the Lord the God of their fathers. They strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and for three years they made Rehaboam, the son of Solomon, secure, for they walked for three years. in the way of David and Solomon. Rehoboam took as wife Mahalath, the daughter of Jeremoth, the son of David, and Abbail, the daughter of Eliab, the son of Jesse, and she bore him sons. Jeush, Shemariah, and Zahem. After her he took Maiacah, the daughter of Absalom, who bore him Abijah, Atai, Zizah. And Shilamath, above all his wives and concubines, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, and the five years, Sixty concubines, and fathered twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters. And Rehoboam appointed Abijah, the son of Maica, as chief prince among his brothers. for he intended to make him king. And he dealt wisely, and distributed some of his sons throughout all the districts of Judah and Benjamin, in all the fortified cities, and he gave them abundant provisions. and procured wives for them. That is 2 Chronicles chapter 11. So after Rehabaam's folly, what we're really seeing here in 2 Chronicles 11 is Rehoboam's wisdom. So Rehboam was foolish. He rejected the Council of Proverbs that was written to him, as we looked at yesterday. But now he begins to humble himself. He sees that he's lost. Most of his kingdom. His first response is, We're gonna fight and we're gonna get this thing back together. Judah was still the strongest of the tribes, even from the very beginning. Remember way back in Joshua Judah was the most powerful of the tribes. They conquered the most territory. They were the most bold. They were the most fierce in battle. So Judah was a very strong, very capable uh warrior tribe. And Benjamin, well that had been the tribe of Saul, even though they had been greatly decimated at the end of the book of Judges, they had been built back up, and they were the tribe of the first kingdom. And they had also great warriors. And so there were 180,000 chosen warriors. This is a good army. This is a very tough and fierce army. And there would have been a long and very bloody civil war had Rehoboam marched off to battle. But God said to him, stop. Go home. Don't do this. This is from the Lord. And so Rehoboam and the people of God obeyed the Lord. That is really wisdom. You see, there can be all sorts of cunning and planning and ingenuity, but real wisdom begins when God speaks his word, and it's a word that we maybe don't even want to hear. Because it humbles us, it puts us in our place, it you know, deflates our ego quite a bit. And we don't want to necessarily hear this word, but we hear it. We receive it, we obey it. That's the beginning. of true wisdom. And this is where Rehoboam turns from his folly and begins to walk in wisdom because he humbles himself. Now in humility, he realizes we're a much smaller kingdom than my father had. We're much more vulnerable to outside attack, and so we need to build up cities for defense. There is a practical level to wisdom as well. And so these fortified cities, they they protect as a defense against Egypt, against perhaps a re-uh-emergence of Philistine power, against Edomites. And so he he really fortifies these borders and he puts shields and spears in all the cities and he makes them very strong. And then the next wise thing he does is he welcomes Levites who want to come and settle in Judah. Now it's a little bit unclear in this text if exactly all of the Levites And priests come and stay. It seems that there were a large number of Levites and priests those who had set their hearts to seek the Lord God of Israel, verse 16, they come. It's a large number. And they come and they strengthen and they walk in obedience. to God because one is they were removed from their privileged position that God had given them and they were replaced by whoever wants to be a priest But the other reality is that to be a priest in northern Israel means serving goat idols and golden calves, and that's just not something that these Levites want to do. But it does seem that some Levites stayed behind and they remained in a place where they were you know serving these false gods. However, there's a sad note here. In that while Rehoboam and Judah committed themselves to faithful worship in obedience to God's law, it seems to have only lasted for three years. Now this may have some prophetic significance in that Jesus in his earthly ministry was a three-year-long earthly ministry. It may have this little bit of a hint that foreshadows Christ, maybe, maybe stretch. But what we do know is that their obedience was incomplete. Not all of the Levites came. But only those who sought the Lord. And even those who came to strengthen Judah, they weren't they did not remain faithful for the long haul. And it wasn't great for the rest of Rihabohm's reign. Then we find out about Rihabohm's family and um His wives, his sons. Uh he has eighteen wives, sixty concubines, twenty-eight sons, sixty daughters. That's that's a lot. It's not as many as his father or grandfather had, but it's still a lot. He's got a large family. He's got some real power and real strength. And so on a human perspective, he seems to be establishing himself as a wise and powerful king. Now, if you can look at the bottom of the screen, you can see the title of the next chapter that we'll be in. in a couple of days, and things are not going to go well for Rehoboam in the long haul because God is going to humble him. uh and and judge him. But we'll get to there in a couple of days. For now what we can see is that although Rehoboam's reign began with absolute folly There is a measure of correction here and a measure of redemption here by the grace of God, in that he does humble himself to listen to the Word of God. He does welcome the worship of God. And he does exercise wisdom in guarding the people of God. And those are good things, even though they're not going to last. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that we do have a greater king than Rehabal, such a greater king. Because while there was some great faithfulness here, things we can learn from, we need to listen to your word. We need to humble ourselves before you. We need to seek your proper worship and we need to seek also to live according to the practical wisdom that you lay down for us in your word. We need these things, but ultimately we need Jesus for more More. We need a savior and a redeemer and a captain and a head and a guardian much more than these things. And we pray that you would work in us by your Holy Spirit, through faith in Jesus Christ the perfect King, that you would work in us through repentance, true humility, a true desire for obedience. And more importantly, most importantly, a true and deep dependence upon the Lord Jesus Christ, our King, your Son, our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. That is 2 Chronicles chapter 11. Thanks so much for joining me tomorrow. I think we're back in the book of Hebrews and uh looking forward to that. Hebrews chapter ten, I think, is on tap for tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.