Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 588, and that brings us to 2 Chronicles 17 and Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat's another one of those Bible names that's uh generally a pretty positive character in the scriptures and yet his name hasn't caught on as a common name to call people. When you're thinking about biblical names, I might want to name my son. You think of David and you think of Peter and you think of Paul and John and Andrew and you don't think Jehoshaphat. I want to name my son Jehoshaphat. Just doesn't roll off the tongue, does it? Put it in the list with Zerubabel and Obadiah and other good people in the Bible whose names just weren't catchy enough to carry on. Throughout history. Anyway, that's enough of that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your word and for this time we can spend in your word together this morning. Guide us by your spirit. Help us to see you and help us to follow you. Faithfully. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Second Chronicles 17. Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place and strengthened himself against Israel. He placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim that Asa his father had captured The Lord was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the earlier ways of his father David. He did not seek the bales. but sought the God of his father and walked in his commandments, and not according to the practices of Israel. Therefore the Lord established the kingdom in his hand And furthermore he took the high places and the asherim out of Judah. In the third year of his reign he sent his officials, Ben Hael, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nathanael, and Makaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah, and with them the Levites, Shemea, uh Nathaniah, Zebediah, Asahel, uh Shemiramoth, Jehonathon, Adonijah, Tobaijah, and and Tabodonijah, a bunch of other Bible names that never called on. And with these Levites, the priests, Elishima and Jehoram. And they taught in Judah, having the book of the law of the Lord with them. They went about through all the cities of Judah and taught among the people. And the fear of the Lord fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were around Judah. and they made no war with Jehoshaphat. Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents and silver for tribute, and the Arabians also brought him seventy-seven hundred rams and seventy-seven hundred goats. And Jehoshaphat grew steadily greater. He built in Judah fortresses and store cities. He had large supplies. In the cities of Judah. He had soldiers, mighty men of valor in Jerusalem. This was the muster of them by fathers' houses of Judah, the commanders of thousands. Abnah, the commander, with 300,000 mighty men of valor, and next to him Jehohanan the commander, with two hundred and eighty thousand, and next to him Amesiah, the son of Zikri, a volunteer for the service of the Lord with two hundred thousand men of valor, of Benjamin Elaida, a mighty man of valor with two hundred thousand men armed with bow and shield and next to him Jehoshabad with one hundred and eighty thousand armed for war. These were in the service of the king, besides those whom the king placed in the fortified cities throughout all Judah So again, kind of like we saw in Asa's earlier years, or for the 35 years of good reign from Asa, we get some good things here from Jehoshaphat. He is seeking the Lord. David is held up throughout Kings and Chronicles as The model, man after God's own heart, one who sought the Lord, one who walked faithfully in the ways of the Lord. And of course, that doesn't mean David was perfect. We all know about the So the Bible's not ever like expecting perfection from anyone other than Jesus, but faith and faithfulness is is by God's grace uh can be a reality in the lives of God's people. Despite great sin and our weaknesses that unfortunately plague us. But here we have Uh Jehoshaphat walking in the ways of David, not seeking the Baal, seeking the God of his father, walking in his commandments. And he does he does some remarkable things, things even better than Asa at his best. What are these things? Well, he takes out the high places. Now we don't know if these are just the pagan worshiping high places or if these are also the Yahweh worshiping high places. As far as we know, only Hezekiah and Josiah removed the Yahweh worshiping high places. But this certainly would have been the pagan worshiping high places at at at a minimum. So the places where the bails he's talking about how he didn't seek the bales. And so the Baal worshipping places and the Asherim. And by the way, they've uncovered Some of these pagan high places in Israel and one in particular that was a very important pagan uh worship site, a high place And what they found were the buried bodies of children who had been sacrificed on these high places. to these false gods. And they were buried in these jars underground, uh, in a ritual burial after the ritual sacrifice. So these were Really awful, ugly, horrible places. When when pagan gods, when demons demand worship, because that's what's behind every pagan god. as a demon. And when demons demand worship, they take a high price. It's amazing to me how many people are shocked and appalled that God would ask Abraham to offer up his son Isaac. Isaac when God stopped him and didn't actually follow through with that requirement, but he just called him to be willing to do it, right? But God stopped him from doing that. How many people are appalled at the God of the Bible because he called Abraham to sacrifice Isaac and and actually didn't write But then they'll say that pagan religion is great when pagan religion almost always requires child sacrifice in one form or another. And so it's just this blindness uh that it really is satanic, to be honest with you. Anyway, that's just a big aside. Uh wasn't part of what I was planning on teaching, but anyway. So the other thing I love about what Jehoshaphat does here is not only does he tear down, but he also builds up. You see, it's one thing to tear down and to outlaw and to ban. But then what are you going to replace that with? How are the people going to know what they're supposed to do? You tell them, oh, get rid of that high place, get rid of that ash room, get rid of that bail altar. Well what are we supposed to do? Well now he sends out this team of teachers or teams of teachers to go out throughout Judah teaching people the law of the Lord. And so we have all these guys who are being sent out. We have five uh royal officials, we have two priests, and then we have these Levites. And they're going out and they have the book of the law of the Lord and they're teaching the people. It is so important that God's people be built up in the Word of God. It's why we're committed to this three-year process of teaching through the whole Bible, one chapter. Because it's so vital for God's people to be built up in knowing the Lord through his word. And God blesses them. God blesses them mightily. and give gives them peace. And just like Asa, Jehoshaphat uses this time of peace to prepare for war. Because as I said when we were talking about that in uh second Chronicles fourteen, I think It was when you have this time of peace, prepare for war. And so that's what we see Jehoshaphat doing. And he's got he's got basically a million guys here. I didn't really do the math but uh you've got three hundred thousand plus two hundred eighty thousand plus twenty thousand plus twenty thousand I mean that's almost a million right there and then you've got a hundred and eighty thousand so you're over a million now and Uh they've got these men who are in different companies and under different commanders. And the reason for that is that they wouldn't all serve at all at the same time. They some of them would serve and others would go back and work the farm with their families, these were farmer soldiers, these were citizen soldiers, kind of like National Guard. And so they're in this rotating schedule of serving. So this is this is a wise and and great thing and God's giving them great blessing and he's giving them great blessing because the king is committed to doing what Now, I scrolled down far enough on the screen that if you're watching this and not listening to it, you could see what the title of chapter 18 is. We'll get there in a couple of days. Jehoshaphat makes an alliance with Ahab. Hmm. Another man of God who's gonna stumble and into foolishness. Okay, we'll save that for later. But now we can just say, here's a man who seeks the Lord, who is determined to do what is right, and God blesses him. And i I think I think there's okay to take that as a simple call to us to say, uh Uh to say what, though? To say if you seek the Lord and you're faithful to him, he's going to bless you with seventy-seven hundred rams and seventy-seven hundred goats and over a million men in your army? No. That's not the right thing to conclude here. The right thing to conclude here is that God's purposes for your life, God's plans for your life, God's promises to you. are are fixed and sure in the Lord Jesus Christ, who's the fulfillment of all of those promises. But you will experience them, you will walk in them, you will live them more fully, the more faithful you are to trust Trusting God and walking with Jesus through life day by day. And we don't know what form that blessing may come. As we were in Hebrews eleven a couple days ago, we saw sometimes that means you get sawn into Right? For Jehoshaphat, it means an army of more than a million men and great silver and gold and great security. But For Isaiah the prophet, for Jeremiah the prophet, for John the Baptist, for 11 of the 12 apostles, it meant a bloody death. And so we have to trust God that He's going to accomplish His purposes through us and we trust Him, despite what our eyes can see. And we're blessed. We're blessed. Because you know what? Isaiah and Jeremiah and the apostles and John the Baptist, you know what? They were even more blessed and even more greatly used of God than Jehoshaphat. Even though in an earthly existence they had far less. So we need to follow the example of Jehoshaphat here, not expecting that, hey, that means I'm going to have a huge house and lots of money and I can fund all sorts of wonderful things for God's kingdom, it may mean that we suffer and are rejected and are alienated. But that would make us more like Jesus, wouldn't it? And that would be far worse than Let's pray. Father, thank you for your love and thank you for your faithfulness. You are so good to us. You've given us everything we need for life and eternity through our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, your Son. And we're thankful for that. We want to be more faithful. We want to be more faithful, more diligent. We want to be kept by you. We want to follow close after you. So do this work in our hearts that you alone Well, that's Second Chronicles sixteen. Lord willing, Mike will be here tomorrow to continue our study, uh, heading back to Hebrews chapter twelve, and then on Sunday picking up with Second Chronicles eighteen. Have a blessed day in the Lord.