Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Old Presbyterian Church. We're in 2 Chronicles 36 wrapping up this book Which really wraps up the whole history of Kings and Chronicles that we've been in for quite some time. We'll be moving on past this era of the kings and the divided kingdom that we've spent uh quite a bit of time in. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we come to this final chapter too. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. Every part of your word is a rich treasure for us, given to us by you in love. Because you care for us, because you want to build us up as your children, as your church, and you want us to learn how to glorify you, how to trust you, how to walk by faith with you, and how to how to learn of you. So we pray that you would be our teacher today. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts and minds and that you would draw us close to yourself. And we pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Second Chronicles 36. The people of the land took Jehoahaz, the son of Josiah. and made him king in his father's place in Jerusalem. Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. Then the king of Egypt deposed him in Jerusalem and laid on the land a tribute of a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold. And the king of Egypt made Eliakim, his brother, king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. But Neko took Jehoahaz his brother and carried him to E Egypt. Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. He did what was evil in the sight of Of the Lord his God. Against him came Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and bound him in chains to take him to Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar also carried part of the vessels of the house of the Lord to Babylon and put them in his palace in Babylon. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim and the abomination that he did and what was found against him, behold they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. And Jehoiakin, his son, reigned in his place. Jehoiakim was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem. He did what was evil. In the sight of the Lord. In the spring of the year, King Nebuchadnezzar sent and brought him to Babylon with the precious vessels of the house of the Lord, and made his brother Zedekiah. king over Judah and Jerusalem. Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign. And he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord his God. He did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet who spoke from the mouth of the Lord. He also rebelled against Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear by God. He stiffened his neck And hardened his heart against turning to the Lord the God of Israel. All the officers of the priests and the people likewise were exceedingly unfaithful. following all the abominations of the nations, and they polluted the house of the Lord that he had made holy in Jerusalem. The Lord, the God of their fathers, sent persistently to them by his messengers, because he had compassion on his people and on his dwelling place. But they kept mocking the messengers of God, despising his words and scoffing at his prophets, until the wrath of the Lord rose against his people. Until there was no remedy. Therefore he brought against them the king of the Chaldeans, who killed their young men with the sword and the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion. On young man or virgin, old man or aged, he gave them all into his hand, and all the vessels of the house of God, great and small and the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the king and of his princes, all these he brought to Babylon And they burned the house of God, and broke down the wall of Jerusalem, and burned all its palaces with fire, and destroyed all its precious vessels. He took into exile in Babylon those who had escaped from the sword, and they became servants to him and to his sons, until the establishment of the kingdom of Persia. to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah until the land enjoyed its Sabbaths. All the days that it lay desolate, it kept Sabbath to fulfill seventy years. Now, in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord By the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia So that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and also put it in writing. Thus says Cyrus, King of Persia, The Lord, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth. and has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever is among you, of all his people, may the Lord his God be with him. Let him go Thus ends the Book of Chronicles with the decree of Cyrus the Great to restore the people of God to Jerusalem. for the rebuilding of the temple. So, excuse me, immediately after the death of Josiah, you have Four successive rulers, three months, and then he's removed and his brothers put in place, and then three months and he's removed and his brothers put in place for eleven years. Three months and eleven years, three months and eleven eleven years. Removed by the king of Egypt, and then removed by the king of Babylon. So the first one Jehoahs, he's taken by the people, and he's made king in his father's place in Jerusalem. But the king of Egypt comes. This is just three months after the battle in which Josiah is killed. So obviously the king of Egypt is uh doling out retribution. That's what he's doing. It's like He's doling out retribution on Jerusalem and on Judah for the fact that Josiah went out and opposed him in battle. So this is a punishment. This is a consequence. Uh but also the king of Egypt wants Judah to be a buffer state between him and the rising power of Babylon, because Babylon is becoming a very great threat to the stability of the world, including to the security of Egypt itself. And so part of what Pharaoh is doing Is he saying, I'm gonna have Judah as a vassal state and they control this important strip of land you can't really get practically from Babylon down to Egypt. uh without passing through Judah. There is another way you can go, but it's much, much, much more difficult. Uh and so the best way to come is along the coastal highway, which goes through Judah. And so that's why the king of Egypt makes Eliakim, his brother, king over Judah, and changes his name to Jehoahaz. I'm sorry, Jehoiakim. Jehoiakim. So Jehoiakim's twenty-five years old and he reigns eleven years. And Nebuchadnezzar comes up and defeats him. This is part of the power struggle between Babylon and Egypt, which Babylon is going to win. Part of Babylon winning against Egypt is that Babylon conquers Egypt's vassal state, that's the border, the buffer, between Babylon and Egypt. And so Nebuchadnezzar conquers Jerusalem and he takes uh um He takes Jehoiakim and he takes him off into captivity and Jehoiakim becomes king. And he only lasts three months before the king of Babylon decides, I'm going to remove him and I'm going to put in place his brother Zedekiah. And then Zedekiah reigns for 11 years. None of these guys are good kings, but Zedekiah is probably the worst of the lot. He's written about quite a bit in the book of Jeremiah, which we'll get to. And he's just he's just stuck. I mean Jeremiah gives prophecy after prophecy, warning after warning, and things start coming true, and Zedekiah just hardens his heart digs in his heels, refuses to repent, and so it's very, very well summarized here in verse thirteen. Um he hardened his heart, he stiffened his neck and hardened his heart against turning to the Lord. And it wasn't just Zedekiah. If you read Jeremiah the prophet, you find out, I mean, there was a ministry when Josiah was king where things were relatively good until Josiah died, and then Jeremiah had has just a most miserable time because the officers of the priests and the people, they're just so unfaithful. They throw them in a cistern, they lock them in the guard house, they put them on meager rations. They just really are abusive. to Jeremiah, who had been the son of the high priest and who had been a court favorite when Josiah was king. But mm he has fallen into disfavor because he speaks the truth. And in times of trouble the truth is one thing that people do. Do not want to hear. And so Jeremiah is not willing to play the political games and to make the people feel better about themselves because he insists on speaking the truth, he must be punished. And so God continues to have mercy by sending messengers, by sending people who will give them warning and call them to repent. And no, they They just don't. They mock the messengers of God, they despise God's word, they scoff at his prophets, until the wrath of God rises against the people, until there was no remedy. End of verse 16 there, so powerful, just such a statement of mercy upon mercy upon mercy by God, message after message after message. Message and the people just say, No, we will not, no, we will not, until finally the wrath of God is coming and there's no remedy. And so So Nebuchadnezzar comes and he destroys and he kills and he breaks everything down and he takes them into exile and everybody becomes And then there's this note in verse 27 of part of the reason for this exile is that it would last for 70 years, which is what God had foretold through the prophet Jeremiah. uh until it kept its Sabbath, till it enjoyed its Sabbath. So the law said that every seven years you were supposed to let the fields lie fallow and just eat whatever grows naturally the sort of volunteer uh returnees, but you're not supposed to plow and sow and reap and cultivate You're supposed to let the land rest. And you're supposed to plan ahead for this and save up because the land should rest once every seven years. Israel never did this. And so there were 490 years worth of Sabbaths that were unkept, 70 right, times 7, 490, every seven years for 490 years. They were supposed to let the land rest. And so God gives the land its rest. God's will will be done. It's going to be done. We can resist against it. We can fight against it. We can complain about it. We can harden our hearts to it, and we lose consistently. God's will will be done. God's will will not be thwarted And so this is an example to us, a call to us to say, we need to take seriously what God's Word says. We need to obey Him. We need to seek Him. We need to humble ourselves. We need The Lord. The Lord is gracious though, despite all this ongoing sin, so that after seventy years of exile, King Cyrus of Persia, who takes over after Babylon and takes over even a larger kingdom, the largest kingdom it had ever been, and he issues decree saying Yahweh has told me to build them a house at Jerusalem. We're going to do that. We're going to restore all the people. Now, the original idea here, we'll get into this in Ezra and Nehemiah and some later prophets, but the idea was that the people were supposed to go off and the people were supposed to go supposed to rebuild it. And they kind of make a bad start of it. They get kind of get started, they build a foundation, they build an altar, but then they don't really finish it. They're too busy finishing their own houses. And Haggai the prophet and Zechariah and the officials, Ezra and Nehemiah, are calling the people to finish that. And that's that's later. But what we need to see here is a very clear pattern, and that is that when when God's people are in decline, Because they've rejected God's word, they've rejected His authority, consequences come. And even as the consequences are coming, there are voices that are coming calling them to repent, and yet they keep declaring And I think of the last hundred years or so of church history, this year, 2023, is the 100th anniversary of a great classic by J. Gresham Machin called Christianity. Now he's talking about theological liberalism. So a hundred years ago, the mainline Presbyterian Church in the North, the U as well as the mainline Episcopal Church and the Mainline Methodist Church were infected. With a modernism, a theological liberalism, and a modernism that said the Bible's not really the Word of God. contain the Word of God, but it is not in and of itself authoritative. It only becomes authoritative as the church accepts it. And all this kind of mushy squishy language And by e by 1923 there were large sections of professing Christians in America who said, Jesus was not born of a virgin, Jesus did not bodily resurrect from the dead. Jesus did not perform any miracles during his earthly ministry. You don't have to believe in Jesus for salvation. All good people will end up in heaven in the end, and most people are good people, and the Bible's not completely without error. It has errors and contradictions in it. They denied these five fundamentals. of the Christian faith. And so those who were upholding those five fundamentals, the inerrancy of the Word of God, the necessity of faith in Christ for salvation, The virgin birth, the bodily resurrection, the reality of miracles, the historical reality of miracles. Mainline churches. And what happened was a slow decline, progressively over time, along with a lot of voices saying You need to repent. You need to repent. You need to repent. Until today, all of the mainline churches, the old mainline churches, are all a shadow of what they used to be And they have no spiritual vitality. And they've basically become left-wing political organizations because they don't really have anything else to preach but a gospel of Leftism. And it's sad. But you know what's happening in the evangelical world? In the evangelical world, we believe and affirm that the Bible is the Word of God, but we want to trust in human techniques and human strategies to build up the church. And so we embrace worldliness, marketing. Entertainment. We want to make church into a show, a laid-back entertaining show, rather than the worship of the one true God who is holy, holy, holy. And we are being told. This is not good. And we're becoming politicized as well. And so what's what happened to liberal mainline Christianity a hundred years ago to the present is happening. Among evangelicals in the present, and it is a sad trajectory, and we are called to repent. And when God calls his people to repent, we must humble ourselves and repent. We must return to the Word of God, return to biblical standards for worship and evangelism and discipleship and missions, and we must honor the Lord because the Lord is God. And there is no other. And that ought to be the lesson of Kings and Chronicles for us, is that the church, if it is to survive, if it is to have any vitality If it is to be blessed, if it is to have any influence on the world, must be loyal to our King, King Jesus. Jesus to his kingdom, to his gospel, to his worship, to his mission, to his commission. That's our calling Let's pray. Father, we need you. We are your church. We cannot be co-opted by the world and think that we're going to survive. We cannot seek our own agenda and our own clever techniques and think that that will successfully build your church. We are yours. We've been bought by the blood of your Son. Make us faithful to you. Make us faithful to you in all that we do. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is 2 Chronicles 36. Thank you for joining me for Kings and Chronicles. We're going to jump to 2 John tomorrow. Hope you can be there for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.