Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forestow Presbyterian Church. It is day six hundred and eight, and we are in Second Chronicles chapter 30 and we're continuing in the ministry of Hezekiah, ministry of Hezekiah, the reign of Hezekiah as king, and uh a wonderful event happens in King Hezekiah. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into this chapter today. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, unfailing, perfect in all that it teaches us and all that it can be Conveys without error, given by you for us, for our good. Father, please bless us to help us to understand your word. And to grow in your word. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah and wrote letters also to Ephraim. Had taken counsel to keep the Passover in the second month, for they could not keep it at that time, because the priests had not consecrated themselves in sufficient number. nor had the people assembled in Jerusalem. And the plan seemed right to the king and all the assembly, so they decreed to make a proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beersheba to Dan That the people should come and keep the Passover to the Lord the God of Israel at Jerusalem, for they had not kept it as often as prescribed. So couriers went throughout all Israel and Judah with letters from the king and his princes, as the king had commanded, saying, O people of Israel, return to the Lord the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel. Do not be like your fathers and your brothers, who were faithless to the Lord God of their fathers, so that he made them a desolation as you see. Do not now be stiff-necked as your fathers were, but Yield yourselves to the Lord and come to his sanctuary, which he has consecrated forever, and serve the Lord your God, that his fierce anger may turn away from you. For if you return to the Lord, your brothers and your children will find compassion with their captors and return So the couriers went from city to city throughout the early However, some of the men of Asher of Manasseh Manasseh and of Zebulun humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem. The hand of God was also on Judah to give them one heart to do what the king and the princes commanded by the word of the Lord. And many people came together in Jerusalem to keep the feast of unleavened bread in the second month of very Ordered the Passover Lamb on the fourteenth day of the second month, and the priests and the Levites were ashamed, so that they consecrated themselves and brought They took their accustomed posts according to the law of Moses, the man of God, the priests, through the blood that they had received from the hand to consecrate it to the Lord, for a majority of the people, many of them from Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, Zebulun, had not cleansed them themselves. Yet they ate the Passover otherwise than as prescribed. For Hezekiah had prayed for them. I am saying, May the good Lord pardon everyone who sets his heart to seek God, the Lord, the God of his fathers, even though not according to the sanctuary's rules Of cleanness. And the Lord heard Hezekiah and healed the people. And the people of Israel who were present at Jerusalem kept the feast of unleavened And the Levites and the Priests praised the Lord day by day, singing with all their might to the Lord. And Hezekiah spoke encouragingly to all the Levites, who showed good skill in the service of the Lord. And giving thanks to the Lord, the God of their fathers. Then the whole assembly agreed together to keep the feast for another seven days. So they kept it for another seven days with gladness. For Hezekiah, king of Judah, gave the assembly one thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep for offerings. And the princes gave the assembly one thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep. And the priests consecrated themselves in great numbers, the whole assembly of Judah, and the priests, and the Levites, and the whole assembly that came out of Israel, and the sojourn. Who came out of the land of Israel, and the sojourners who lived in Judah rejoiced. So there was the great joy in Jerusalem. For since the time of Solomon. the son of David, king of Israel, there had been nothing like this in Jerusalem. Then the priests and the Levites arose and blessed the people, and their voice was heard, and their prayer Not being done exactly according to the Word of God. It's not precisely in keeping with the details of the law. But it is being done In keeping with the spirit of the law. And it is being offered up in sincerity. And God hears them. Their prayer, the prayer of the priests and the Levites, to bless the people. People, their prayer came to his holy habitation in heaven. God heard from heaven and blessed them, even though everything was not exactly what it should be. Alright, so this Passover celebration, it's unique. Right? We read at the end of this chapter, nothing like this had happened since the days of Solomon. son of David. What do we know about since the days of Solomon? Well since the days of Solomon, the southern kingdom of Judah with Judah and Benjamin, and the northern kingdom of Israel with the other ten tribes. tribes they were split. And immediately Jeroboam, the first king of the northern tr uh kingdom of Israel, set up golden calves at Bethel and at Dan, and said, This is where And he said, Don't go down to the temple to worship under the Levites. And who could probably pay the fee that was involved in registering to be a priest? This is now calling all of God's people in unity. Notice the opening words. Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah. And wrote letters also to Ephraim and So just in case you didn't catch the idea that this is all Israel and Judah, he says, yes, there's even letters being written to Ephraim and Manasseh. Manasseh, which is the far northest tri northernest tribes, and some of the largest populations of that northern kingdom of Israel that had separated itself. from the kingdom of Judah hundreds of years before when Rehoboam was king of Judah and Jeroboam the first was king of Israel. This is a this is a proclamation through Throughout all Israel, from Beersheba to Dan. Dan, home of the golden calf, yes, even there. So that everybody, everybody should come. Now normally the Passover is supposed to be in the first month, but they delay it to the second month because they're just not ready and they They don't want to put it off for a whole year. They want to keep the Passover. It's been centuries since the Passover had been kept by all of Israel, and they feel like it's more important to make it happen. Quickly, obediently, because of the long neglect of centuries, rather than put it off for another year until everything was perfectly And so they sent out the word. And what we see is that most people did not respond. Most people just Simply laughed at them. We see that down in verse ten. The couriers went out from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh as far as Zebulun, but they laughed. Judah, he's not our king. time and now we're just we have our golden calves, we have our priests, we have our system set up. Who are they to come in and tell us what they think we should be doing. They just ridiculed. But I love those first three words in verse 11. However some men. Are you one of those? Because the world laughs and scorns at Christianity. Oh, people get up on Sunday morning and they go to church like they did in old fashioned times? Oh, what a quaint little expression of an outdated religion. I mean, who is this Jesus guy? He's just a guy who died a long time ago And he's got nothing to do with my life. This doesn't have anything to do with what I'm doing. We have our own patterns. We have our own priorities. However some men. Are you part of that holy remnant that God is calling who's saying, I'm going to go and I'm going to worship the way God tells me to worship? No matter what the world says, no matter how few are the people who come with me. Now Judah, they were blessed by God. They were given one heart to do what the king and the prince You may live in an area, you may be part of an area where the the majority of people are going and worshiping the Lord. Or you may be in an area where it's hardly anybody. You may be in a family where the you're the only one in your family who goes. And the rest of your family laughs at you. Or you may be part of a multi-generational legacy of Christian heritage where where you're all going uh to church together. God blesses that. And what's important here when they come together is that they worship God in spirit and in truth to the best of their ability. Not all the priests were as consecrated as they should have been. Not all the people who came were as consecrated as they should have been. The Levites, who were the most consecrated, they were the ones who sprinkled the blood. Verse 18, those from Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, Zebulun, those are the farther northern uh people who came down from the northern kingdom of Israel. They probably didn't even know about the regulations. There were no Levites who were teaching among the towns in the northern kingdom of Israel. They probably had never read the scriptures, they probably had no idea, so they come as they're able to, right? Here's an application of this for us. When people come into our church to visit. Do we expect that they know how to do all the things That we know how to do? Do we expect that they know how to follow along in a bulletin? When to stand, when to sit, what a hymnal is, where it is? Do we expect that they know how to conduct themselves themselves as believers if they haven't been accustomed to going to church and worshiping God. We need to make sure that we are being welcoming. Now being welcoming is different from some where some churches have gone by being seeker driven. And seeker-driven or seeker-sensitive, they say, is to make the whole of the worship service all oriented toward non-believers. That's not what's happening here. These are God's people who are being welcomed in, but there is a gentleness and a patience with those who are ignorant of the way, who don't understand how to worship properly. And we need to be patient and able to instruct and lovingly encouraging all of those who are Coming to worship. The other thing they do is they come with generous hearts. And 10,000 sheep. So they come with a generosity to share, to spread the joy. And so that's what we should be doing. We should be coming with a generosity to share and to spread the joy. Because the worship of God should be a cause for great joy. We are called out of the world. We are set apart by God and for God. We are f Forgiven of all of our sins. We are cleansed. We are loved. And so our worship should be joyful, and we should give so that it is able to And I just again want to come back and end with that last phrase. Worship that is Sincere, worship that is in faith, worship that is obedient, worship that is generous, worship that is welcoming, is heard by God, is seen by God, and is holy tabitation in heaven and is blessed by God, who ultimately through the Passover Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ, has made the way for us. To have access to his throne of grace, have a relationship with him forever, be in included in the eternal joy of the Godhead. And that is a reason to rejoice. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for such good word, such good love, such good grace, such good mercies. We're not perfect. And even if we believe and have faith, sometimes we don't get all the details right, and we may not do exactly what you call us to do even in our worship. But we pray that you would bless our worship whenever we gather. In in in our own personal worship, in our family worship, in our gathered worship as the church, would you bless it? Would you come and through our Passover Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the both the sacrifice and the priest, would you bring us Blessing, peace, forgiveness, joy. Joy that we can share with a world that desperately needs to hear the truth and walk in the joy of the Lord. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Love that Passover chapter. Tomorrow, more Hezekiah as he organizes the priests. So I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.