Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 612th day in God's Word together. And we are in 2 Chronicles 33. And we have the righteous king Hezekiah passing away, and uh, the not so righteous king Manasseh coming to the throne after him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we need you to be our God and our King always, every day of our lives. As we see patterns of sin. Among your people, we need to confess that unless you keep us, unless you preserve us, unless you guard us, we are prone to these same patterns of sin. The same pride, the same faithlessness live within us, within our flesh, where there dwells no good thing. But your grace, your spirit, your keeping of us is our hope and our confidence. We pray that you would keep us in Jesus' name. Amen. Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem. And he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, according to the abominations of the nations whom the Lord drove out before the people of Israel For he rebuilt the high places that his father Hezekiah had broken down. And he erected altars to the Baals. And he made Asheroth, and he worshipped all the hosts of heaven, and served them. And he built altars in the house of the Lord, of which the Lord had said In Jerusalem shall my name be forever. And he built altars for all the hosts of heaven in the two courts of the house of the Lord. And He burned his sons as an offering in the valley of the sun of Him. and used fortune-telling and omens and sorcery, and dealt with mediums and with necromancers, he did much evil in the sight of the Lord, provoking him to anger. And the carved image of the idol that he had made, he set in the house of God. Of which God said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put my name forever. And I will no more remove the foot of Israel from the land that I appointed for your fathers, if only They will be careful to do all that I have commanded them, all the law, the statutes, the rules given through Moses. Manasseh led Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem astray to do more evil. than the nations whom the Lord destroyed before the people of Israel. The Lord spoke to Manasseh and to his people, but they paid no attention. Therefore the Lord brought upon them the commanders of the army of the king of Assyria who captured Manasseh with hooks and bound him with chains of bronze and brought him to Babylon. And when he was in distress, he entreated the favor of the Lord his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers He prayed to him, and God was moved by his entreaty and heard his plea, and brought him again to Jerusalem, into his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew That the Lord was God. Afterward, he built an outer wall for the city of David, west of Gihon, in the valley. for the and for the entrance into the fish gate, and carried it around Ofel, and raised it to a very great height He also put commanders of the army in all the fortified cities of Judah, and he took away the foreign gods and the idol from the house of the Lord. and all the altars that he had built on the mountain of the house of the Lord and in Jerusalem, and he threw them outside the city. He also restored the altar of the Lord, and offered on it sacrifices of peace offerings and of thanksgiving. And he commanded Judah to serve the Lord the God of Israel. Nevertheless The people still sacrificed at the high places, but only to the Lord their God. Now the rest of the Acts of Manasseh and his prayer to God And the words of the seers who spoke to him in the name of the Lord the God of Israel, behold, they are in the chronicles of the kings of Israel. in his prayer, and how God was moved by his entreaty, and all his sin, and his faithlessness, and the sites on which he built high places and set up the ashram. And the images before he humbled himself, behold, they are written in the chronicles of the Seers. So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his house, and Amon his son. reigned in his place. Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem. And he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, as Manasseh his father had done. Amon sacrificed to all the images that Manasseh his father had made and served them And he did not humble himself before the Lord, as Manasseh his father had humbled himself. But this Amon incurred guilt more and more. And his servants conspired against him and put him to death in his house. But the people of the land struck down all those who had conspired against King Amon, and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his house. His place, Josiah, is coming. He's my favorite of all of the kings of Judah, but we'll get to him in a couple of days. 2 Chronicles 33. The very powerful and interesting thing about Manasseh as recorded in Chronicles versus Kings is the repentance. Manasseh was a horrible, horrible king. I mean, you go down some dark, dark, dark paths with Manasseh. The things he did were worse than any other king before him had done. They were even. He led all the people of Judah to do even worse things. than the Canaanites who had inhabited the land before and who the Lord had kicked out because they had sinned up to the fullness of God's patience and God expelled them from the land. And Manasseh leads Judah to worse sin. That's bad. I mean, he's putting images and altars in the sanctuaries of the house of the Lord, not just within Jerusalem, not just on the Temple Mount, not just in the courts, but in The sanctuaries of the Lord's house, he's putting false gods and their altars. It's horrible. And he's taking his sons and he's burning them. In the Valley of the Sun of Hinnem, Gehenna, that we talked about before, he's using fortune teller, he's using omens, he's g doing s sorcery Uh it's just horrible. It's just horrible beginning to end. Not to end. It's horrible in depth that no other king has known. But he also gets a punishment that no other king has known, and that is these Babylonian envoys whom his father Hezekiah had entertained and had shown the riches. Well, Babylon comes back. Actually, sorry, the King of Assyria comes back. Uh and King of Assyria comes back. And he captures Manasseh and he takes him off with hooks and chains and brings him to Babylon. So it's the commanders of the king of Assyria who bring him to Babylon. Which is where in the future all of God's people, not all of God's people, it's where Jerusalem is going to be sent into exile. This is this transition period between Assyria and Babylon. Babylon is originally a powerful city that is kind of within the Assyrian Empire and kind of has an alliance with the Assyrian Empire, but they're also kind of an independent city-state. It's complicated the politics of the ancient But they're gonna rise up and they're gonna overthrow the Assyrian Empire when um Nebuchadnezzar becomes king of Babylon and they're gonna become an even greater empire. But right now it's this both. But so so the Babylonian envoys probably did bring back word of all the great wealth and they got the commanders of the army, the king of Syria, who had been so devastated when Hezekiah had been king, and here they go back in this together and they bring Manasseh into Babylon. He's the first king, not the last king, but he's the first king to be taken off to Babylon. But there he prays to the Lord, and he's given mercy. He's forgiven. He's restored. And he makes the most of it because after he's forgiven and he's restored, he works on building up the city for defense But he also works on purifying the city of all the garbage that he had brought into it. Takes away the foreign gods and the idol, takes away the altars. throws them outside the city. He restores the Lord's altar. He offers on it sacrifice. Now the high places remain. Remember the high places are this idea in the pagan worldview that you get higher up to heaven you get closer to the gods. And so on the top of every hill and mountain throughout all of Jerusalem, people would have altars. To try to reach heaven. They weren't supposed to do that. They were only supposed to come to the temple in Jerusalem. But at least at this point, they're only worshiping Yahweh, their God, on these high places. So he we have reference to two lost uh chronicles. The Chronicles of the Kings of Israel, that's a different book than the book of Chronicles. the Chronicles of the Sears, that's a different book. Apparently there's a lot more detail in those record books, but those record books have been lost to history. They were not scripture. They were just record books and it would be nice historically to have them, but Uh God and his providence saw fit that we don't have them because they aren't scripture. Maybe people would think they're scripture if we had them. I don't know. I always wonder, why do we not have these source books that the author of Kings and the author of Chronicles make reference to and God is wise in his providence he knows probably that we couldn't handle having them because we'd try to make them into what they're not, right? And so Amon comes. We get a very, very short account of Amon, who has a very short reign, only two years. And basically he spends two years trying to undo the reform of Manasseh and go back to to good old days of Manasseh's early reign, which is probably when Amon was a child. And so he's like, We need to go back to where we were when I was growing up. I remember when I was growing up in Jerusalem, there were it wasn't just Yahweh that was worshipped here. There were all sorts of people worshipped here. And he gets about two years of doing that, and then all the servants are like Now he's going to take us down the same stupid road his father took us down, and that didn't end well for us. Get rid of him. So they got rid of him. Um and but then the people said, No, you can't just kill the king, and so we're gonna get rid of you And at the end of it all, eight-year-old Josiah becomes king in the place of Amon, and he is going to be um A good king, but still not King Jesus, we'll get to him in a couple of days. What do we learn from 2 Chronicles 33 Well, we learn that no matter how far into sin someone may fall, we can pray that God would grant them repentance. And God may be pleased to hear that prayer. No matter how far we fall into sin, we can pray to God that He would have mercy on us and He will have mercy on us. There is no depth of sin and depravity and faithlessness that God is not able to reach into and get us out of. A few days ago we were in 1 John 5 and we talked about the sin of apostasy and the reality of that. And I know some of you who watch these devotionals You have people you love dearly, children, grandchildren, who are in the sin of apostasy, and you think, well, maybe they're so far gone that there's no hope. Keep praying. Don't pray for them to be forgiven of that sin and remain in it, right? That's what John's warning against. Don't pray, oh Lord, you know, overlook this sin and bring them into heaven anyway. No, they need to get out of that sin. They need to come back to Christ. You can pray for that. And if ever they come to their senses, if ever they say, Lord, have mercy on me, I'm sorry. I I need you. If ever they cry out to the Lord, God will be gracious and He will heal them and He will turn them back, and they will be prodigals who return to their father's house. And not those who are cut off and lost forever. And Manasseh is a great picture of that. Um and so I think that's I'm just gonna leave it at that. That is the sole encouragement for us to get today. And that is that no one is beyond hope. While there's breath, there's hope is the motto of the state of South Carolina. While I breathe, I hope. And so we need to Continue to pray for those we love who are wandering far off from the Lord, that God would be pleased to grant them repentance. And again, as always with all of these kings, we need to be so thankful that we have King Jesus who is perfect and who is able to lead his people back to the Father. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for your Son. Lord Jesus, we do pray for those we know and love who are wandering far from you. We know we have children, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, parents, friends, former students who are just They've wandered off. They've they've they've fallen into depths of sin. They've given themselves over to the world and it's foolishness that we pray. That you would give them repentance and restore them, bring them to faith in Christ, save them, rescue them from the hand of the enemy, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. That is 2 Chronicles 33. Thanks for joining me tomorrow. We're in the Psalms. Psalms 90 and 91 are on tap for tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. And again, as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.