Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and I hope you're doing very well on this 1041st day, day number 1041, of our journey through the Word of God, we come today to 2 Corinthians chapter 13. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Father in heaven, thank you for your word, every part of your word, to true and good and right. Father, be with us. Speak to us. Build us up in Christ. Encourage us, comfort us, correct us. Let your work breathe out, your word breathed out by you, do its work in our hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Second Corinthians chapter thirteen. This is the third time I am coming to you. Every charge must be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. I warned those who sinned before, and all the others, as I warned them now, while absent, as I did not when as I did when present on my second visit. That if I come again, I will not spare them, since you seek proof that Christ is speaking in me. He is not weak in dealing with you, but is powerful among you. For he was crucified in weakness, but lives by the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but in dealing with you, we all live with him by the power of God. Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Or do you not realize this about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you unless, indeed, you fail to meet the test? I hope you will find out that we have not failed the test, but we pray to God that you may not do wrong. Not that we may appear to have met the test, but that you may do what is right, though we may seem to have failed. For we cannot do anything against the truth, but only for the truth. For we are glad when we are weak and you are strong. Your restoration is what we pray for. For this reason, I write these things while I am away from you, that when I come, I may not have to be severe in my use of the authority that the Lord has given me For building up and not for tearing down. Finally, brothers, rejoice. Aim for restoration. Comfort one another. Agree with one another. Live in peace. And the God of love and peace will be with you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the saints greet you. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. And thus concludes the wonderful book of 2 Corinthians. We've gotten a lot of gospel comfort. We've gotten a lot of gospel instruction from this book. And Paul's not done with us yet. Sometimes the headings that they put in the ESV or in any modern translation to try to summarize the contents of a section of scripture can be I don't know, very dull. Final warnings. What does that mean? Final warnings. Well, Paul's saying, listen guys I I've I've been with you twice. I founded the church, planted it, was there for over a year and a half. I came back on a repeat visit to deal with some issues that had cropped up that I addressed in my earlier letter. And then I wrote another letter, and now I'm coming again for a third visit, and this is like the third letter probably. Everything's established by two or three witnesses. This is your last opportunity to repent. What do they need to repent of? Well, in questioning Paul's apostolic authority, in criticizing and undermining Paul's call from God, his mission as being sent by God, they're actually questioning the Lord Jesus Christ. They are in danger of abandoning their faithfulness to Christ by abandoning their faithfulness to Christ's appointed apostles. And instead going after these so-called super apostles who have superior training in rhetoric, and actually not even superior training in rhetoric, but they lead with You see, they they minister out of and lead with human wisdom, human rhetoric, and not with the power of God. Jesus, when he was here on earth, was crucified in weakness. for the good of his people. He came in weakness. It's not that Jesus didn't have the power. He did. And at times he demonstrated that power quite clearly and quite convincingly. But for the most part he lived And was humble, homeless, wandering Traveling by foot, sleeping as a guest, and then in the end was absolutely humiliated to utter weakness See, Paul's weaknesses, Paul's trials, Paul's sufferings are being used against him By these so-called superapostles. I just think of them as what really what they are, first century prosperity preachers, who say, well, if you were really God's anointed you would command a large sum whenever you go preaching because God's anointed should get a godly sized thumb. for whenever you preach, you would have the wisdom of God so flowing from your lips that people would fall over in amazement at how wonderful you are. And Paul just says, I if I were to give in to that for half a minute, It would be betraying Christ. It would be betraying you. You see, when we try to do gospel ministry by the power of human means, slick marketing. clever rhetoric, dynamic human personality, charisma, whatever We are actually undermining the message of the cross, which is that God saved us. By humbling himself to the point of death on a cross, and Jesus calls us to take up a cross and follow him. Those who want the earthly success, those who want the worldly glory, those who want all the show-stopping bells and whistles now in this life. are just sadly mistaken. Tragically led astray. And Paul's not going to go down that road. But what here's what he will do. He will discipline those who are trying to lead God's people down that road. This is the same road, by the way, that issues dealt with in 1 Corinthians would have Christians taking one another to court. would tolerate gross sexual immorality in the church, would have the church divided up into cults of personality of I follow Paul, I follow Apollos, I follow Cephas It leads to division, it leads to carnality, it leads to worldliness, it leads to greediness, this mindset. And so Paul says, I'm going to come. And you've got to repent, or I'm going to deal with this. And Paul says, I don't care if I'm weak, I don't care if you think that I fail your test of superiority. I don't, that doesn't matter to me. I will use the authority that I do have in the Lord for building up the church by getting rid of the cancerous influence if those within the church will not repent. Now, in our modern age of sort of relativistic tolerance, we don't like this kind of language. What do you mean, being severe in your use of the authority that the Lord has given you? What do you mean that, you know, you have you'll deal with you by the power of God? Well, it's not that Paul wants to tear down the church. It's not that Paul is on an ego trip. It's not that Paul is only wanting to keep people who are lo loyal to him and kick out the people who are not loyal to him. That's what people do when they're exercising power in a human way for human means. They get their yes men around them, they kick everyone else out, they serve their own interests and their own priorities. And they push to the periphery or they exclude from the church those who don't line up with what they want. That is wrong, wrong, wrong. Paul's not going to do that. But church discipline is a real thing Warning people to repent and then dealing with them by excluding them if they will not repent and they are a cancerous influence in the church. That is a real legitimate use of Christ's authority. And that's what Paul's going to do. But in the end, he doesn't want to focus on the possible need for this Testing and this authority to exclude. That's not what he wants to focus on. What he wants to focus on is on what Christ has died to secure, which is the peace the joy, the comfort, and the unity of his church. Christ laid down his life so that his church could experience joy, restoration, comfort. Unity, peace, love. And that's what he closes with. Let's instead of being so distracted, instead of being so dismayed, by these worldly voices and by these divisive influences. Let's deal with them if we need to deal with them. And Paul's prepared to deal with them. But wouldn't it be so much better if we could focus on the grace of God? The love of God, the fellowship of God, the the joy of the Lord, the comfort of the gospel, the unity that we have in Christ. Wouldn't that be great to just move forward in gospel unity? and loving ministry. We can do that if we all have our eyes fixed on King Jesus and focused on his kingdom priorities for his church. If we don't, if we've got worldly influences, if if we're torn apart by people trying to pull the church in a dozen different directions for their own self-interest, then it all falls apart. So, my prayer, my prayer for Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, my prayer for good and godly churches, wherever they may be, is that Christ will be the head. that the Undershepherds, the elders, would be faithful to follow Christ, and that the whole church would have exactly what's here at the end. Joy. Restoration of those who fall to be restored, comfort, unity, peace, love, And the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit binding our hearts together in love for Jesus and love for one another. Let's pray. Father, would you do this work by your Holy Spirit at Forest Hill Presbyterian Church and at every good and godly church? That's represented by those who are gathered here for these daily devotionals. Would you build up and strengthen your church? Would you strengthen the unity? The godliness, the kingdom-mindedness, the peace, the love of your churches, that you might be honored, that your kingdom might advance, that your people might be blessed We pray this, Heavenly Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that was Second Corinthians. I hope it was a blessing to you. It was to me. We're going to go back to the prophet Amos tomorrow. Hope you can join us for that. Have a blessed day. In the Lord, you can do it.