Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. It is so good to be with you. It's our 1023rd day. Well, that's a weird looking I got typed in there. Let's see if I can fix that. It's our 1023rd day, and we are here in 2nd Corinthians chapter 8. I've got my cup of coffee, fresh and hot and tasty, and here we are. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are great and greatly to be praised worthy of our trust, worthy of our worship. Meet us as we open your word together. Teach us. Grow us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. 2 Corinthians chapter 8. We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches at Macedonia. 4. In a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own accord, begging us earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints. And this not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, and then by the will of God to us. so he should complete among you this act of grace. But as you excel in everything, in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in all earnestness, and in our love for you, See that you excel in this act of grace also. I say this not as a command, but to prove by the earnestness of others that your love also is genuine For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. so that you, by his poverty, might become rich. And in this matter I give my judgment. This benefits you who a year ago started not only to do this work, but also to desire to do it. So now finish doing it as well, so that your readiness in desiring it may be matched by your completing it out of what you have. For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have. For I do not mean that others should be eased and you burdened, but that as a matter of fairness, your abundance at the present time should supply their need, so that their abundance may supply your need, that there may be fairness. As it is written, whoever gathered much had nothing left over, and whoever gathered little had no lack. But thanks be to God. Who put into the heart of Titus the same earnest care I have for you. For he not only accepted our appeal, but being himself very earnest, he is going to you of his own accord. With him we are sending the brother who is famous among all the churches for his preaching of the gospel, and not only that, but he has been appointed by the churches to travel with us to carry out this act of grace that is being ministered by us for the glory of the Lord Himself and to show our good will. We take this course so that no one should blame us about this generous gift that is being administered by us. For we aim at what is honorable, not only in the Lord's sight, but also in the sight of man. And with them we are sending our brother whom we have often tested and found earnest in many matters, but who is now more earnest than ever because of his great confidence in you. As for Titus He is my partner and fellow worker for your benefit. And as for our brothers, they are messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ. So give proof before the churches of your love and of our boasting about you to these men. Second Corinthians chapter eight. Good stuff. So there's been a famine. There's a deep need in Jerusalem and in Judah. The background here is that even going back to the days of the earthly ministry of Jesus, those who declared themselves to be followers of Jesus. were kicked out of their local synagogues. Now that's critically important because in the Jewish community the local synagogue was the place for support for people who were in need. So the church picked up this need to support. And so we see in the book of Acts they're distributing food to the widows. That's a function that would normally have been carried out by a synagogue. Especially since at this time all of the believers in Jerusalem were Jewish. But it's being done by the church because now the church has become the replacement for the synagogue because they were expelled from the synagogue, expelled from their community. Well now a famine has come. Some kind of drought, some kind of uh problem with the supply of wheat. We think we think there was a drought in Egypt, and that there was a a problem with the supply of wheat that came out of Egypt. Egypt. And but whatever the cause of it was, there's a famine. And God's people in Jerusalem and Judah are are hungry and they need food. And the price of food's gone up and so they can't they can't supply their own need within that community. And so the rest of the church is taking up an offering and bringing it down there to them. And this is being done on on a massive scale. And the Apostle Paul is one of the leaders coordinating this effort. So we get some important principles about giving here. One is that we give out of what God has given to us. Even if it's sacrificial. The Macedonians, the contrast here is the Macedonians are a relatively poor church. They don't have a lot But the Corinthians are a relatively rich church, they do have a lot. So if the Macedonians, who are in a test of affliction and have poverty, they have overflowed in a wealth of generosity, how much more so? Should the Corinthians. If the Macedonians, like the Philippians are part of this Macedonian group, if they're begging earnestly For the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints, how much more should the Corinthians, who are more financially blessed, be willing to give even more so? But ultimately the reason for this is not that the Corinthians can outshine the Philippians in giving generously. The motivation is Jesus. This isn't a command. This isn't a compulsion, but it's a show of love, a demonstration of love. That's rooted in who Jesus is and what he's done for us. That's why verse 9 really is the heart of this whole chapter For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that by his poverty you might become rich Jesus, the heir of God, is the only begotten Son of God, is the Prince of Heaven, is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He lived in splendor. and glory such as nothing on this earth could even begin to approach. And yet he gave it all up. He became the scandalously born child of young poor parents, parents who are too poor to offer the required offering for a firstborn, which would have been a lamb, they had to give the two pigeons or two turtle doves, which was the offering for the poor people. Joseph was a carpenter, craftsman, working class, skilled, but but on the lower end of the skilled craftsman. A blacksmith would have been higher than him, a goldsmith and silversmith higher still, or s you know No, he was he was a carpenter, which probably also included stonemason. He worked with his hands. He was a hard worker And then Jesus lived a an itinerant ministry, oftentimes sleeping out in the fields, having no place to lay his head, living off the generosity of others. But ultimately, he poured himself out to the end where he had absolutely nothing. Even his last stitch of clothing was gambled upon, cast lots by the soldiers. They took everything from him. He had nothing left. He died a penniless pauper and was laid in a borrowed tomb, a rich man's grave, but it wasn't his. He didn't have the money for a tomb. He did it for us. He did it for our salvation. He did it to make us rich with the love of God and to be a co-heir of God and to inherit the new heavens and the new earth which we were talking about yesterday. that everyone is going to have an abundance and no one's going to be left out even though it's going to be a multitude that no one can count. Jesus did all of this for us and so when we have the opportunity to give back to the work of God, to g to tithe to our local church, to give to a special offering to relieve those people who are in need, like the hurricane victims in the South or the the developing world churches that are struggling in poverty, we should be eager to give. Not, he says in verse 12, not that others should be eased and you burdened. But that as a matter of fairness, your abundance at the present time meets their need, so that at some time in the future perhaps their abundance could meet your need. And he appeals to a scriptural principle that had to do with the gathering of manna. Whoever gathered much had nothing left over, whoever gathered little had no lack. So this is about sharing, because of how good God's been to us. But he wants this to be done with the utmost integrity, transparency, and accountability. Paul doesn't say, trust us, we'll take care of it. He sends Titus and the brother who is famous among all the churches. And this wasn't just Paul's decision. It was the churches who decided this. And so they send these two faithful men. So that there's accountability, there's transparency, there's integrity. But it's not a cold integrity We're sending our heart. We're sending our very best. We're aiming at what is honorable. We are doing this out of love. Love is not an excuse for being unethical or shady in your practices. But neither is simply having good procedures and good structures a substitute for truly loving. It's the truth in love. It's love and truth. It's integrity and sincerity. This is how God how God wants us to function as Christians. It's the standards given over and over again from the command to speak the truth in love. to the command to worship in spirit and in truth, to this command to give generously from the heart and yet with integrity, transparency, and accountability. We are supposed to walk that way. We're supposed to walk according to a standard that is above reproach, but from the heart with loving sincerity. I pray that the Lord would make us that kind of people that we would give in that way, that we would pour out because Christ poured himself out for us. Let's pray Father, thank you for generously giving us your one and only Son. Lord Jesus, thank you for generously pouring out your life for our salvation. O Lord God, help us to give, even as we have freely been given. Help us to share all things with those who are in need. Not reluctantly. But as we'll see in the next chapter, you love a cheerful giver. So help us to be that way in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Second Corinthians chapter eight. I hope that was a blessing to you. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.