Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church I hope that you are doing well on this day, our 1038th day together in the Word of God. I hope that you are Uh just having a blessed day already. I hope that this time in God's Word will be even more of a blessing to you as we dig into 2 Corinthians chapter 12, a very well-known passage about Paul's thorn in the flesh. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, for the gift that it is to us, for the challenge that it brings us. as well as for the light that it sheds on our lives. Show us your will. Help us to walk in your ways. Help us to see and love and follow Jesus. We pray this in his name. Amen All right, so 1 Corinthians, or 2 Corinthians chapter 12. I must go on boasting, though there is nothing to be gained by it. I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord. I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows. And I know that this man was caught up into paradise, whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know, God knows. And he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast except of my weaknesses, though if I should wish to boast, I would not be a fool, for I would be speaking the truth But I refrain from it, so that no one may think more of me than he hears sees in me or hears from me. So to keep me from becoming conceited, because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations A thorn was given to me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities, for when I am weak, then I am strong. I have been a fool. You forced me to it, for I ought to have been commended by you. For I was not at all inferior to these super apostles, even though I am nothing. The signs of a true apostle were performed among you with utmost patience, with signs and wonders and mighty works. For in what were you less favored than the rest of the churches, except That I myself did not burden you. Forgive me this wrong. Here for the third time I am ready to come to you. And I will not be a burden, for I seek not what is yours, but you. For children are not obligated to save up for their parents, but parents for their children I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I love you more, am I to be loved less? But granting that I myself did not burden you, I was crafty, you say, and got the better of you by deceit. Did I take advantage of you through any of those whom I sent to you? I urged Titus to go, and sent the brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not act in the same spirit? Did we not take the same steps? Have you been thinking all along that we have been defending ourselves to you? It is in the sight of God that we have been speaking in Christ, and all for your upbuilding, beloved. For I fear that perhaps when I come I may not find you as I wish, and that you may not find me as you wish That perhaps there may be quarreling, jealousy, anger, hostility, slander, gossip, conceit, and disorder. I fear that when I come again, God may humble me before you And I may have to mourn over many of those who sinned earlier and have not repented of the impurity, sexual immorality, and sensuality that they have practiced That is 2 Corinthians chapter 12 in the ESV as always. So the first part of this chapter is the very famous part. of Paul's thorn in the flesh. And I want to address here like responsible and irresponsible ways. of handling God's Word and how sometimes when we focus our attention on questions that the text does not answer for us, we miss what the text actually does say. So most Christians who know the Bible at all know something about Paul's thorn in the flesh. They know that Paul had a thorn in the flesh. They know that he asked God to remove it. They know that he didn't. And then the speculation usually becomes What was Paul's thorn in the flesh? We know from other writings of the Apostle Paul that he suffered from failing eyesight. that he had to rely on an emanuensis. An emanuensis is like a secretary, scribe, um ghost writer, someone you you dictate a letter to and they write it out. and they may, you know, make some modifications. They're sort of a co-author. Paul lists co-authors in his letters. The letters to Corinth have co-authors. And we believe that that's part of that is because of his failing eyesight. He testifies that the Philippians would have been willing to gouge out their eyes and give them to him. If that would have helped. And then when he does sign off on his letters, he writes with very large letters. All of this points to failing eyesight by the Apostle Paul. And so some people have said, oh, the thorn in the flesh, we know what that is. It's his failing eyesight. Well, just because we know he had a thorn in the flesh, and we know that he had failing eyesight, doesn't mean that the thorn in the flesh is failing eyesight. The fact is, we don't know what the thorn in the flesh is because Paul doesn't tell us. And God, in his word, has not seen fit to reveal to us what the thorn in the flesh is. It is possible that it could be his eyesight, but we don't know. To me, personally, it seems unlikely. that it would be failing eyesight because he refers to this as a messenger of Satan to harass me to keep me from becoming conceited. This seems like some sort of spiritual attack Not just a sort of advanced presbyopia, you know, old eyes, um which Paul likely would have been suffering from when they didn't have reading glasses as readily available then. as we do today. So maybe, maybe not. The point is we don't know. But by asking all these questions about what is Paul store in the flesh, We often miss something important that Paul says here that is pretty clear. So, first of all, He talks in the third person about a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven, whether in the body or out of the body. not know, God knows. The question is, well, is Paul talking about himself or is he talking about somebody else? If he's really talking about himself, why is he using the third person? Well, later, it seems to be clear, starting in verse 5, that Paul is in fact talking about himself because he shifts from verse 5 to 6 On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast except of my weaknesses, though if I should wish to boast, I would not be a fool, for I would be speaking But I refrain from it so that no one may think of me more than he sees in me or hears from me, so to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh. So it's Paul who received surpassingly great revelations. He doesn't even want to claim them as his own. And he gives a good reason. He doesn't even want to claim them as his own because he doesn't want anyone to think more of him than what they themselves see in him or hear from him. That's point of information one. Paul deliberately does not claim these revelations as being his own. He puts it in the third person. He doesn't claim them as being his own because he doesn't want anyone to think more of him than what they themselves hear from him as he preaches or what they themselves see God do through him in the signs of an apostle that he talks about later. That's one thing. The other thing he says is in verse 4. The things that were seen in the third heavens, he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter. That's pretty strong language. Revelations of the third heaven. The third heaven is the throne room of God. The first heaven is the sky. The second heaven is the heavens where the heavenly bodies are. space we call it. The third heaven is the dwelling place of God. To talk about that is cannot be told. and may not be uttered. I'm lingering on these sections because this is in the Bible, this is very clearly in the Bible. And yet every few years, we seem to get a Christian best-selling book about someone's trip to heaven. Whether it's Ninety Minutes in Heaven by Don Green or uh the little boy who said he died and went to heaven and then later turned out he was lying. There's been various books like this over the years. It's as bad as the books that try to name the date when Jesus is going to return, which we seem to get one of those every 20 years or so. If the Bible says that these things cannot be told, which man may not utter, No Christian publishing company should be willing to publish such a book. No Bible-knowledgeable Christian should buy such a book. And those people who wrote those books, they go on talk shows, they give speaking tours, they're invited to speak at churches, and they're boasting in what they've seen. And they they really they really do want people to think more of them than what just their plain ordinary ministry would give people cause to think. It's forbidden. So all of those books just shouldn't even exist. I put those kind of you know, trip to heaven books, trying to name the date when Jesus is coming books, and hidden Bible code books. or to me the three lowest levels of garbage books published by uh Christian publishing companies and sold and bought by Christians. There's no hidden secret codes in the Bible where if you count every fifth Hebrew letter garbage nonsense. It really bothers me because people are twisting scripture. in the one case of the Bible codes, and in the case of predicting the date of the second coming of Christ or writing best-selling books about heaven trips, they're doing things that the Bible expressly forbids. And we just we shouldn't be doing that. God gave us his word. And how dare we deliberately defy his word to make money? Which is really why they're doing it there, I said. it. Now, back to Paul. He has the thorn of the flesh. And he has the thorn in the flesh to keep him from becoming conceited. He doesn't like this sworn in the flesh, this messenger from Satan to harass me. If the Apostle Paul was an apostle, went through all the hardships that we read about several days ago. uh all the things shipwrecks and beatings. And he has a messenger of Satan to harass him and he pleads with the Lord three times. For it to be removed. And God says no. This had to be something pretty bad, pretty troubling, pretty distressing. And yet God says no. God does not answer every believer's prayer for relief. Let that sink in for a minute. God does not answer every believer's prayer for relief. This is a direct confrontation of the fourth kind of low-level garbage book that I don't like, I think God doesn't like in the Christian world, and that is Prosperity Gospel. Anything written by Joel Osteen or Creflo Dollar or whatever. Anybody who's like, you've got power to have What you want from God, if you just have enough courage and faith to proclaim it and name it, I am sure the Apostle Paul wanted to be rid of this thorn in the flesh. God said no. In fact, God said, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Not my power is made perfect in health and wealth and prosperity. My power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ May dwell in me, may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ I am content. I am content. with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, calamities, for when I am weak, then I am strong If people would just read the Bible and believe the Bible, we could get rid of 90% of the false teaching that plagues the church For you and me, we need to receive this as whatever thorn in the flesh we're dealing with. You probably have something in your life that you would be very glad if the Lord did. I have things in my life that I would be very glad if the Lord took them away. Struggles with family members, struggles with church life, struggles with the world and the culture. Struggles with my own heart at times. But the Lord sometimes says, no. I'm going to leave you to struggle with that. I'm going to leave you to struggle with the weaknesses, with the insults, with the hardships, with the persecutions, with the calamities. Because when you are weak, then you are strong in the power of Christ and not your own strength. Because you see, it really is all about how surpassingly great and surpassingly strong Christ is And not us. It's not about the power of I am and me saying, I am strong, I am healthy, I am that's Garbage. Absolutely unbiblical. God dishonoring Christ-denying garbage. Could I say anything stronger than that? I could, but When I am weak, then I am strong But you know our generation, not the first generation, to deal with false teachers. And one of the things that I would love the Lord to remove from his church, that he is pleased not to remove from his church, is false teachers. I would love for the Lord to remove, expose all of the people who are peddling books, peddlers of the Word of God, as Paul says in other of his writings. Or earlier in earlier in 2 Corinthians, actually, we're not peddlers of the Word of God. Heaven vision claimers. Idol makers, code, creators, prosperity preachers. I would love for them all to be removed From the church. But God has said no. And it's not a new thing. Because by the testing, by the trying, by the poking and prodding that these false teachers bring into the church, the church is tested What do we believe? Who are we going to depend upon? Where are we going to look for truth? Who are we going to follow? The superapostles were the ones who came along in Paul's day. We've talked about them before. They were trying to impress people with their rhetorical gifts. Paul didn't have those rhetorical gifts. So he thought the Corinthians thought he was inferior. But he's not inferior because while he did not display impressive Greek rhetoric, which he probably could have, by the way, one of the things that Bible scholars have noted is that the Apostle Paul in his letters in 1st and 2 Corinthians actually uses many of the skilled Greek rhetorical devices that he refrained from using in person. As a way of showing them, I know how to play that game too. I deliberately chose not to. It's what he says at the beginning of 1 Corinthians. I deliberately chose to know nothing among you but Christ and him crucified. And so he shows that he actually does understand the ways to do classical rhetoric. But he's not going to rely on classical rhetoric. So he's coming. He has done the signs of an apostle. He has done signs and wonders and mighty works. He has preached the gospel. He didn't accept support from them. That was one of the ways he was being badmouthed. The Apostle Paul is such a bad preacher that he can't even get enough money from the churches he's preaching to to support himself. He could have. He didn't want to put that burden on the young Corinthian church. He's going to come to them again. He's still not going to put that burden on the young Corinthian church. I love verse 15. I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. That's kind of a A mantra of mine, actually. I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls, because I think that's the call of the gospel. The call to the gospel minister is not to be self-serving accumulating fame, riches, honor, being self-indulgent, lazy. The call of the of the gospel ministers to pour himself out. In love to build up the church. And it's not when when gospel ministers are put into a position of needing to fend their ministry It's not defending themselves against other people. It's defending the gospel of Jesus Christ in the sight of God. In the sight of God, we have been speaking in Christ and all for your upbuilding, beloved. That's another mantra. In the sight of God, I speak in Christ for the upbuilding of the church. And that's the ministry. Spend and be spent. In the sight of God, speak in Christ. For the sake of God's people, for love for God's people, love God's people more, build God's people up more. And we as the church need to receive that We need to thank God for it. We need to pray for those who are teaching and preaching to us. And we need to hold them accountable to be faithful to God's Word. I hope every member at Forest Hill will hold me accountable to being faithful to God's Word. I don't want to stray by one letter out of line with God's Word. But then receive it, because it is God's word, not the word of a man. It's his word that tells us the truth. We need to walk in it. Because he's worthy of that honor, and it is good for us. It's for our own upbuilding to receive God's word and walk in it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are unfailingly good in your love for your people, in your provision for our needs. We love you because you have first loved us. And we walk by faith because you've given us the faith to walk with you. When we are weak, you are strong. And when we boast, let us boast only of Christ, who alone is our strength and our righteousness and our salvation. It is in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, that was Second Corinthians chapter twelve. Hope that was a blessing to you and a challenge. We're going to get back to the minor prophets tomorrow. We're beginning the prophet Amos. So join me tomorrow for Amos chapter one and have a blessed day in the Lord