Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 999th Day together in the Word of God, day 999, and we are in 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your grace to us What a blessing it is to spend day after day in your word learning from you and growing in you. Would you be our teacher today, here in 2 Corinthians? Write these words in our hearts. Help us to grow in Christ, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Second Corinthians chapter two. For I made up my mind not to make another painful visit to you For if I cause you pain, who is there to make me glad but the one whom I have pained? And I wrote as I did, so that when I came I might not suffer pain from those who should have made me rejoice For I felt sure of all of you that my joy would be the joy of you all. For I wrote to you out of much affliction and in anguish of heart, and with many tears. Not to cause you pain, but to let you know the abundant love I have for you. Now, if anyone has caused pain, he has caused it not to me. but in some measure, not to put it too severely, to all of you. For such a one, this punishment by the majority is enough. So you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him Or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow, so I beg you to reaffirm your love for him, for this is why I wrote, that I might test you. and know whether you are obedient in everything. Anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. Indeed, what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ. so that we would not be outwitted by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his designs. When I came to Troas to preach the gospel of Christ, even though a door was opened for me in the Lord, my spirit was not at rest Because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I took leave of them and went on to Macedonia. But thanks be to God God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal procession, and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of Him everywhere For we are the aroma of Christ to God, among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. To one, a fragrance from death to death. To the other, a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things? For we are not, like so many, peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God, in the sight of God, we speak in Christ. 2 Corinthians 2. Love the Apostle Paul. His heart for the people of God is so great. So We're picking up really mid-thought here, and that Paul's talking about his plans to come and visit them again. And how he had planned to come but he didn't come because he didn't want to make another painful visit. Remember he said I don't make my plans as yes, yes and no no but it's always yes, I'm going to do what I intend to do but the timing of it had to be right because Apparently the most recent visit he had made, which was probably after he wrote 1 Corinthians and before he wrote 2 Corinthians, the most recent visit he made had been a painful one. Um because he had to deal with some discipline in the church. We don't know for sure what the church discipline issue was, but we do know from 1 Corinthians that there was a man in the church who was sleeping with his stepmother, his father's wife. That's pretty bad. And something not even done among Gentiles, but it was openly tolerated in the church. And the Apostle Paul had written in First Corinthians and it said you need to expel the immoral brotherhood. And then apparently they didn't act on that super quickly. So he visited them and had a painful visit. And then they did act. So now he is able to come to them with a much better frame of mind, knowing that they have been obedient to what God had required of them. In fact They had been obedient to the point where now the danger is that this brother who was expelled, who is repentant, is going to be lost if they don't forgive him. You see, grievous sin should not be tolerated. But also can be forgiven in Christ and should be forgiven in Christ. Our world makes a problem with grievous sin Our world doesn't have very many categories of sin left, but there are a few things like, you know, you you probably know what they are if you pay attention to the news. There's a few things, a few taboo issues in our culture that are just unacceptable. And so what it is, what our culture does, is it either minimizes grievous sin and says it's not sin at all, it's no big deal, in fact it's something to be celebrated, or they say that is really bad, we're against that, in which case you get canceled, you get expelled, you get nullified because you've committed that sort of unpardonable sin. The gospel doesn't do any either one of those things. The gospel doesn't sweep sin under the rug, doesn't call it not sin, doesn't celebrate that which is actually terrible, but it also doesn't withhold forgiveness and reconciliation to those who are repentant. So here's a brother who's done something. We don't know for sure that this is the same guy as in 1 Corinthians who was sleeping with his stepmother, but it's someone who was in a bad church discipline situation, who was in grievous sin. And they need to be forgiven. And it's very important, it's so important that they be forgiven because otherwise Satan would outwit them. Satan is a is a serpent, right? Yesterday we were in uh Ezekiel uh 32 and we saw that Pharaoh was likened to a serpent. Well, likened to a serpent means You're like Satan. You're slippery, you're deceitful, you're conniving, you're manipulative. And Satan is always trying to outwit the church. Sometimes he succeeds because the church doesn't listen to Jesus and doesn't follow our good shepherd. So Paul doesn't want to see that happen here. And so he wants there to be forgiveness and restoration. Thinking about this sin and forgiveness and discipline and reconciliation, it reminds Paul of Of basically his entire ministry life and what it is that he's been called to do. And that is, he's been called by God in Christ. to be part of this triumphal procession to spread the fragrance of the knowledge of Him everywhere Now this is an image drawn from Roman culture, the triumphal procession. It would be after a great general wins a great victory over a foreign power. And we take the the the great general would would march back to Rome to celebrate the victory. And they would have this big parade called a triumph. And they would have all sorts of things that were parading after them, some of the some of the treasure that was captured and some of the you know, slaves that were made and and then usually at the very end were the conquered opponents and they're like sentenced to die because they're Paul's drawing on this triumphal procession image, and he says, part of what we're doing is to spread the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere, because one of the things that would be done is incense would be burned. during these triumphs, and it would spread this fragrance of, oh, here is the conquering king, the conquering general. Now, to those who are on the side of the conqueror, that brings joy. That brings delight. That brings celebration. To those who have been conquered and who are the enemies of that hero, it brings death. You know, they're on They're under death and they've been defeated. So Paul says, wherever I've gone, the most important thing that God's given me to do is to spread the fragrance of Christ, the triumphant king. He's won the ultimate triumph over sin and death, over death and hell, forever. And so we spread the good news of this triumph. Now, for people who know they're sinners and who need to be forgiven and who want to be reconciled to God, this is the greatest news. This is the fragrance from life to life. They say, oh, here is eternal life, here is salvation, yes. To those who hate Jesus, to those who don't want God in their lives, to those who don't think they need to be forgiven, to those who just want to be left alone, that's like no Jesus is the Son of God and he has conquered sin and death, and that's terrible news. The same exact good news of the gospel, the same exact proclamation of the triumph of Christ is the aroma of life. To some, and a fragrance of death to others. And he says, who is sufficient for these things? If that is indeed the calling of a gospel minister. Verse 17 of 2 Corinthians 2 is very important to all ministers of the gospel. Who is sufficient for them? these things? The answer is nobody. No human being is sufficient to be the aroma of Christ. That is a high and holy calling. It must be given you by God, and you have to be faithful to it. And so he says, we are not like so many peddlers of God's word. They're not salesmen. They're not showmen. They're not offering somebody something to be impressed with them personally. We're not peddlers of God's word. But as men of society, Sincerity as commissioned by God in the sight of God, we speak in Christ. If a man is called to the gospel ministry, if a man is called to be a minister of Christ, He dare not take that call upon himself. He must be commissioned by God. And then he dare not shirk that or cheapen it. Because it is Christ whom we are proclaiming. It is the gospel that we are magnifying. And that is something that we do in the sight of God with Sincerity. That's my prayer for me. I don't want to play games. I don't want to try to sell people something. I don't want to try to get people to like me and think I'm great. I want to show people Jesus. And that that works itself out even in mundane things like how we handle church discipline within the church, to show the righteousness of Christ and the mercy of Christ It's Christ who's on display in the church. Not my own hurt feelings, which would make me shun someone for life. Not my own free-spirited, tolerant attitude, which might make me say, no big deal, but the the righteousness of Christ. And the mercies of Christ are on display in the church before a watching world. That's our calling. Let's pray Father, who is sufficient for these things? None of us. We cannot. But we've been called and commissioned by you. Some of us have been called and commissioned to be ministers of the gospel, to be to be ministers of the word. Thank you for that privilege and that honor and make me faithful to that calling. But all of us, Lord, have been called by you to be ambassadors for Christ, to spread the aroma of Christ in our words and our actions, to be the body of Christ in the church. And for the church to display what Christ is like to the world. Make us faithful to that calling at Forest Hill Church. at our various churches of the people who are gathered here for this. May you be glorified, may Christ be exalted, may your gospel be proclaimed in word and in deed, and may we be faithful. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Second Corinthians chapter two. Thanks for joining me for that. Tomorrow on day one thousand, we're going to go back to Ezekiel and pick up with Ezekiel 33. is a very appropriate chapter. Actually it follows very well after the end of 2 Corinthians 2. So I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.