Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Hope you're doing well this morning. It is our 1034th day together in God's Word. We're back to 2 Corinthians, picking up with chapter 11, as Paul's continuing to have to struggle against these false apostles. who have come in and who have slandered him, and the people within the church at Corinth that he started, that he pastored for the first year and a half, that he loved, who were questioning his authority and who were being led astray by Satan. So let's pray as we turn to this chapter in God's Word together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. It is breathed out by you, and it is profitable to us. So make it useful for your will in our lives today by writing this on our hearts and teaching us how to follow Jesus more faithfully. We pray in his name. Amen. 2 Corinthians chapter 11. I wish you would bear with me in a little foolishness. Do bear with me. For I feel a divine jealousy for you, since I betrothed you to one husband to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. But I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ. For if someone comes and proclaims another Jesus than the one we proclaimed, Or if you receive a different spirit from the one you received, or if you accept a different gospel from the one you accepted, you put up with it readily enough. Indeed, I consider that I am not in the least inferior to these superapostles. Even if I am unskilled in speaking, I am not so in knowledge. Indeed, in every way we have made plain, made this plain to you in all things. Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself, so that you might be exalted? Because I preached God's gospel to you free of charge. I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to serve you. And when I was with you and was in need, I did not burden anyone, for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied my need. So I refrained, and will refrain from burdening you in any way. As the truth of Christ is in me, this boasting of mine will not be silenced in the regions of Achaea. And why? Because I do not love you? God knows I do. And what I am doing, I will continue to do in order to undermine the claim of those who would like to claim that in their boasted mission they work on the same terms as we do, for such men are false apostles. deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ, and no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light So it is no surprise if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, their end will correspond to their deeds. I repeat, let no one think me foolish. But even if you do, accept me as a fool, so that I too may boast a little. What I am saying with this boastful confidence, I say, not as the Lord would, but as a fool, since many boast according to the flesh, I too will boast. For you gladly bear with fools, being wise yourselves. For you bear it if someone makes slaves of you, or devours you, or takes advantage of you, or puts on airs, or strikes you in the face. To my shame, I must say, we were too weak for that. But whatever anyone else dares to boast of I am speaking of as a fool. I also dare to boast of that. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they offspring of Abraham? So am I. Are they servants of Christ? I am a better one. I'm talking like a madman With far greater labors, far more imprisonments, with countless beatings, and often near death Five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes, less one. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked a night and a day I was adrift at sea on frequent journeys in danger from rivers, danger from robbers, danger from my own people. danger from Gentiles, danger in the city, danger in the wilderness, danger at sea, danger from false brothers, in toil and hardship, through many a sleepless night, in hunger and thirst, often without food In cold and exposure, and apart from the other things, there is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all the churches. Who is weak and I am not weak? Who is made to fall and I am not indignant if I must boast I will boast of the things that show my weakness. The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, He who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying. At Damascus, the governor under King Eratus was guarding the city of Damascus in order to seize me, but I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall and escaped his hands. Second Corinthians chapter eleven. Now this chapter can be very puzzling because we can wonder, like, what is Paul doing? He's he's saying how bad it is for the super apostles to be boasting and to be puffing themselves up, but then it seems like he engages in the same kind of boasting, even saying that he's foolish to do it. What is he actually doing here? Well, to get it clear, the opening of this chapter Makes it very clear that the issue for Paul is not ultimately whether the Corinthians respect him as an apostle, but whether they follow Christ. False apostles operate not by the Holy Spirit, but by a false spirit. And they don't preach the true Christ. They lead people astray into a false understanding and indeed after a false Christ. I'll give you a modern-day example. Prosperity Gospel preachers, those who preach that you can have your best life now by exercising the power of positive thinking and claiming your blessings and and naming your inheritance of being strong and healthy and wealthy and a child of the king and all this other kind of nonsense. It biblically is nonsense. It's a complete polar opposite of the way the apostles lived their lives. It's a complete polar opposite of the way Christianity has been faithfully handed down for generation after generation. Those people are not if the problem isn't that they sell more books or they have more viewers and so they're more popular. The problem is that they are preaching a false gospel, misrepresenting Christ and his kingdom, leading people astray from their loyalty to Christ. Paul planted this church, and he says, I betrothed you as a pure virgin to Christ, and you're being deceived by serpent language This self-centered boasting, this puffed up pride. You know, puffed up pride about your own gifts is satanic, ultimately. It's not the language of Jesus. Jesus was meek, humble, gentle, lowly in heart, a servant. He came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. Now, starting in chap in verse seven of chapter eleven, Paul says, other people are boasting And maybe I need to start boasting. He begins by saying W what charge do you have against me? What am I guilty of? The fact that I didn't charge you any money for my services? In Corinth, if you were a professional rhetorician, if you were a professional and skilled speaker, you were expected to charge money. So Paul says, I I didn't charge money. I I accepted support from other churches. He even says I robbed other churches. Of course he didn't really rob other churches. He's speaking with hyperbole. He's saying, I accepted support from other churches. I wasn't ministering to them at that time. But they supported me so that I could minister to you free of charge. Why? Because I love you. He says it the opposite way. Why? Because I do not love you? God knows I do. But then down in verse sixteen is really where he gets into if I may boast a little. And what's interesting is the kind of boasting that he engages in is very countercultural to what these uh Corinthian rhetoricians would have done, what these impressive Greek speaking uh public speakers would have done because he begins by talking about how Jewish he is and then he continues to talk about how persecuted he is Those are not two things that necessarily would have gone over all that well in Greek speaking success celebrating. Poised and Polished Corinth. He is a a Jew He's an offspring of Abraham. He's a servant of Christ. A better one. And in that he says, I'm talking like a madman. Because he doesn't really want to boast of being a better servant of Christ than anyone else. But the way he measures it, look at the way he measures it in verse 23 and 24, 25, 26. It is not by saying, I planted so many churches and saw so many converts come and I raised so much money. for this relief project. And I he's not he's not doing any of the kinds of boasting of tallies and trophies that would be normal. Rather, he talks about how beaten he's been How near death he's been, how rejected he's been, how in danger he's been Those are exactly the things that would have got him scorned by the prosperity preachers of his day, and that's really what was going on in Corinth. was a kind of early version of the prosperity gospel. But he says, I'm weak. Now when we come back to chapter 12, he's going to go even more into detail about why he boasts in his Weakness. But he's his boasting is an upside down boasting. Because the kingdom of Jesus is an upside down kind of kingdom, because our king's moment of greatest triumph is when he hung naked. and beaten and bloodied on a cross, crying out in agony. That was the moment of triumph. That was the moment of power. That was the moment of salvation. And so Paul is actually showing them Christ in his labors, in his suffering in his humiliation. And what could be more humbling than where he ends this chapter? What could be more humbling than being let down in a basket through a window in the wall? It's not a brave man who stands and fights his enemies. No, he's one who gets away by the grace of God, escaping, so that he might continue to serve Christ. There is a way of the kingdom of God, and it is not the way of the world. It doesn't make sense in the eyes of the world. It is not boastful, prideful, self-exulting. It is rather that which answers the call of Christ. If anyone would come after me, he must deny himself, take up his cross daily, and follow me. That's what the Apostle Paul's doing. That's what you and I are called to do. Will we answer the call? Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, you took up the cross and you bore our shame, our guilt, our suffering. You call us to follow you. Because if we belong to you, the world will reject us. But we need to live lives of humility, of gratitude, of dependence on you. Help us to walk in the path of our Savior. Imitating Him. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Well, thanks for joining me so much for 2 Corinthians chapter 11. I hope this chapter was a blessing to you as always, and I hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.