Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Lemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 996th day together. In the Word of God. We're starting a new book of the Bible today. 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians chapter 1. This is a wonderful book. I had the opportunity to preach through this book a few years ago. at Forest Hill and um such a challenging, such a gospel saturated book. It really gives us the best insight into how the Apostle Paul viewed his ministry and his calling. completely through the lens of the gospel and his identity is completely absorbed in Jesus Christ. And um so it's wonderful. We'll be in this for a little while because of course we do these New Testament ones about every three days or so. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into this wonderful book together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Every part of your word is wonderful. It's a gift from you, a treasure. challenges us, helps us, equips us. Father, I pray that you would be teaching us through 2 Corinthians today. That we might grow in wisdom and understanding, that we might grow in faith and faithfulness. In Jesus' name. Amen. 2 Corinthians chapter 1. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy, our brother. To the Church of God that is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaea. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our afflictions so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. For, as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too. If we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation, and if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer. Our hope for you is unshaken, for we know that as you share in our sufferings, you will also share in our comfort. For we do not want you to be unaware, brothers, of the affliction we experienced in Asia. For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself. Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death But that was to make us rely not on ourselves, but on God who raises the dead. He delivered us from such a deadly peril, and he will deliver us. On him we have set our hope that he will deliver us again. You also must help us by prayer, so that many will give thanks on our behalf for the blessing granted us through the prayers of many. For our boast is this, the testimony of our conscience that we behaved in the world with simplicity and godly sincerity, not by earthly wisdom, but by the grace of God, and supremely so toward you. For we are not writing to you anything other than what you read and understand. And I hope you will fully understand, just as you did partially understand us, that on the day of our Lord Jesus you will boast of us, as we will boast of you Because I was sure of this, I wanted to come to you first so that you might have a second experience of grace. I wanted to visit you on my way to Macedonia. And come back to you from Macedonia and have you send me on my way to Judea. Was I vacillating when I wanted to do this? Do I make my plans according to the flesh saying yes, yes, and no, no at the same time? As surely as God is faithful, our word to you has not been yes and no. For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, whom we proclaimed among you, Sylvanus and Timothy and I, was not yes and no, but in him it is always yes. For all the promises of God find their yes in him. That is why it is through him that we utter our amen to God for his glory. And it is God who establishes us with you in Christ and has anointed us and who has also put his seal on us and given us his spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. But I call God to witness against me It was to spare you that I refrained from coming again to Corinth. Not that we lord it over your faith, but we work with you for your joy. For you stand firm in your faith. What I love about 2 Corinthians and the Apostle Paul is that this letter is so deeply personal. And so richly theological. And the reason we usually separate those things. We we when I was in seminary, for example, I took a class called practical theology, and that class was basically about growth in holiness and spiritual growth and your personal sanctification. And then I also took Systematic theology. And systematic theology is where we dug into the deep connected truths that are found throughout Scripture about who God is, about who Christ is. And there wasn't really a disconnection between these two things because the seminar I went to was really excellent about the Christian life. uh practical theology class being richly theological and also the theology being deeply practical. But the fact that we list those things separately in seminary uh courses reflects this Western mindset, I think, that we put these things in a separate category. There's the way I think about theological truths, and then there's the way I live my life, and those are like two different things. For the Apostle Paul those were never, ever two different things. Paul was who he was in Christ. And he was deeply personally connected to the Corinthians because he was in Christ and they were in Christ. He was their boasting in Christ, and they were his boasting in Christ, because he had been used by Christ to bring them to the Lord, and they had received Christ from him. And so they were knit together in love. through the union that they have with Christ. For Paul, the union with Christ, his identity with Christ, being in Christ is all that he is. And it's the whole of his ministry. It's the whole of his life. It's the whole of his comfort and the whole of his hope. And that's what I want too. That's what I want in my life. I don't want to have these professional responsibilities and these technical theological things that I do and then a relationship with Jesus. It's a r I want it all to be Jesus. And Jesus to be all in all. And that's what we get from the Apostle Paul is a vision for how this works itself out in life. First of all, he praises God. Notice he calls him the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. Paul's been through some hard things. He's going to share his heart with the Corinthians about some of the hard things he's been through. Within Corinth, there were a number of people who had come through after the Apostle Paul had left. Paul's been out of Corinth for several years at this point. And there were people who came in after Paul left and who said the really important thing is to be an eloquent speaker. The really important thing is to have impressive displays of wisdom that put people in their place. The really important thing is to be sophisticated. and articulate and skilled in rhetoric. And Paul said, I just preach Jesus, that's what he said in 1 Corinthians. I came to you and I preached Christ and him crucified. I wasn't trying to be skillful in wisdom. I was trying to be humble and dependent upon the Spirit. Some people use the sufferings of Paul as an argument against His apostolic authority. Well, he can't really be an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's he's so weak and he's so frail and he's been through so much suffering. He must be a guy that God doesn't really like that much. And Paul says, Oh, far from it. The Father of mercies is the God of all comfort, and He comforts us in all of our afflictions so that we can comfort those who are in any affliction with the affliction with the comfort that we ourselves have been comforted by God. In other words, God puts us through affliction and then brings us all comfort so that we can take that comfort we've received in affliction and go to other people who are being afflicted and share that. as well. And this is nothing less than that for at the beginning of verse five. For as we share in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too. You see, Christ was afflicted. He was mocked, he was ridiculed, he was beaten, he was forsaken, and he had resurrection power that overcame death. And he shares with us, as we identify with him in his sufferings, he shares with us his resurrection power that overcomes the suffering with a comfort that nothing in this world can ever Of touch. And we who are called to belong to Jesus Christ are also called to belong to one another because we are members together of the same body and we minister comfort to one another. Paul says, whenever we're afflicted, we know it's for your comfort and salvation because they're carrying the cross of Christ. And following Jesus. And it's for the comfort and salvation of God's people. And whenever we're comforted, it's for your comfort so that we can share it with you. You see, this union with Christ and his people is the heart of everything. Paul. He says, our affliction, I'm not hiding it. I'm not ashamed of it. I'm not running away from it. In fact, I want to tell you our affliction was so bad that we were utterly burdened beyond our strength, so much so that we despaired of life itself. Some people tritly say, based on a misunderstanding of something Paul says later in 2 Corinthians chapter 10 that we'll look at. They say wrongly, God will never give you more than you can handle. That's not true. God will not tempt you beyond what you are able to endure, but will with the temptation provide you a way of escape. So that you may bear up under it. There's that way of escape. And but it's not true that God will never give you more than you can handle. That's just not in the Bible. There's no Bible verse that says God will never give you more than you can handle. In fact, Paul here says the opposite of that. We were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself. We felt that we had received the sentence of death. Why? Why would God do that to his apostle? He tells us why. It was to make us rely not on ourselves, but on God who raises the dead. I remember at one point, outside of Lystra, Paul was actually stoned to death. He was stoned and left for dead. And when the believers came and prayed, he was raised up. I believe he died and rose again there by the power of God's grace. Paul carried that. That was in Asia. That's probably what he's referring to here. God delivers God gives us more than we can handle, so we rely on Him. And sometimes He even brings us under the sentence of death so He can raise us from the dead. Sometimes when all hope seems lost. When there looks to be nothing we can do about it, no other way that we can get through, God comes to the rescue And we set our hope on him, that he's delivered us and he will deliver us again, and ultimately we'll be delivered when this life is over and we are face to face with the Lord. And here's the wonderful thing about it, because of our union with Christ and our union with one another, we help each other by prayer Prayer really matters because God has joined us to Christ and has joined us to one another so that our prayers are used by God to bring us Bring comfort and deliverance to one another. Paul then talks about a seemingly small and insignificant thing, and that is the way that he made his plans and the way that he carried out his plans. But there's nothing small and seemingly insignificant for the Apostle Paul. He says, I had planned to come to you because I wanted to give you grace. I wanted to give you grace on the way to Macedonia and grace on the way back from Macedonia. Verse 16 says. But I couldn't do it. I couldn't do it. And we'll see why. He wasn't able to visit them because there was a really painful disciplinary issue that he would have had to deal with. He was trying to give them time. to resolve it so that he didn't have to come harshly, but he could come lovingly. And so he's giving them time And some people use this and said, oh, Paul's a vacillator. He says he's coming, then he doesn't come. He says he's not going to come, then he shows up. He just says yes, yes, no, no, at the same time. And he says, no. God is faithful. And we belong to Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ is not yes and no, but it's always yes. And that's why we always mean what we say. And then he brings in one of the most profound and glorious verses in all the New Testament, here in 2 Corinthians 1. 20. And it's in the context of discussing his travel plans. Paul immediately goes from something seemingly trivial, his travel schedule, to the heart of the meaning of the gospel being fulfilled in Christ. Because to him, the deeply theological and the personal are inseparable because he is in Christ. So he says, we don't make uh plans according to the flesh. We don't say yes, yes, and no, no, because we're in Jesus Christ. And the Jesus Christ we proclaim is not yes and no, but always yes. And here's the great verse. For all the promises of God find their yes in Him. That is why it is through Him that we utter our Amen to God for his glory. Do you get what he's saying here? Every promise God has ever made, promises of a homeland, promises of offspring. Promises of adoption. Promises of forgiveness. Promises of resurrection. All of these promises find their yes in Christ Christ is the fulfillment of every promise of God. Some people think there's one set of promises that's made for ethnic Jewish people. and a different set of promises that's made for Christians, and that ethnic Jewish people can get their promise without belonging to Christ. No, that's not how that works. Christ is the seed of Abraham. He is the son of David. He is the fulfillment of the promise. He's the word of God made flesh. He's the promise of God in human form. All the promises of God all find their yes in him. In Christ we have all the promises of God, and we say Amen to God for his glory. Apart from Christ we have none of the promises of God. And it's God who establishes us with you in Christ and has anointed us. So again, Paul comes back to I'm in Christ. And I'm in you and you're in me. We're with you in Christ. You're with me in Christ. The sign of this is that we have the Holy Spirit who lives in our hearts as a guarantee. He lives in our hearts as a guarantee, and so your faith, our faith, brings mutual joy, mutual encouragement, because we belong together to Christ. Christ. I wonder how different life would look, how different our plans would look, how different our prayer lives would look if we thought the same way The Apostle Paul. Who I am is in Christ. My fellow believers, my brothers and sisters in Christ, they are one with me, and I am one with them because we are both one with Christ. Whatever comfort I receive, I extend to them for their comfort. Whatever comfort they receive, they extend to me for my comfort. I pray for them, they pray for me I keep my promises, they keep their promises, because God has kept his promises in Christ. What a glorious way to live completely caught up in who Jesus is for us. us together as his people. Let's live that way. Let's pray for God to give us the grace to think and live that way. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you that we have everything we need in Christ. Nothing has been left out. All the promises are yes in Him. We thank you for our Savior. We ask that we would live as those who are in Christ, that we would walk. And relate and love and hope and plan and suffer and be comforted and pray as those who belong to Christ, who are in Christ, and Christ is in us by the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit. We thank you for this undying hope, for this transformative identity. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, that's the beginning of 2 Corinthians. It's going to be a great ride through this book together. Tomorrow we go back to Ezekiel. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.