Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forestville Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you. It's day 10-20 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we're in 2 Corinthians chapter 7. Let's pray Heavenly Father, you are our God, faithful. You are our Father, good to us. You love us more than we could begin to know or understand. You are faithful in all of your ways. Speak to us today through this chapter of your word Write 2 Corinthians seven on our hearts. Help us to see Jesus. Help us to follow after him. Grow us by your grace and for your glory today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Second Corinthians chapter seven, since we have these promises, beloved Let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God. Make room in your hearts for us. We have wronged no one. We have corrupted no one. We have taken advantage of no one. I do not say this to condemn you, for I said before that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together I am acting with great boldness toward you. I have great pride in you. I am filled with comfort. In all our affliction, I am overflowing with joy For even when we came into Macedonia, our bodies had no rest, but we were afflicted at every turn, fighting without, and fear within, but God. who comforts the downcast, comforted us by the coming of Titus, and not only by his coming, but also by the comfort with which he was comforted by you, as he told us of your longing. Your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced still more, for even if I made you grieve by my letter, I do not grieve regret it, though I did regret it, for I see that my letter grieved you, though only for a while. As it is, I rejoice, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting, for you felt a godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret. Whereas worldly grief produces death. For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what Punishment at every point. You have proved yourselves innocent in the matter. So although I wrote to you It was not for the sake of the one who did the wrong, nor for the sake of the one who suffered the wrong, but in order that your earnestness for us might be revealed to you in the sight of God. God. Therefore we are comforted. And besides our own comfort, we rejoiced still more at the coming, at the joy of Titus Because his spirit has been refreshed by you all. For whatever boasts I made to him about you, I was not put to shame But just as everything we said to you was true, so also our boasting before Titus has proved true And his affliction and his affection for you is even greater, as he remembers the obedience of you all, how you received him with fear and trembling. I rejoice. Because I have complete confidence in you. Second Corinthians chapter seven. Well We see here the gospel heart of the Apostle Paul. First of all, this great principle that we see in 2 Corinthians 7:1. And that is, it really is wrapping up the do not be unequally yoked section from the end of chapter six But he's talking about promises. What are the promises? Well, who are we in Christ? What have we been given in Christ, and what have we been promised in Christ? We've actually been seeing pictures of this in Ezekiel in the vision of the temple that's being fulfilled in the church God makes his dwelling among us and he will make his dwelling among us. We are the temple of the living God. We are the temple of the living God. Verse 16. God is with us as our God. We are his people. We are his children. We are light. We are the light of the world in Jesus. We are children of light, no longer children of darkness. God is our Father. We are His sons and daughters. Since we have these promises, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of God. Body and spirit, bringing holiness into completion in the fear of God. The gospel promises of God should never, ever, ever be an excuse for us to be complacent. Or compromised, or lukewarm, or worldly, or self-satisfied, or smug, or any of those kinds of things. The goodness of God overflowing to us through Jesus Christ that has given us every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Should cause us to love God with such a zeal that we want to be clean of everything That defiles body and spirit. Everything that is an offense against God. Everything that is foul, unclean, unrighteous, un holy. We should want to be clean of it. Now, Paul had written to them earlier, and we have a 1 Corinthians. There may be a letter in between 1 and 2 Corinthians, this this letter that caused grief. Verse 8, for even if I made you grieve with my letter, I do not regret it. We don't know if that letter is 1 Corinthians that he's referring to. We do know that in 1 Corinthians he's confronting the Corinthian church because of their immorality, their tolerance of immorality, because there was a man in the church who was sleeping with his his He also confronted them over the fact that some of them were apparently taking one another to court to sue them publicly before Gentiles. two Christians engaged in a lawsuit battle in the public arena of court in in Corinth, which was very much a spectacle sort of thing. So Paul had to write some hard things. But we see his gospel heart because while he has a zeal for the holiness of God. While he has a zeal for the purity of the church, while he has a zeal for confronting wrongdoing and calling for repentance, he loves the Corinthian believers. He doesn't expect them to be perfect to earn his love. He's not cold-hearted and legalistic. He's not demanding in a in a sort of dictatorial way None of that. It's not legalistic. It's not harsh. It's not rigid and ironclad. It is a tender-hearted, warm-hearted. loving affection that wants the best for the Corinthian church and so wants them to be holy And he's seeing in them the repentance that's produced by godly grief. Worldly grief doesn't produce repentance. Worldly grief just produces death. You're just so sad and you're so upset and you get depressed and you just you just it doesn't do anything good. But godly grief says God is good and God is gracious and God has extended grace to me through Jesus Christ. Christ, and I want to be rid of the sin in my life. I want to be freed from it. I want to turn from it. And all of these things, this this earnestness. This indignation, this fear, this longing, this zeal, this punishment of the wrongdoing for the sake of God. For the sake of God. So Paul's gospel heart that led him to say difficult things that needed to be said, that might have caused grief, that apparently did cause grief. He immediately comes back with, I love you, and I want what's best for you, and I'm so glad that you responded. So I'm not really sad that you were grieved because it was a godly grief that led to repentance. And so love is neither harsh and dictatorial and demanding and legalistic, nor is it soft and squishy and standardless. It is truth Faithful, lovingly applied. And such love Such right God-honoring discipline within the church leads to benefits for for all sorts of people. Because of the Corinthians reaction, Paul is comforted, but also Titus is refreshed. And the gospel Is removed from the offense that had been against the Corinthian church because of these negative reports. And so it leads to joy and it leads to affection. And it leads to confidence. This is what it looks like to love one another in Christ. We speak the truth, we lovingly confront wrongdoing. We repent, we want to honor God, and we also want to build one another up. It's my prayer that at Forest Hill we would be that kind of church. That we would be the church where we don't run away from difficult conversations, but neither are we out to play gotcha and to backbite. And slander, but rather to love one another with an open-hearted warmth that truly wants what would be glorifying to God and what would be good for one another. I pray that God would do that work among us. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, you are the Lord of your church. You've saved us by your grace and for your glory. You've brought us together and knit our hearts together in love for one another. You are at work in us and among us. Build us up. Build us up to bring you glory. Build us up to love one another well. Build us up to follow after you. We pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's 2 Corinthians 7. We are going to go back to Ezekiel, picking up with Ezekiel 47 tomorrow. I hope you can join me for that, and as always, I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.