Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Hope you're doing well this morning as we're on our 1032nd day together in the Word of God. We come to 2 Corinthians chapter 10. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is a gift to us. Thank you for your faithfulness. Every chapter of your word has Is your word. It's full of truth and it is powerful and living and active. And we pray that your Holy Spirit would apply 2 Corinthians 10 to our hearts this morning as we look, as we think about. the truth and spiritual warfare and discernment. We pray that you would give us the mind of Christ, the Spirit of Christ, to live faithful to Christ. We pray in His name. Amen. 2 Corinthians chapter 10. I, Paul, myself entreat you, by the meekness and gentleness of Christ. I who am humble when face to face with you, but bold toward you when I am away. I beg of you that when I am present, I may not have to show boldness with such confidence as I count on showing against some who suspect us of walking according to the flesh. For though we walk in the flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh. but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God and take every thought captive to obey Christ being ready to punish every disobedience when your obedience is complete. Look at what is before your eyes If anyone is confident that he is Christ's, let him remind himself that just as he is in Christ, so also are we. For even if I boast a little too much of our authority, which the Lord gave for building you up and not for destroying you, I will not be ashamed. I do not want to appear to be frightening you with my letters, for they say his letters are weighty and strong, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech is of no account. Let such a person understand that what we say by letter, when absent, we do when present. Not that we dare to classify or or compare ourselves. with some of those who are commending themselves, but when they measure themselves by one another and compare themselves with one another, they are without understanding. But we will not boast beyond limits, but will boast only with regard to the area of influence God assigned to us, to reach even to you. For we are not overextending ourselves as though we did not reach you. For we were the first to come all the way to you with the gospel of Christ. We do not boast beyond limit in the labors of others, but our hope is that as your faith increases, Our area of influence among you may be greatly enlarged, so that we may preach the gospel in lands beyond you, without boasting of work already done in another's area of influence. Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord, for it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends. 2 Corinthians chapter 10, a very important chapter for understanding how to discern true and God-honoring leadership and ministry, how to think clearly with the mind of Christ, how to engage rightly in spiritual warfare. Satan is the deceiver. He's the father of lies. What he wants to do Is so deception and division within the people of God. He wants to distract us from focusing on the things that God wants us to focus on, which is the Word of God, the Holy Spirit. Spiritual maturity, the unity of the church, the mission of the church to take the gospel to the nations. He wants to get our eyes off of that and onto all sorts of other stuff. Personality comparisons subjective critical evaluations of the style of someone's speaking and how effective they are in their use of rhetoric, how impressive someone is. You know, today's translation of that might be how many social media followers do they have? How how popular is their ministry? Which conferences have they spoken at? How many best-selling books do they have? Those things do not matter. They are not the evaluation that matters in the eyes of God. When we think like the world, when we measure things like the world, we are waging war according to the flesh. We are engaging in the kingdom of God ministry. with a kingdom of men mindset. And we've already lost before we've taken step one. We need to not do that. It's not about any of the things the world values. It is about the truth. The knowledge of God taking every thought captive to obey Christ. Our minds must be in line with his mind, valuing the things that he values. Truth. Faithfulness, mission, gospel, unity, maturity the things that Christ is building into his church. There are, Jesus told the parable of the field that was sown with good seed by the master of the field. And then at night a thief came in and sowed tares among the wheat. And this requires discernment because the field is the world. And the good seed are the children of the kingdom. And the tares are the children of the evil one. And they're right side by side. They're growing together. They look on the outside like they're the same. But the substance The heart of the matter is what really matters. And so Paul is saying, I do have real authority. It is real authority given to me by Christ. I'm not boasting of authority that I haven't been given because you know that I'm the one who brought the gospel to you. No one else had come as far as you with the gospel. So the Apostle Paul left Antioch in Syria and went on his missionary journey through Crete and then Asia Minor, which is present-day Turkey. But then he crossed over into Macedonia, northern Greece, and then into Greece or Achaea, as it was known then, and came to Athens and then to Corinth. He brought the gospel to Corinth. No one else had brought the Gospel of Corinth. Corinth, he planted that church. He stayed for a year and a half or more to nurture that church, to train up early leaders for the church. He wrote to the church, at least one, probably two previous letters, and he's he's been back to visit again. He's getting ready to make his third visit. So he really has been used of God to plant and to grow this church. He's not boasting of something he hasn't done or something Christ hasn't given him. But notice the mindset that he has. It's always about what Christ has given for building up his church Not what the Apostle Paul has claimed for himself or has done by himself. One of the key distinguishing marks is if a person leads with their name or their credentials or their accomplishments rather than leading with Christ and his kingdom. Remember 1 Corinthians Paul said that when he was in Corinth planting the church, he was determined to know nothing among them but Christ and Him crucified And here, he says, we have not earthly weapons of warfare, but we have divine power to destroy strongholds, to destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God and to take every thought captive to obey Christ. It's always for Paul about Christ. It's his kingdom. He entreats them by the meekness and gentleness of Christ. He reminds them that just as they are in Christ, he is in Christ. He reminds him that the authority that he has, the Lord has given him for building up and not for destroying. The people in Corinth who are criticizing Paul are looking at things from a worldly perspective. They're saying, His letters are weighty and strong, but his bodily presence is weak, his speech is of no account. In other words, when Paul comes For what we know about him, he was kind of short and balding and um had failing eyesight and had a weak voice. So he wasn't one of these tall, handsome, booming voiced professional orators, like Corinth had many of. Professional orators were a big deal. in the ancient Roman Empire. They were kind of the celebrities of their day and they gave performances, uh exercises of rhetoric and and dialogue that would hold people spellbound with their impressive use of language. And that wasn't what Paul did. He didn't want to do that because he just wanted to be faithful with what God had given him. And that's why when he concludes this whole chapter He says, Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord, for it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends So, to be discerning, look for, listen to pastors and church leaders who are focused on Christ who are not blowing their own trumpet and boasting of themselves, who are not trying to impress with all sorts of you know, f fancy things who aren't putting on a show. There's a big difference between putting on a show and proclaiming the Word of God. Those are two different things. There are entertainment models of worship that are all about how loud and how big and how flashy and how impressive we can be. And then there is the model that the Apostle Paul took of Faithful preaching, teaching, disciple-making, humble, gentle, meek, truthful, accurate, and carrying the authority of Christ, not the wisdom and So look for those people, listen to those kind of people, and be that kind of person. Don't fall into the trap of saying, oh, if only. we had more money to get a better whatever. We could have more whatever. It's uh That is not what the Lord is looking for. So let's be focused on him, take every thought captive to obey Christ, being faithful and by God's grace fruitful for his glory and for his kingdom. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we need you. We need you to build your kingdom for the glory of your name. You alone are worthy. You alone are the sovereign God, the one savior of all the earth. It is your word, it is your kingdom, it is your spirit, it is your gospel that are most important. So help us to follow, to serve, to speak, to obey. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for 2nd Corinthians chapter 10. We're going to go back and wrap up Hosea tomorrow. I hope you can join me for that, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord. Gorgia.