Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. 2 Corinthians 6 is on tap for us today on day 1014. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It is rich, full of truth. It brings us comfort, it brings us challenge. It brings us Christ. So we pray that you would speak to us. Show us Jesus that we might walk by faith with him. We pray this in his name. Amen. 2 Corinthians chapter 6, working together with him then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain. For he says, In a favorable time I listened to you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you. Behold, now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. We put no obstacle in anyone's way so that no fault may be found with our ministry. But as servants of God We commend ourselves in every way by great endurance in afflictions, hardships, calamities, beatings, imprisonments, riots, labors. Sleepless nights, hunger by purity, knowledge, patience, kindness, the Holy Spirit, genuine love, by truthful speech and the power of God with the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and for the left. Through honor and dishonor, through slander and praise, we are treated as imposters and yet are true. As unknown and yet well known, as dying and behold we live, as punished and yet not killed as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing, as poor, yet making many rich, as having nothing, yet possessing everything. We have spoken freely to you, Corinthians. Our heart is wide open. You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted in your own affections. In return, I speak as to children. Widen your hearts also. Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? What accord has Christ with belial? Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever? What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God, as God said. I will make my dwelling among them, and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore go out from their midst and be separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing. Then I will welcome you. And I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty. That is 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Ah, this is a challenging call for us to really value what matters most. and to turn our backs on those things that hinder us from following after Christ and honoring him with our lives. Paul here is pleading with the Corinthians. He's saying, we have shown ourselves to be who we are, and that is men of God, servants of Christ. faithful and fruitful. There's no obstacle that we put in anyone's way. There's no fault that should be found with our ministry. But we've had a wide open heart toward you in love, but you've been closed off from us You have decided to judge us and to listen to rumors about us and to indulge in speculation about us because we suffer. You see, there was this kind of early prosperity gospel going around in Corinth where the really powerful, really dynamic, really in-demand speakers They would talk about their power, about their signs, about their great wisdom. Paul came along preaching Christ, Christ crucified. We get this in the early chapters of 1 Corinthians. He wasn't there to show off about how great he was. He wanted to draw people to Christ because it's the day of salvation. The grace of God in Jesus Christ is for the salvation of lost and hopeless sinners. to be reconciled to God through the blood of Jesus Christ, as we saw a couple of days ago when we were in chapter 5. It's a ministry of reconciliation. That's how salvation comes. It doesn't come by having great and impressive and dynamic speakers who can really hold an audience spellbound or do amazing things that that stun people. And who gets glory from that? The speaker. The preacher, the evangelist, so-called, he gets to show off his wisdom. He gets to show off his eloquence And people get to be impressed with human wisdom. But Paul says, no. We are servants of God. And we commend ourselves in the ways that matter most. And look at these ways that matter most. By great endurance. They endure in the face of hardship, as Christ did. In afflictions, hardships, calamities, beatings, imprisonments, riots. labors, sleepless nights, hunger. All these things here in verse four and five are things that the great and celebrity preachers and rhetoricians of the day, they would have never wanted to have anything to do with this. They would have said I am a super apostle. I am an impressive man of God, and I have power. Paul says, power of the gospel Children how well you suffer. Because we serve a suffering Savior. God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. That through him we might become the righteousness of God. That's where chapter 5 ended. The suffering of the cross is our salvation And Jesus says, whoever would come after me, let him take up his cross daily and follow me. The way of Christ is a way of suffering. It's inescapable if you're going to be faithful. So he says we commend ourselves by how much we've suffered, how much we've been beaten, how much we've been thrown in prison, how many times riots have risen up when we've preached the gospel. But not only that, by their character. Verses 6 and 7, by purity, knowledge, patience, kindness, the Holy Spirit, genuine love, truthful speech. Their character matters. Do they live what they preach? Do they know the truth? Are they patient and kind? Does the Holy Spirit work through them? To bring people to salvation and grow them in the Lord? Do they have genuine love for the saints? Do they speak the truth with the power of God? To change lives, not to impress people. The power of God is not to be used to impress people because you're oh so dynamic. The power of God is used to save people from sin and bring them to eternal life The weapons of righteousness for the right hand and the left. Christ is the righteousness of God, and in Christ we are the righteousness of God in him. That's what matters. Not rhetorical flourishes that leave people stunned at how brilliant an orator this person is. No It's not nice suits, it's not fancy cars, it's not impressive speaking ability, it's not a huge building or a glamorous ministry. or any sort of outward sign of prosperity. It is how well you endure suffering and how faithful you are to the gospel and how God works through you for righteousness. In whatever circumstance. Whether honor or dishonor, slander or praise, we're not living to please people. We're living to please God. Some people will slander us, some people will praise us. Some people will honor us, some people will dishonor us. That's as it as it is, because the gospel divides. You preach Christ and Christ crucified, those whom the Holy Spirit draws to faith in Jesus Christ will be thankful. They will say thank you for Giving me the words of life. Those who hate Christ, those who are not coming to Christ for salvation, will say, You're just making this up. You're just a liar. Or you're just Whatever. They're going to make up all sorts of slanderous accusations because they hate Jesus and they don't want to hear the word the gospel. And so he says we're treated as imposters, and yet we are true. Oh, you're a fraud, Paul. You don't know what you're doing. No, we are true. We're treated as unknown. Who's this guy? Paul was kind of short of stature and had a weak voice and wasn't very impressive to look at. Who is this guy? Well He's the Apostle Paul. And God's used him to plant more churches and build up more uh communities of faith than anybody else in the history of the church. He's dying, and yet he lives. He's punished, yet he's not killed. He's sorrowful, yet always rejoicing. He's poor yet making many rich. He has nothing, but he's possessing everything. By the outward standards that the world uses, the church of the Lord Jesus Christ and ministers of the gospel and faithful servants of Christ don't amount to anything. But in God's kingdom, under Christ's lordship, there is eternal benefit, there is salvation, there is spiritual growth, there is glory to God, and those are the things that Matter forever. They will matter long after all the houses have crumbled, all the bank accounts have emptied, all the wealth is gone. And so he's pleading with them. We've given our hearts to you. We're wide open. This is who we are. This is not a show. You should be as open hearted toward us as we have been toward you. And then a much misunderstood passage Here at the end of chapter 6. Most of the time, when you hear do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers, it's used as advice against a Christian marrying a non-Christian. Certainly that is true. If you're a Christian, if you're a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, you should not fall in love with and marry an unbeliever. You'll be unequally yoked, that's true. But that's actually not the primary problem that they were having in Corinth. The primary problem they were having in Corinth, which you can pick up in 1 Corinthians, is that people were going and eating the feasts in the idol temples. Why would they do that? Because if you were part of a guild, let's say you were a blacksmith, you were part of the blacksmith guild. Well the blacksmith guild met in the temple to the god of blacksmithing. If you were in a certain merchant guild, your merchant guild met for a feast in the temple of the god who was the patron. of your profession. So having a profession means being part of a professional guild means going to eat in the temple of the God who's associated with that professional guild. And the Corinthians believers would say, Well you gotta do is the price of doing business in this world. We'll go and eat this food sacrificed to idols. We'll go participate in this idol's love feast. And In 1 Corinthians 10, Paul makes it very clear, you can't drink of the cup of demons and then come drink of the cup of the Lord on the Lord's day. You can't worship by eating the food that you know was just sacrificed to that God in an act of worship and you sit down at the table and you eat, you are participating in the worship of that false God, and you can't do it. What does that mean for us? Because there's not exactly a lot of temples to false gods that we go eat at. What does it mean? It means, excuse me, faithfulness to Christ will require a certain level of separation from the things of the world and from the activities of the world that are in direct opposition to the gospel. It means we don't go certain places, we don't do certain things that are antithetical to the gospel. It means we don't live a life of contradiction. We don't get entangled with the world and then say that we stand for Christ. Now what that means is really a matter of individual conscience. But it does mean something. Go out from their midst and be separate from them. Touch no unclean thing. That means something. Too many Christians just want to live like the world. They do all the same things the world does in all the same ways that the world does them. Whether that's whatever. And a much of that is just inappropriate. I will give you some examples of things that I think are inappropriate. Playing the lottery, gambling, cursing. Um going to like a raunchy bachelor party because a buddy of yours is getting married and you're in the wedding party and you feel like you should go even though you know it's going to be completely A bad scene, right? These are the kind of things that we have to say, I'm sorry. I'm a Christian. I have to honor Jesus with my life. I'm not going to put my hopes in winning the lottery. I'm not going to participate in in gambling. I'm not going to be cursing like a sailor, even though our culture is widely accepted cursing. from everybody on everything, I'm not gonna be I'm not gonna be living like the world. I'm gonna be living as light in the darkness, not as darkness when I We are light in the Lord. It's not about being self-righteous at all. The world will accuse you of that. They'll say, oh, you're being self-righteous. Say, no. Jesus is my Lord, and I have to follow him. It's not self-righteous. It's just Jesus. And I have to honor him. So if you're if you're going to participate in something Would would you want Jesus sitting next to you participating? And I know Jesus went and he hung with the sinners and he reached out to the Lord. And I'm not saying we we completely separate ourselves off from the world. You can have relationships with unbelievers in which you're showing them the love of Christ without doing things that are immoral and that are offensive to God. So take that for what it is. I think God's calling us here to say there needs to be a certain separation from the temple of God and the idols of the world. Let's pray. Father, your ways are not our ways. They are higher and better and truer and more righteous. And we need to follow you Sometimes that means we need to turn our backs on things that are just selfish, arrogant, or fleshly or worldly. debauched. We can't go running after those things and say that we are children of light. We won't have the integrity. We won't have the upright character that would commend Christ. That would glorify you. So help us to walk in obedience, in love, in humility, in faithfulness. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Alright, that is 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Tomorrow we're going to go back to Ezekiel. Have a blessed day in the Lord.