Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and on our 1011th day We come to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, what a pleasure it is to be able to dig into your word day by day, to be able to be taught by you and grow in you. We pray that you would be our teacher and our guide today as we dig into your word. May your word take deep root in our hearts and change our lives from the inside out. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, 2 Corinthians chapter 5, for we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, we have a building from God. a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this tent we groan, longing to put on our heavenly dwelling, if indeed by putting it on we may not be found naked. For while we are still in this tent, we groan, being burdened, not that we would be unclothed, but that we would be further clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. He who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee. So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body, we are away from the Lord. For we walk by faith, not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage And we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord. So whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please Him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I hope it is also known to your conscience We are not commending ourselves to you again, but giving you cause to boast about us, so that you may be able to answer those who boast about outward appearances and not about what is in the heart. For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God. If we are in our right mind, it is for you. For the love of Christ controls us. Because we have concluded this, that one died for all, therefore all have died. And he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. All of this is from God, who has Who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ. God making his appeal through us. We implore you, on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. For our sake, he made him to be sin, who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God Amen. What a great, great chapter. So such rich gospel truth here. We live in temporary bodies, fallen bodies Bodies that are plagued by sin and the consequences of sin. And some people take the approach to say, well, our body is the problem. And we just need to be freed from our bodies and become sort of disembodied spirits. But that's not biblical. We were created by God, body and soul. You are body and soul. And that's you. The outward you, the inward you. The material you, the non-material you, the body you, the soul you. That's you. It's all you. And this body, we know I'm 50 years old and it's aches and pains some days. Work out hard for a couple of days. in a row, running, going to the gym, and uh like I can barely get out of bed and I'm walking and my legs hurt and I'm lifting things up and my arms hurt because of because this body is temporary, right? We get cancer I'm going to, uh as I record this, I'm going to be going to a funeral um a little later this morning, in fact, very soon. Because this body is temporary. But God and His promises are eternal. Our hope is eternal and unshakable Our life in Christ is eternal and unshakable. And when this body is done with We will be further clothed. In the resurrection, what is mortal will be swallowed up by life. You need to take this passage here. and hook it up with 1 Corinthians 15, the great resurrection passage, to get the fuller picture. And Paul's written both of these letters to the same church. So 1 Corinthians 15 and 2 Corinthians 5, put them together. What does that do for us now? Well, it gives us good courage. Because while we're here in the body, we're away from the Lord. And so we don't see the Lord. We don't see all the reality of his promises. We trust them. We walk by faith and not by sight. We are of good courage. We are encouraged. That means we have heart put into us. To be strengthened. Because we know that whatever happens to us in this life, in the end, we will be home with the Lord So whether we're at home or away, whether we're in this body or out of this body, whether we're in in the fallen world or in eternal glory, we make it our aim to please God. Because he's been good to us. He's given us good and precious promises. He's given us a hope that nothing in this world can take away. One day we're going to appear before the judgment seat of Christ, and we will be rewarded. as stewards for the good things that God's given us to do in the body. Or for those who are outside of Christ and their sins have not been forgiven They will be judged and punished for the evil they've done in their bodies. That's what verse 10 is referring to. We, redeemed by God, transformed by his grace, given good work to do to please him in this life, will be rewarded for that work that he's given us to do. That He's prepared us to do, that He's prepared for us. And then He rewards us for it. This astounding grace. And so with that we make it our aim to please Him Part of how we please him is that we go around proclaiming a ministry of reconciliation, not commending ourselves. None of it comes from us. And so we're not commending ourselves, nor are we all that concerned about outward appearance or human reputation, because these are temporary passing away things. So, we don't care that we're the best looking or that we're the best regarded. We only care that we have a chance to preach Christ. The love of Christ controls us. One has died for all, therefore all has died. If Christ died for me, that means I died in Christ. And he died for me, and I died in him, so that I would no longer live for myself, but for the sake of him who died. again. Jesus gave everything to me, so that I have everything in him. So therefore I can't live for myself anymore. I have to live for him. Which means my life has to be all about him. My message has to be all about him. I have to look at people the way he sees them, which is fundamentally you're in Christ and you're a new creation or you need to be reconciled. to Christ. This is our message. To fellow believers, we see people who are in Christ, who are new creations, and we want them to live according to who they are in Christ If you are in Christ, you are a new creation. Live your life to please him because he's given you everything good and eternal that you have. But if you're not in Christ, you need to be reconciled to God. Christ has made the way for you to be reconciled. If you're not in Christ, your sins are on you. If you're not in Christ, you're at enmity with God. If you're not in Christ, you need to be reconciled, and God has made a way for us to be reconciled. And that way is the final verse of our chapter. For our sake God made Jesus to be sin, who knew no sin, so that in Jesus we might become the righteousness of God. That's the way of reconciliation. One died for all. He was made sin for us, so that we might live no longer for ourselves. We might become the righteousness of God. We might become a living testimony to the grace and glory of God in Christ Jesus. That's the eternal hope. It's the eternal hope for our bodies and for our souls. It's the eternal hope for the solution to our suffering and our sin and our calling. Please Christ, because Christ has given everything for you. Live with an undying hope that your resurrection body cannot be taken away from anything in this world. They don't care about outward appearance or human reputation. Care about the glory of Christ, the gospel of Christ, the calling to live for Christ. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Everything we have is in him. Help us to live, to make Jesus known. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for 2 Corinthians 5. Tomorrow we're going to get back to that temple, but we left off in Ezekiel. Hope you can join me for that, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord. The Moard. So, you know, I think that's a good idea.