Good morning, good morning, good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church 2 John is on tap today. 2 John chapter 1, but there's only one chapter in 2 John, so it's really just the letter of 2 John. Let's pray and dig and dig on. Father in heaven, thank you for all of your word, even these little letters that are tucked in at the end of the New Testament. We thank you for them, for they are powerful, and we need them. And so we thank you for the second letter of John. We pray that you would be our teacher through this, and that you would write this letter on our hearts and help us to live in light of it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen 2 John begins with the elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love. in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth, because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us for ever Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father Son in truth and Love. I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father. And now I ask you, dear lady, not as though I were writing a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning, that we love one another And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments. This is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning So that you should walk in it. For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh Such a one is a deceiver and an antichrist. Watch yourselves so that you may not lose what we have worked for. but may win a full reward. Every one who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting, for whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works. Though I have much to write. I would rather not use paper and ink. Instead, I hope to come to you and talk face to face, so that our joy may be complete. The children of your elect sister Greet you. What a wonderful little letter. Just 13 verses. And it's we call it 2 John, although as with the Gospel of John, as with 1 John, John doesn't name himself. He just says here, the elder, which shows us John's humility that he's not trying to draw attention to himself. It also shows that the apostles, though they were apostles, had the office of elder within the church. They were elders. They had a special gift from Christ in being personally commissioned by him as apostles, but there was not a hierarchy in the early church where the apostles lorded it over. John identifies himself here as the elder. Peter in 1 Peter chapter 5 uh identifies himself when he talks to elders, he says, I who am a fellow elder exhort you. So we have evidence that both Peter and John just thought of themselves as being elders in the church. They were apostles, but they were elders. So the elder is writing to the elect lady and her children. Who is the elect lady? Could it be some unknown woman? It's the church. It's the church. Could be a local church, or it could just be written to the church. as the elect lady, the chosen lady, and her children, those who are the members of the church, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth. John's telling us that if you know the truth of God, you will love the Church of Jesus Christ. That means if you don't love the Church of Jesus Christ, you don't know the truth. You might think you do, but you don't, because how can you love Jesus and not love his bride? How can you be following the Good Shepherd and not be among his sheep? How can you be connected to the cornerstone of the temple without being a stone that is being built up into that temple? The church is what God is doing in the world. It is the manifest kingdom of God on earth. the bride of Christ, the body of Christ, the flock of God, the living temple of God, and all who know the truth love the church. Is the church perfect? No. We're not perfect. The church in the first century wasn't perfect either, and that's shown in verse 4 when John says, I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth. In fact, if you read the whole New Testament, you find out the church never had some golden age when the apostles were alive, when everything was perfect and harmonious. No. There were false teachers, they were false brethren, they were antichrists There were bad influences from the very beginning. Remember, Judas was one of the twelve. And so we don't just love a perfect church. We love the real church, the church that actually exists. Not a church we've created in our minds. that we think should exist and therefore we're only going to love that church. We need to love the Church of Jesus Christ, the elect lady, and her children Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father's Son, in love and truth. What do we need from God? Grace Mercy and peace. What a powerful trio. Grace, undeserved, favor and kindness. Mercy, the withholding of punishment that we deserve and giving us Kindness, forgiveness, instead, peace, the peace of God that surpasses all understanding. They're given to us by God the Father and Jesus Christ through the the gospel, they're given to us in truth and in love. It is so important that if we walk with God, we walk in the truth. The truth is emphasized throughout this short little letter, as is love, that we walk in the truth and that we walk in love toward one another. That's really the main point of 2 John. Walk in the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ and walk in love with one another. What is the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ? The coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. That Jesus Christ, God the Son The Eternal One, begotten by the Father before all worlds, God the Son, came in the flesh as Jesus of Nazareth, the Anointed One, the Christ, the Messiah. to purchase salvation for us, to win a bride for himself, to buy back, to redeem the people of God. We must believe that truth And we must walk in love, abiding in the teaching of the truth, and walking in love. Unfortunately, the church has always had from the beginning and has tons of people in her midst today. That do not love the truth and do not truly love. People who distort the truth of God and who say that Jesus was a created being. Or he was just a man, or he was a great prophet, or he was a noble teacher, or whatever. And they call themselves Christians and they circulate among the church, and John says such people are deceivers and antichrists. But then there are people who affirm the truth and who say, Jesus is the Christ, he's the Son of the living God, He's God the Son, come in the flesh, but they don't love. They don't love the people of God. They don't love the church. They don't practice hospitality. They don't show love toward one another. And that's not right either, because if we know the truth, we will walk in the commandments. commandments of God, and that commandment is that we love one another. That we love one another. You can't say Jesus is Lord, but I'm not going to do what he tells me to do, any more than you can say Jesus is my head, but I'm not going to be part of his body. These things are contradictions. They cannot be so. And so John wraps up his little letter by saying I've much to write to you, but what I really want to do is come and greet you face to face. And then he says, the children of your elect sister greet you. probably indicating here that he was writing to a particular congregation and from another particular congregation. And that means that there's connection and there's love between congregations. So we have the Church of Jesus Christ manifest in our local congregation, but so do others, and we should love and so I hope you love the church. I hope you love the church because you love Jesus. I hope you're committed to walking in the truth, in love, among the church of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are so great, so great beyond our imagination. There is no one like you. We ask that you would bless us. And keep us and help us to walk in the truth and to walk in love. Thank you for your church. She is your precious bride. Help us to love her as much as you Well that is Second John. Where are we going tomorrow? How about Ezra? Ezra's where we pick up the history of God's people after Chronicles so we'll be there tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that, and as always I do hope you have a very blessed day in the Lord.