Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church and uh You can see it's not morning where I am right now. I'm in Jerusalem. And those are the lights of the city of Jerusalem that you see out the window behind me. And uh it is good to be with you for day 494 of our journey through God's Word as we come to 2 Kings 9. Let's pray together Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your love for us and for your word and for the gift of being able to spend time in your word together day by day. We pray that you'd write your word on our hearts. We pray that you would stir our minds to understand, and our lives to respond to your word in love and in obedience. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. 2 Kings chapter 9. Then Elisha the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets and said to him, Tie up your garments and take this flask of oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth Gilead. And when you arrive, look there for Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat, son of Nimshe. And go in and have him rise from among his fellows and lead him to an inner chamber. Then take the flask of oil. And pour it on his head and say, Thus says the Lord, I anoint you king over Israel. Then open the door and flee. Do not linger. So the young man, the servant of the prophet, went to Ramoth Gilead, and when he came, behold, the commanders of the army were in council. And he said, I have a word for you, O commander. And Jehu said, To which of us all? And he said, To you, O commander. So he arose and went into the house, and the young man poured the oil on his head, saying to him, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, I anoint you king over the people of Israel. over the people of the Lord, over Israel. And you shall strike down the house of Ahab your master, so that I may avenge on Jezebel the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the Lord For the whole house of Ahab shall perish, and I will cut off from Ahab every male, bond or free, in Israel And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baashah the son of Ahijah, and the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the territory of Jezreel, and none shall bury her. Then he opened the door and fled. When Jehu came out to the servants of his master, they said to him, Is all well? Why did this mad fellow come to you And he said, you know the fellow and his talk. And they said, that is not true. Tell us now. And he said, Thus and so he spoke to me, saying, Thus says the Lord, I anoint you king over Israel. Then in haste Every man of them took his garment and put it under him on the bare steps, and they blew the trumpet and proclaimed, Jehu is king. Then Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshe, conspired against Joram. Now Joram with all Israel had been on guard at Ramoth Gilead against Haziel, king of Syria. But King Joram hath returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds that the Syrians had given him when he fought with Hazel, king of Syria. So Jehu said, if this is your decision, then let no one slip out of the city to go and tell the news in Jezreel. Then Jehu mounted his chariot and went to Jezreel, for Joram lay there, and Ahaziah, king of Judah, had come down to visit Joram. Now the watchman was standing on the tower in Jezreel, and he saw the company of Jehu as he came and said, I see a company. And Joram said, Take a horseman and send to meet them, and let him say, Is it peace? So a man on horseback went to meet him and said, Thus says the king, Is it peace? And Jehu said, What have you to do with peace? Turn around and ride behind me. And the watchman reported, The messenger reached them, but he is not coming back. Then he sent out a second horseman who came to them and said, Thus the king has said, Is it peace? And Jehu answered, What have you to do with peace? Turn around and ride behind me And the watchman reported, He reached them, but he is not coming back. And the driving is like the driving of Jehu, the son of Nimshi, for he drives furiously Joram said, Make ready, and they made ready his chariot. Then Joram, king of Israel, and Ahaziah, king of Judah, set out each in his chariot, and went to meet Jehu, and met him at the property of Naboth. the Jezreelite. And when Joram saw Jehu, he said, Is it peace, Jehu? He answered, What peace can there be so long as the whorings and the sorceries of your mother Jezebel are so many? Then Joram reigned about and fled, saying to Ahaziah, Treachery, O Ahaziah! And Jehu drew his bow with his full strength and shot Joram between the shoulders, so that the arrow pierced his heart, and he sank in his chariot. Jehu said to Bidkar, his aide, Take him up and throw him on the plot of ground belonging to Naboth the Jezreelite. For remember when you and I rode side by side behind Ahab his father how the Lord made this pronouncement against him. As surely as I saw yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons, declares the Lord, I will repay you on this plot of ground. Now therefore, take him up and throw him on the plot of ground in accordance with the word of the Lord When Ahaziah, the king of Judah, saw this, he fled in the direction of Beth Hagan. And Jehu pursued him and said, Shoot him also. And they shot him in the chariot at the ascent of Gur, which is by Iblium. And he fled to Megiddo and died there His servants carry him in his chariot to Jerusalem and bury him in his tomb with his fathers in the city of David. In the eleventh year of Joram, the son of Ahab, Ahaziah began to reign over Judah. When Jehu came to Jezebel, came to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it And she painted her eyes and adorned her head and looked out the window, and as Jehu entered the gate, she said, Is it peace, you Zimri, murderer of your master? And he lifted up his face to the window and said, Who is on my side? Who? Two or three eunuchs looked out at him. He said, Throw her down So they threw her down, and some of her blood splattered on the wall and on the horses, and they trampled her. Then he went in and ate and drank, and he said, See now to this cursed woman, and bury her, for she is a king's daughter. But when they went to bury her they found no more of her than the skull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands When they came back and told him, he said, This is the word of the Lord which he spoke by his servant Elijah the Tishvite in the territory of Jezreel, the dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezebel. And the corpse of Jezebel shall be as dung on the face of the field in the territory of Jezreel, so that no one can say, This is Jezebel. Hmm. That is Second Kings chapter nine. And let me tell you, being here in Jerusalem in Israel, just a couple of days ago, we were at Megiddo, which which is where Uh Joram died, where uh Ahaziah died, and uh yeah, and Jezreel was right across the valley looking out over the valley of Jezreel. You know, I can picture all these places now in my mind being here. But what would what do we have here in 2 Kings chapter 9? Well, what we have here is consequences. You sow what you reap. Do not be deceived, God cannot be mocked. Whatever a man sows, that he will also reap. Whoever sows to his flesh will from the flesh reap destruction. And so Joram, the son of Ahab, Jezebel, the wife of Ahab, and Ahaziah, who made an alliance with Joram, they're all suffering the consequences. Of years of sowing to their flesh and now reaping destruction. God has anointed Jehu to be king over Israel It was done through the hands of Elisha the prophet and one of the sons of the prophets. There are three anointed offices. Prophet, priest, and king. Ideally, prophet and priest together should anoint the king. But prophets are the ones who are generally called upon to do the anointing of uh of kings. And so you have Samuel who anointed David. And here Elisha is anointing Jehu. There is no properly functioning priest in Israel. because their worship system is corrupted. So Elisha as the rightful God anointed heir of Elijah and covenant mediator, he's the one who anoints Jehu, son of Jehoshaphat, son of Nimshi. And this just plays out like really almost like a movie, you know, this compelling storyline of of Jehu being at Javesh Gilead, this very key uh city not JBS Gilead, Ramoth Gilead, uh and being being there to to defend Israel against Syrians. This is something that would have been done over and over again. And we find out that Joram had been injured by the Syrians and he had gone to recover. And so inwalks This son of the prophet sent by Elisha, and he anoints Jehu king over Israel Because it is time for the whole house of Ahab to perish, and for every male, bond or free in Israel to be cut off from Ahab. That's what we read in verse eight. And this is all because of years of bail worship and political alliances that are trusted in instead of trusting in the Lord. And so you have this uh This judgment. Judgment comes. And Jehu, you know, it's interesting. He doesn't really embrace the role of being king. He's not eager to be king. He doesn't really say anything uh to this son of the prophet. And when the son of the prophet leaves, Jehu comes out. And the fellow soldiers are there and they say to him, You know, is all well? Why does this mad fellow come to you? And he says, Well, you know the fellow in his talk. And they're like, uh, well you're not telling us anything yet, guy. Come on. Tell us what's going on. And so he's like, Ah, you know, he's not come to anoint you king over Israel. He's almost dismissive about it. But they are instant to jump on this. They want Jehu to be their king. They are probably sick and tired of the house of Ahab. They probably know the prophecies that uh Ah that Elijah pronounced against Ahab and against his house, and they want Jehu to be their king. And so he says, if that's your decision. then don't let anyone escape to go and warn Joram and warn, you know, the ruling house and let's go. You know, let's go And so step by step they get there and you know they execute the judgment on Joram, they execute judgment on Ahaziah, who's made this alliance with Joram, and then finally and most most graphically, most brutally They execute judgment on Jezebel. But it's very, very compelling that in God's providence, when Joram makes ready and Joram sets out to meet Jehu. He meets him at the property of Naboth the Jezreelite. It is right there where one of the bloodiest deeds of Ahab's kingship was done, where this innocent man was put to death unjustly through Jezebel's scheming that there is where Jezebel dies and there is where dogs eat her. And that's exactly what the Lord had promised that he was going to do. So, Jehu was king. What do we get from this chapter? I think the most obvious thing we get from this chapter is that actions have consequences, right? You reap what you sow. This is a truth when when the Bible says, do not be deceived, God cannot be mocked. It means what it says. If we willfully and wantonly and repeatedly sow to our flesh we will reap corruption and consequences, even grave and severe ones. And Ahab knew the truth Ahab, you know, allowed Elijah to have the confrontation against the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel. He didn't have him put to death. Uh he allowed the eight hundred and fifty to be put to death, the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal, the four hundred uh prophets of Asherah. He allowed them to be put to death after the confrontation on Mount Carmel. You know, he had this time of repentance when he He was dressed in sackcloth and was seeming to repent of his sins and seek the Lord. Ahab knew the truth. But he sinned against the light that God had given him. And doing so, sinning against the light that God gives us, deliberately and repeatedly. Sowing to our flesh is just a very dangerous path. I think that's the biggest lesson to learn here. Where do we see Christ here? Well, here's something perhaps unexpected that we need to see, and that is that Christ is the judge. As well as our Redeemer and our Savior, he is the judge He's the one who executes justice on the earth. He's the one who raises up, and he's the one who brings down. And so it is Christ who is at work here Anointing Jehu and using Jehu as his instrument of justice to bring down Jezebel and bring down the house of Ahab. So we need To reverently fear and humbly honor and seek to sincerely obey the Lord Jesus Christ, knowing that actions have consequences. And that Christ is the judge. And if we belong to him, if we claim his name, if we say he's our Savior and our Redeemer, and His blood has cleansed us of all of our sin, we need to live like it. Not that we're ever going to be sinless in this life, but our life needs to have a fundamental change of orientation to show that we belong to the Lord. And that was never seen really in the lives of Ahab or his house. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this portion of your word. It's sobering. It is really sobering part of your word. But we need to hear it. And we need to have it written on our hearts, and we need to obey it. And we pray that we would, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for 2 Kings 9. Tomorrow we'll be on to 2 Kings 10. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the world.