Good morning, brothers and sisters. Welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Michael Talercio, pastoral intern of Forestal Presbyterian Church Say 489, and we're in the book of 2 Kings again for this morning, chapter 6 today. As we've been seeing in the book of 2 Kings, God has been providing for his people through the prophet Elisha. even during the m the reign of these various kings who are not always the most godly men. And we're going to see that continue in today's passage. So before we open the passage, let's ask for the Lord's help, that he would allow us to see into the text what he wants us to get out of it, but mostly and specifically through Understanding how this text points us forward to his son, the true King, Jesus. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you have given us another day to worship you. To know you, Lord. We're not just worshiping some figment of our imagination. Our intention is to worship the God of creation, who is also the God of the Scriptures. And so we pray, Father, that you would allow us to see your son through this passage as it points us forward to him in a variety of ways. We pray that you would give us clarity as to how we can Draw from this word this morning and this passage of 2 Kings 6 and how we can be transformed because our because you are enabling us to see Jesus through this passage. Pray that your Holy Spirit would enliven us. uh and give us the hands and feet of Jesus today to be to be his body in this world as his people. Pray this for his glory and for the good of your church and and as a result the good of your of your world, your creation. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, 2 Kings chapter 6. Now the sons of the prophets said to Elisha See, the place where we dwell under your charge is too small for us. Let us go to the Jordan and each of us get there a log, and let us make a place for us to dwell there And he answered, Go. Then one of them said, Be pleased to go with your servants. And he answered, I will go. So he went with them, and when they came to the Jordan, they cut down trees. But as one was felling a log, his axe head fell into the water, and he cried out, Alas, my master, it was borrowed Then the man of God said, Where did it fall? When he showed him the place, he cut off a stick and threw it in there, and made the iron float. And he said, Take it up. So he reached out his hand and took it. Once, when the king of Syria was warring against Israel, he took counsel with his servants, saying, At such and such a place shall be my camp. But the man of God sent word to the king of Israel, Beware that you do not pass this place, for the Syrians are going down there. And the king of Israel sent to the place about which the man of God had told him. Thus he used to warn him so that he saved himself there more than once or twice. And the mind of the king of Syria was greatly troubled because of this thing, and he called his servants and said to them, Will you not show me who of us is for the king of Israel? And one of his servants said, None, my lord, O king, but Elisha the prophet, who is in Israel, tells the king of Israel the words that you speak in your bedroom And he said, Go and see where he is, that I may send and seize him. It was told him, Behold, he is in Dothan. So he sent their horses and chariots and a great army, and they came by night and surrounded the city. When the servant of the man of God rose early in the morning and went out, behold, an army with horses and chariots was all around the city. And the servant said, Alas, my master, what shall we do? He said, Do not be afraid, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them. Then Elisha prayed and said, O Lord, please open his eyes that he may see. So the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. And when the Syrians came down against them, Elisha prayed to the Lord and said, Please strike this people with blindness. So in accordance with the prayer of Elisha. And Elisha said to them, This is not the way, and this is not the city. Follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom you seek. And he led them to Samaria. As soon as they entered, said, O Lord, open the eyes of these men that they may see. So the Lord opened their eyes and they saw, and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria As soon as the king of Israel saw them, he said to Elisha, My father, shall I strike them down? Shall I strike them down? He answered, You shall not strike them down. Would you strike down those whom you have taken captive with your sword and with your bow? Set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink, and go to their master. So he prepared for them a great feast, and when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. And the Syrians did not come again on raids into the land of Israel. Afterward, Ben Hadad, king of Syria, mustered his entire army and went up and besieged Samaria And there was a great famine in Samaria as they besieged it, until a donkey's head was sold for eighty shekels of silver, and the fourth part of a cab of doves dung for five shekels of silver. Now, as the King of Israel was passing by on the wall, a woman cried out to him, saying, Help, my lord, O king! And he said, If the Lord will not help you, how shall I help you? From the threshing floor or from the wine press? And the king asked her, What is your trouble? She answered, This woman said to me, Give your son that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son to-morrow So we boiled my son and ate him. And on the next day I said to her, Give your son that we may eat him. But she has hidden her son. When the king heard the words of the woman, he tore his clothes. Now he was passing by on the wall, and the people looked, and behold, he had sackcloth beneath on his body. And he said, May God do so to me and more also if the head of Elisha, the son of Shaphat, remains on his shoulders today. Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him. Now the king had dispatched a man from his presence, but before the messenger arrived, Elisha said to the elders, Do you see how this murderer has sent to take off my head? Look, when the messenger comes, shut the door and hold the door fast against him. Is not the sound of his master's feet behind him? And while he was still speaking with them, the messenger came down to him and said, This trouble is from the Lord. Why should I wait for the Lord any longer? There's a lot going on in today's passage. We have three different occasions that are somewhat episodic. We even see in verse eight there, the beginning of the verse, once when the king of Syria was warring against Israel. It's it seems as if These are somewhat disconnected occasions that are being recorded for us to see how the Lord is providing for His faithful remnant in Israel. through the prophet Elisha. And we see that in particular in the beginning of the passage with verses 1 to 7. There's this group of the sons of the prophets. that are with Elisha, dwelling with him, learning from him, under his tutelage. And they're in a small area. They want to go. They want to expand their area by by building uh a place for us to dwell in. And Elisha gives them their blessing. And then, interestingly, in verse 3, one of them asks Elisha to go with them, and he says, I will go. And as they're there felling these trees in the uh near the Jordan, um One of them goes to chop the tree and the axe head flies off the handle and goes into the Jordan River and he cries out, Alas, my master, it was borrowed. So this man is upset, not just because he can't continue to build, but because this axe head of uh that he's using isn't his, it's somebody else's, and he wants to be able to restore that. He intends to use it and then to restore it to the, to return it to the person whom he had borrowed it from. And so he calls out to Elisha, the man of God, as he's called elsewhere in this passage. To help him in some way, to be able to return uh this axe head to its rightful owner And Elisha does this miracle where he cuts a stick and throws it into the river in the area in the spot where the axe head had fallen, and then the iron floats. Or the iron did swim, as it's put in uh some recollections of this account. Uh and he said Elisha said, Take it up, and the man was able to reach out his hand and take the axe head, which which was probably quite expensive. And so we see the provision here of a simple need. We see God providing for something rather basic. I mean it's not unimportant, but it's not the most significant thing ever that God is providing for here through this servant Elisha. And it just shows us that God cares for his people, his remnant here, those who are faithful to him. He's taking care of their simple needs. And what I find intriguing is how we have this detail in verse 3, that one of these prophets, one of the sons of the prophets, asks Elisha to go with them, and he answers, I will go. And I thought, how does this point us forward to Jesus? Well, there's one occasion in the Gospels in which Jesus says, I will go, or I will come with you. And that's in Matthew chapter 8. In Matthew chapter 8, a centurion goes to Jesus and tells him that he has a servant of his who he values who's at home lying paralyzed, suffering terribly. And Jesus' response to him is I will come and heal him. And this may not be a direct connection, but I thought it was interesting that this is the only place that I found in the gospel accounts. In which Jesus says, I will come, I will go and do this thing. And the language is very similar there to Elisha, I will go. And if it's the only occasion when Jesus says that, it maybe there's something to it. But if nothing else, what we see is that in 2 Kings 6, Elisha, the one who really points us forward to the Lord Jesus in in this chapter, The way that God is providing for his people through him, pointing us forward to Jesus, the one whom God provides our greatest needs through. The connection there is just that in 2 Kings 6 Elisha cares for the needs, the simple needs of the prophets of God's people. In Matthew chapter 8, Jesus cares for even greater needs for his people. He is willing to go with his servants, not just so that they can build a house, not just to restore a lost axe head, but to really restore a person's life as they're dying, suffering terribly. Jesus cares for his people. As we move through the passage, we see God continuing to provide for his people through his servant Elisha. as he makes Elisha aware of the king of Syria's war plans as he is trying to fight against the king of Israel. God is making Elisha aware of the king of Syria's plans, and then Elisha goes and tells the king of Israel, and the king of Israel is therefore able to avoid any capture or any sort of skirmishes. And this keeps happening. And the king of Syria is perplexed and he wants to know how, and he's told that it's because Elisha, this prophet in Israel tells the king of Israel what the king of Syria is saying in secret. And the king of Syria is perplexed, he's upset, he wants to capture Elisha, so he sends these soldiers and they go and they set up to go down and to get Elisha. And it's then that Elisha prays to the Lord to open the eyes of his servant with him, who's afraid. And his servant is able to see. that there are that there is, as it says in verse 17, a mountain full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. So we have this servant seeing that God is protecting with angelic beings, invisible beings. He's protecting his people. He's protecting Elisha and those with him. And what's interesting is that at the same moment, or right around the same moment, that this servant's eyes are opened. The men of Syria, the soldiers of Syria's eyes are closed. They are blinded as a result of the prayer of Elisha to the Lord. The Lord strikes these men with blindness. And then Elisha leads them away to Samaria where the king of Israel is, and then prays that their eyes would be open and their eyes are open. And these men are right in the presence of the king of Israel who could just strike them down and kill them. And notice how ready the king of Israel is to kill these men. Verse 21. As soon as the king of Israel saw them, he said to Elisha, My father, shall I strike them down? Shall I strike them down? He's very eager to kill these men who are helpless at this point. And Elisha says, you shall not strike them down. Instead, feed them and send them back to their master, to the king of Syria. But whereas the king of Israel in today's passage is ready to kill these men from Syria, ready to kill his enemies. The true King of Israel, Jesus, is ready to lay his life down in place of those who would be his enemies. We read in Matthew chapter 26 an interesting connection where Jesus is about to be arrested and his disciples are there trying to defend him from this arrest. Jesus says in Matthew 26 verse 53, Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? See, Jesus has access to way more protection than what we read of in today's passage, and yet he forgoes that protection. In order to go forward with, as he says in verse 54 of Matthew 26, with the scriptures being fulfilled. And those scriptures are speaking of Jesus' death, his sacrificial death to pay for the sins of his people, and the resurrection that would be accomplished just three days later So that people that would naturally be his enemies could actually become his family, could become his brothers and sisters And what effect does such mercy have on people who deserve death? Well, we get a tiny glimpse of it at the end of this section in 2 Kings 6, verse 23. The Syrians did not come again on raids into the land of Israel. So after Elisha's merciful commandment to spare these servants, and they go back to their king with full bellies. They've learned a lesson. And at least in part, they don't come again on raised into the land of Israel. Now that doesn't mean that there's no longer any tension between Syria and Israel, as we read in the next verse. Ben-Hadad musters his entire army and they go to war against Samaria. They besiege it, which means they surround it, they cut off the food and the water that are going into it. And as a result, the famine is so severe that things that aren't really even food, a donkey's head, dove's dung, are sold for exorbitant prices in Samaria. And there's starvation happening, and that's why as the king is passing by on the wall, a woman cries out to him for help, and he says, Rather complainingly against the Lord. If the Lord will not help you, how shall I help you? This isn't uncharacteristic of this king of Israel. He's already complained against the Lord twice in chapter three Here he complains against them, and at the end of the text we'll see even more starkly how he's complaining. But hearing this terrible news from these women, just unspeakable conditions of their hunger. Uh really stuff that they should not do. They should sooner die from starvation than than kill and eat their children. But The king of Israel is furious at Elisha because of what Elisha has been doing, even though really it's his own fault that they're in these circumstances. He's an ungodly king. God has already pronounced judgment against him, and he's experiencing opportunities here really to repent, to humble himself, but instead he sends to go have Elisha killed. Verse 31, May God do so to me and more also if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat remains on his shoulders today And Elisha, because of God's grace, is made aware that this is going to happen. And so he uh sets up a defense there, a way to protect himself. But what we just mentioned about the complaining of this king of Israel is seen in the last verse as he sends his messenger to come down to him. The messenger brings word from the king, This trouble is from the Lord. Why should I wait for the Lord any longer? Here we see the King of Israel show his true colors. He's unwilling to trust the Lord. No matter what. When it comes down to it, when circumstances are at their worst, he will not trust in the Lord. Even this sackcloth that he has on, it's how it's underneath his clothing, it's kind of almost metaphorical for this half-hearted repentance, not real repentance. a humility, a dejectedness, but not actual repentance to the Lord, not actual trust in the Lord. He must be thinking something like, how dare Elisha Allow these soldiers of Syria to go free, only for them to come back here to the same city that we let them go from with their entire army, and now we are besieged and starving as a result. How dare Elisha do that? How dare the Lord call me to show mercy to these people when it's leading to this disgusting circumstances in Samaria? Brothers and sisters, sometimes the Lord is going to call us to hard circumstances. He's going to call us to show mercy to people that we don't want to show mercy to. He's going to call us to take him at his word, to do what he tells us to in his commandments at cost to ourselves. But perhaps the most difficult thing that the Lord will call us to do today is to trust him. That when circumstances don't go the way we want, number one, we don't deserve for them to, just like the king of Israel didn't. Number two, God will provide for us what we need in his timing. And I hope that the glimpses that we saw of Jesus in today's passage, in today's time, will inspire you to trust the Lord even more in those difficult times. Because God hasn't spared the greatest provision for his people. He's given us his son. And if that's the case, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Let's go to him in prayer. Father, thank you that you have given us Jesus, the true King, the one that The king of Israel just help us feel the longing for, the need for, because that king wasn't the kind we need. Thank you that you have given us the king who would provide for even more mundane needs than we read of at the beginning of today's chapter. Thank you for the king who would save your people. And enable them to turn to you in repentance and to be restored because of his provision for us in dying for us and rising again. Thank you for this, King. Thank you that along with this King, we will receive all these other little forms of provision that we can't receive apart from him. Thank you that you have graciously given us Jesus May we live for him today. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, brothers and sisters, I hope you have been encouraged by this look at 2 Kings 6 and the ways that it points us to Jesus Christ, the truest provision from the Lord. The one who is the Lord. Let's live for him today in light of his love for us. God bless you