Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 518 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We come now to the end of 2 Kings with 2 Kings. 25. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for giving us this day, for blessing us with your love, for giving us your word and time to be in your word together. We pray that you would speak to us through your word, that you would write your word on our hearts, that you would show us our need for Christ, and that you would grow us in our love for you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Second Kings chapter twenty-five, a sad ending to the unfolding drama of the book of Kings. And in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month. Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came with all his army around Jerusalem and laid siege to it, and they built siege works all around it. So the city was besieged till the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. On the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine was so severe in the city that there was no food for the people of the land. Then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war fled by night by way of the gate between the two walls by the king's garden, and the Chaldeans were around the city. And they went in the direction of the Arabah. But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook him in the plains of Jericho, and all his army was scattered from him. Then they captured the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah, and they passed sentence on him. They slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah. before his eyes, put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him in chains, and took him to Babylon. In the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, that was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon Nabusaredon, the captain of the bodyguard, a servant of the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem, and he burned the house of the Lord and the king's house, and all the houses of Jerusalem, every great house he burned. down. And all the army of the Chaldeans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down the walls around Jerusalem. And the rest of the people who were left in the city, and the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon, together with the rest of the multitude, the Busaredon, the captain of the guard, carried into exile But the captain of the guard left some of the poorest people of the land to be vine dressers and plowmen. And the pillars of bronze that were in the house of the Lord, and the sands and the bronze sea that were in the house of the Lord, the Chaldeans, broke in pieces and carried the bronze to Babylon And they took away the pots and the shovels and the snuffers and the dishes for incense and all the vessels of bronze used in the temple service, the fire pans also in the bowls. What was of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold, what was of silver as silver. And for the two pillars, the one sea, and the stands that Solomon had made for the house of the Lord The bronze of all these vessels was beyond weight. The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and on it was a capital of bronze. The height of the capital was three cubits A latticework and pomegranates, all of bronze, were all around the capital, and a second pillar had the same width the latticework. And the captain of the guard took Sariah, the chief priest, and Zephaniah, the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold. And from the city he took an officer who had been in command of the men of war, and five men of the king's council who were found in the city. and the secretary of the commander of the army who mustered the people of the land and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the city. And Nebuzeradon, the captain of the guard, took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. And the king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah. was taken into exile out of its land. And over the people who remained in the land of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, had left, He appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikim, son of Shaphan, governor. Now when all the captains and their men heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah governor, they came with their men to Gedaliah at Mizbah namely Ishmael the son of Nathaniah, and Johannon the son of Kareah, and Sarah the son of Tanhumath, the Natophathite, and Jazaniah, the son of the Makethite. And Gedalih swore to them and their men, saying, Do not be afraid because of the Chaldean officials. Live in the land, and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you. But in the seventh month, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, son of Elishema, of the royal family, Came with ten men and struck down Gedaliah and put him to death, along with the Jews and the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah. Then all the people, both small and great, and the captains of the forces arose and went to Egypt, for they were afraid of the Chaldeans. And in the 37th year of the exile of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, Evil Meradoch, king of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, graciously freed Jehoiakim, king of Judah, from prison. And he spoke kindly to him, and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were with him in Babylon. So Jehoiakim put off his prison garments. And every day of his life he dined regularly at the king's table. And for his allowance a regular allowance was given him by the king, according to his daily needs, as long as he lived lived. That is the Book of Second Kings, which is really the end of the book of Kings. It's really one book that's in two volumes. And the end of 2 Kings gives us a good idea of when this book was actually written and why it was written. We're going to get to Chronicles next. When we get to the end of Chronicles, we'll see that at the end of Chronicles, we have a decree. to restore the people of Judah to their land, to return them from exile. But here we end right in the middle of the exile It's the 37th year of the exile of Jehoiakim, the um King of Judah. It's in the twelfth month on the twenty-seventh day of the month that he's released from prison. He's allowed to sit at the table and and he's given this uh this freedom. So putting together everything, Evil Meredok was Nebuchadnezzar's son, and he ruled from 562 to 560 BC. Uh basically Jehoiakin is released from prison around 561, right? And so he was sent into pr into exile 37 years before that. Remember, he was not the last king of uh Israel, of Judah. Sorry, that was um Zedekiah. So this is the earlier king, Jehoiakin, who had who had given himself over to the Babylonians and was taken So it makes sense that he was treated more kindly. But this gives us a pretty good idea of when Kings was written, is the whole point. It's written right around this time, 561, 560. Which means they're still in exile. And it's going to be some time before they're returned from exile. It's going to be another 30, 40 years before they are released from exile. So you've got Jehoiakin who's dragged off in 597. It may have been when Jehoiakin was dragged off that Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Nebenigo were also dragged off somewhere around 597. The actual fall of Jerusalem recorded here in Second Kings 25 doesn't happen for another eleven years after that, 586, and then 561, he's released from prison, but they're not going to come back to uh to the land until um several uh uh a few more decades of exile. There's gonna be seventy years of of exile from 597 to 527, and then the temple's going to be destroyed for for 70 years from 586. uh two five sixteen. So it's gonna be more decades. So why write this book? Well, of course, for all of us, for all of God's people, for all of uh church history, there's a purpose for the book of Kings, and that is that it tells us that all of the kings No matter how good or evil they were, they all fell short of being the king that God's people need, because the king that God's people need is Jesus And so only Jesus is the perfect King and the Eternal King. All of these kings who fill the pages of the books of kings uh are Are failures, right? All of them fall short. Even Josiah, Josiah was the best and the most uh righteous and the most faithful and the most thorough in his reformation. Even he Wasn't sufficient to save God's people and wasn't perfect. But Jesus alone is. But in the immediate context of when the book was first written in around 560 B. C. , it's written to the people who are in captivity in Babylon to answer this question of why? Why should we trust the Lord Yahweh? if he wasn't able to keep us from coming into exile. And why if Yahweh had made this covenant promise to his people and he had made all these precious promises of kingship and land and inheritance and faithfulness, why are they in exile? So it really is written to explain that. And what we can see and even more clearly here in 2 Kings 25, it becomes so crystal clear is that it's not the faithlessness of God. God is faithful to keep all of his promises. It's the faithless treachery of the political leadership of Judah and then the people of Judah who follow them. They are faithless. To the end. God is faithful, but the people of Judah, their leaders, their kings, their officials, they are faithless to the end. And their faithlessness is even seen here where after, so Zedekiah, uh, we saw at the end of last um Chapter 24, he did not uh submit to the King of Babylon. They were under the rule of the King of Babylon. He had already come in, he had already taken off you know, all the leading officials and all the wealthy people and all the educated people in that exile in five ninety-seven again, probably when Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were taken off during that exile, so this is sometime later. And he just he doesn't want to be. You know, he's he's reigning for eleven years. uh from five ninety-seven to five eighty six, that el that eleven years. He doesn't want to be under the King of Babylon, so he's faithless to the King of Babylon, who is by God's providence, placed over him. He was supposed to submit to the king of Babylon, but he was treacherous and faithless, and so he rebelled, and that's why the final destruction came. The exile came. and the being brought under Babylon came because of generation upon generation of faithlessness and treachery to God and to the covenant. But the immediate trigger for why it is that Jerusalem gets burned to the ground the temple destroyed, everything laid waste. The immediate cause of that is Zedekiah being faithless. And he's so faithless that even after they're completely defeated, they try to run away, running away is a sign of faithlessness They're caught by the army of the Chaldeans. They're they're they're slaughtered, everybody's slaughtered, and then Zedekiah's eyes are put out. Right? Even after all that happens, and Zedekiah blinded is taken off into exile. And they're given a governor, right? They're given this governor who's put over them, and they are rebellious to this governor. It's down here in verse 22. Gadaliah is made the governor, and all anybody who's left with any kind of authority, which most of them have been taken away, so this is like the third or fourth tier of guys who are left. Anybody who has any kind of authority, they're faithless again. They kill the governor. And then they run away to Egypt. Running away to Egypt is always a sign of absolute faithlessness in in Old Testament sort of geography and and uh actions. Right? Running away from the city during exile was faithlessness, running away to Egypt was even more faithless. So what we see is faithlessness from God's people. Should that surprise us? Are we any better? Right? If we are faithless, he will remain faithful, for he cannot disown himself. That's what the Bible tells us. We are the faithless ones. We are not covenant keepers. We do not keep our promises, we do not keep covenant, we do not fulfill what is required, we do not keep faith, we break faith, we break covenant, we break our word, we're faithless. Yet God is faithful. And God's faithfulness here is shown in that Jehoiakim, who at least had the good sense to submit and surrender. to the king of Babylon, which is the same thing that Jeremiah was urging Zedekiah to do, and Zedekiah ignored him. God is gracious to them in their captivity. And here the king of Judah, Jehoiakim, gets to dine at the king's table in Babylon And of course we know what's going on also behind the scenes, and that is that Daniel has risen to a place of prominence within Babylon, which is probably why Jehoiakim is given this special privilege of being given a seat. Above the seats of the kings who were with him at Babylon. This is the faithfulness of God. No matter how faithless God's people are, God remains faithful. And that's our hope. In his faithfulness, he will ultimately send the perfect King, Jesus Christ, who will be faithful unto death, even the death on a cross. And therefore God will highly exalt him and give him the name above every name. That's Philippians 2. So the faithlessness of the kings of Israel and Judah is contrasted to the faithfulness of Of the one true King, Jesus, who was faithful even unto death, obedient to death, even death on a cross, Philippians 2 tells us. And therefore he's been highly exalted. Jehoiakin here gets a little bit of exaltation because of God's faithfulness and Daniel's faithful service, which is not perfect but is a reflection of God's faithfulness. And so this is a little bit of a preview, a little bit of a hint, right? But Jesus is faithful completely, and so he's exalted not just to a seat at the table of the King of Babylon above the kings, but he's exalted to the highest throne in the universe as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And the good news for that, for us faithless people is that when we go to God and we simply confess our faithlessness and we say, I have lied, and I have been selfish and I have been faithless and I have not kept what you've commanded me to do and my heart is prone to wander, Lord I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. When we confess that openly to God, He says, I forgive you, I've covered you with the righteousness of Christ. His faithfulness will stand for you. And you will be mine, not because you're faithful, but because I have been faithful. And that is the good news of the gospel. Even in this dark ending here, we see a little glimpse of it in that we are given a place at God's table. We are given a place alongside the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the Lord Jesus Christ, who invites us to sit at his table and to sup with him and to enjoy fellowship in his kingdom when we've been faithless. Because he has been faithful. Let's pray him. Father, thank you for Jesus Christ, our faithful King. Thank you that he did everything we need for our salvation. Father, help us to follow after Jesus. Make us more faithful. Not by our own ability. We don't have it in and of ourselves. But by your grace, by the power of your Holy Spirit, applying to us the righteousness and faithfulness of Christ, make us more faithful and more thankful and more ready to confess, and more eager to be cleansed and covered by the blood and righteousness of Jesus the faithful one. We thank you and praise you in his name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today for the end of 2 Kings. Mike's going to be back tomorrow. Hope you can join us then. Have a very blessed day in the Lord.