Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 499. of our three-year journey through God's Word. And we come to 2 Kings chapter 12. We're actually going to pick up with the last verse of chapter 11, because I didn't read that yesterday because It's kind of grouped in the ESV breakdown with the beginning of chapter twelve. Anyway, let's pray and ask the Lord to help us as we look to his word today. Father, we are gathered together again as your people. Blessed with another day of life and blessed with another day to spend in your word. Please be our teacher and write your word on our hearts for your glory in our lives. We ask this in Jesus' name Amen. Second Kings chapter twelve, starting with eleven twenty-one. Jehoash was seven years old when he began to reign. In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zibeah of Beersheba, and Jehoash did what was right in the eyes of the Lord all his days, because Jehoiada the priest instructed him. Nevertheless, the high places were not taken away. The people continued to sacrifice and make offerings at the high places. Jehoash said to the priests, All the money of the holy things that is brought into the house of the Lord, the money for which each man is assessed, the money from the assessment of persons And the money that a man's heart prompts him to bring into the house of the Lord, let the priest take each from his donor, and let them repair the house whenever any need of repairs is discovered. But by the twenty-third year of King Jehoash the priests had made no repairs on the house. Therefore King Jehoash summoned Jehoiada the priest and the other priests and said to them, Why are you not repairing the house? Now therefore, take no more money from your donors, but hand it over for the repair of the house So the priests agreed that they should take no more money from the people, and that they should not repair the house. Then Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bore a hole in the lid of it. and set it beside the altar on the right side as one entered the house of the Lord. And the priests, who guarded the threshold, put in it all the money that was brought into the house of the Lord. And whenever they saw there was much money in the chest, the king's secretary and the high priest came up, and they bagged and counted the money that was found in the house of the Lord. then they would give the money that was weighed out into the hands of the workmen who had oversight of the house of the Lord. And they paid it out to the carpenters and the builders who worked on the house of the Lord And to the masons and the stone cutters as well, to buy timber and quarried stone for making repairs on the house of the Lord, and for any outlay for the repairs of the house. But there were not made for the house of the Lord basins of silver, snuffers, bowls, trumpets, or any vessels. of gold or silver from the money that was brought into the house of the Lord. For that was given to the workmen who were repairing the house of the Lord with it. And they did not ask for an accounting from the men into whose hand they delivered the money to pay out the workmen, for they dealt honestly. Though money from the guilt offerings and the money from the sin offerings was not brought into the house of the Lord, it belonged to the priests. At that time Hazel, king of Syria, went up and fought against Gath and took it. But when Hazel set his face to go against Jerusalem, Jehoash, king of Judah, took the sacred gifts that Jehoshaphat and Jehoram and Ahaziah, his fathers, the kings of Judah, had dedicated, and his own sacred gifts And all the gold that was found in the treasuries of the house of the Lord and of the king's house, and sent these to Haziel, king of Syria. Then Hazel went away from Jerusalem. Now the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did, are they not written in the books of the chronicles, of the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? His servants arose and made a conspiracy, and struck down Joash in the house of Milo on the way that goes down to Scylla. It was Josekar, the son of Shimeath And Jehoshabad, the son of Shomer, his servants, who struck him down so that he died. And they buried him with his fathers in the city of David, and Amaziah his son reigned in his place. Yeah, Joash is an interesting king. There's so much to like about Joash and about Jehoiada But then they show themselves to be very human as well, and to be like all human beings, uh sinful and flawed. It reminds me of the old saying that the best of men are but men at best Joash is well instructed by Jehoiada in the law of the Lord, and so he himself does what is right. in the eyes of the Lord all his days. He keeps the law of God according to the instruction that he's received from Jehoiada. And one of the things he wants to do early on is to make repairs for the house of the Lord. But things don't go according to plan. Money's being brought in And it's being given to the priests for repairing the house, but years and years go by without any repairs actually being made. In fact, it's the 23rd year of Jehoash's or Joash's reign, and realize there's no repairs that have been made on the house. Now, why is this? Well, one reason could be priests aren't good at doing carpentry and masonry work. That's not their job. They make offerings and sacrifices and burn incense and and bake loaves of showbread and put them out and offer up prayers and bless the people. And they supervise the worship in the temple. This lesson for us is that not everybody in the church has the same gifts and is called to the same ministry. And I've never been a big fan of churches where the pastor takes charge of the building project and wants to wants to look you know, supervise the building of the new building. That's not really the pastor's job. There should be people in the church, deacons and and lay people in the church. the deacons do the meeting of people's needs and the administration of of the resources of the church. These are different callings. There's people who are giving gifts of the administration and of help and of service, and in this case the priests just weren't called to it. But it's also possible that the priests You know, weren't really good stewards of the money that was being brought in. Uh the money that was being brought in was supposed to be used for this, and I'm not saying that they were out and out corrupt, but just poor stewardship. you know, wasting money on things that didn't really need to be bought because after some time, once Joash puts things into different order, They're able to get the repairs done. So there apparently was enough money to do all of this. Uh it wasn't a great and glorious you know, redoing of the temple as would be done years and years later by King Herod with the second temple, for example, but it is a good, competent repair job of the the basic structure of the temple, which would be hundreds of years old by this time and had fallen into disrepair and neglect because of Ahaziah and um and uh um this you know the bail worship that came in and got higher priority. So this repair work is done. It ends up being done well by honest workers But there's not an abundance of wealth available for making silver and gold vessels for for the temple, which probably should have been done, but the resources weren't there to do it. Although it's interesting The resources weren't there to do it, to make the silver and the gold vessels for the temple, and yet, and yet, when Haziel, king of Syria conquers Gath, which is a Philistine stronghold, and then he's going toward Jerusalem. Jehoash is able. to take all the sacred gifts. Sacred gifts means dedicated to the Lord, set aside for the temple worship, sacred gifts of Jehoshaphat, Jehoram. Ahaziah and his own sacred gifts. So we're talking about the sacred gifts of four kings and all the gold that was found in the treasuries of the house of the Lord. So this repair work had all been done, but there was still Sacred gifts from four kings, and there was still gold in the treasuries of the house of the Lord. He takes all of this and he sends it to Hazel, king of Syria, so that Hazel will leave Jerusalem. alone. He basically says, don't come here and plunder us. I'll give you the plunder if you leave us alone. Your men don't have to die. Our men don't have to die. Here's all the gold. Wow. What do we think about that? Joash doesn't pray. He doesn't go to Jehoiada the priest and say, What should I do? He doesn't consult the Ummum and the Thurium, which was a way of discerning God's will, there's no reference to him seeking the Lord at all. He just does what is politically expedient and what makes sense with the resources that he has on hand. I don't think that's good. I don't think that's right. I think he should have sought the Lord, and maybe the Lord would have given him a guidance to say, march out and oppose Hazel King. Or perhaps the Lord would have said, you know, yes, you should pay him or whatever. But he didn't consult the Lord Lord, that's what we know. And we know that there were not the gold and silver vessels made for the house of the Lord. That money that was supposed to go for that, and the text is very clear to say these were sacred gifts and they were treasuries. They were gold from the treasuries of the house of the Lord. So this was supposed to be the Lord's gold and gifts. to make one thing that could have been used was to make silver and gold vessels for the worship in the house of the Lord. And instead they go to this pagan king who's going to drag them back to Syria to enrich Syria with things that were supposed to be given to the Lord. Not good. Not a good move. And and I think as a consequence of that, um there's judgment that comes. And Joash is overthrown by his servants in a conspiracy, and he's killed, and Amaziah his son reigns in his place. What does this tell us? Well, we should always seek to be faithful to God's will. And sometimes what happens, and I've seen this happen too many times, and as I get older, um I I notice the the need to guard my own heart from these this kind of tendency as well. I've seen too many times people, men of God, who make a good start in the Christian life and who are faithful in ministry even for a long period of time. And then who blow it? Like they walk away, they get caught in a scandal, they they just walk away from the ministry, or they sometimes they walk away from the Lord altogether. Now, Joash doesn't walk away from the Lord, he doesn't walk away from ministry, but he kind of blows it, right? He kind of doesn't really see through to the end everything that should be done for the temple of the Lord, and he instead gives a substantial amount of gold that has been dedicated to the Lord, he gives it to Hazel, king of Syria. And so He doesn't end well, right? And we need God's grace. We need God's preserving and persevering grace to help us finish well. Now Joash's finish is not as disastrous as that of like King Solomon or some others who got into idolatry by the end of their lives, but certainly his end is not as great as the promise of the And so I think we need to look to the Lord and we need to pray for the grace to finish well through every stage of our life. Jesus finished the course that God had set before him, and he is the one who keeps us, and so we need to seek him. and his persevering grace in our lives toward this end. Let's pray. Father, thank you for calling us to yourself. Thank you for setting us apart for your service and for your glory. Would you give us grace by your Holy Spirit to apply the righteousness and the redemption of Christ to our lives day by day, that we might persevere in the faith, that we might be preserved by your grace, that we might endure till the end. with faithfulness and with fruitfulness through all the stages of our lives. We seek this Father for the glory of Jesus in our lives and in his name. Amen. Amen. Well, we'll be back to the book of Acts tomorrow, Acts chapter 18. Hope you can join me for that. Well, as always, have a blessed day in the Lord.