Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 483 And that brings us to 2 Kings chapter 2. And as you can see on the screen from the title for this chapter, this is when Elijah is going to be taken up into heaven. uh one of two people in the old testament who's who's taken up into heaven uh and so he doesn't die he's taken up into heaven heaven supernaturally by the Lord, which is a wonderful conclusion to Elijah's story because we had that time in 1 Kings when he really failed the test. He ran, he asked the Lord to take his life, he gave him to despair. Even when God tried to correct him, he didn't receive that correction well. And yet what did we see? That wasn't the end of his ministry. He took on Elisha as an apprentice. He continued to faithfully serve the Lord. God continued to use him, and now God is saying, well done, good and faithful servant, in this taking. So just as we saw Ahab seem to repent, but really end up in unbelief and rebellion, we saw Elijah fail, but then receive restoration. So that's what's coming here. Let's pray for the Lord to help us in this chapter today. Father, thank you for your love for us. Thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you that your grace is greater than our sin. Your persevering grace overcomes all of our failures, all of our difficulties. So please be at work in our hearts and minds today. By your word, lead us to follow after Christ. We pray in Jesus' name. Now when the Lord was about to take Elijah up to heaven And Elijah said to Elisha, Please stay here, for the Lord has sent me as far as Bethel. But Elisha said, As the Lord lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you. So they went down to Bethel, and the sons of the prophets who were in Bethel came out to Elisha and said to him, Do you know that today the Lord will take away your master from over you? And he said, Yes, I know it. Keep quiet. Elijah said to him, Elisha, please stay here, for the Lord has sent me to Jericho. But he said, As the Lord lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you. So they came to Jericho. The sons of the prophets who were at Jericho drew near to Elisha and said to him, Do you not know? Do you know that today the Lord will take away your master from over you? And he answered, Yes, I know it. Keep quiet. And Elijah said to him, Please stay here, for the Lord has sent me to the Jordan. But he said, As the Lord lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you. So the two of them went on. Fifty men of the sons of the prophets also went and stood at some distance from them as they both were standing by the Jordan. Then Elijah took his cloak and rolled it up and struck the water, and the water was parted to the one side and to the other, till the two of them could go over on dry ground When they had crossed, Elijah said to Elisha, Ask what I shall do for you before I am taken from you. And Elisha said, Please let there be a double portion of your spirit on me. And he said, You have asked a hard thing, yet if you see me as I am being taken from you, it shall be so for you, but if you do not see me, it shall not be so And as they still went on and talked, behold, chariots of fire and horses of fire separated the two of them, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and its horsemen, and he saw him no more. Then he took hold of his own clothes and tore them in two pieces, and he took up the cloak of Elijah that had fallen from him, and went back and stood on the bank of the Jordan Then he took the cloak of Elijah that had fallen from him and struck the water, saying, Where is the Lord, the God of Elijah? And when he had struck the water, the water was parted to the one side and the other, and Elisha went over. Now when the sons of the prophets, who were at Jericho, saw him opposite them, They said, The spirit of Elijah rests on Elisha. And they came to meet him and bowed to the ground before him, and they said to him, Behold now there are with your servants fifty strong men. Please let them go and seek your master. It may be that the Spirit of the Lord has caught him up and cast him upon some mountain or into some valley. And he said, You shall not sin But when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, Send. They sent therefore fifty men And for three days they sought him, but did not find him. And they came back to him while he was staying at Jericho, and he said to them, Did I not say To you, do not go. Now the men of the city said to Elisha, Behold, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my Lord sees, but the water is bad. And the land is unfruitful. He said, Bring me a new bowl and put salt in it. So they brought it to him Then he went to the spring of water, and threw salt in it, and said, Thus says the Lord, I have healed this water. From now on neither death nor miscarriage will come from it. So the water has been healed to this day. according to the word that Elisha spoke. He went up from there to Bethel, and while he was going up on the way, some small boys came out of the city and jeered at him, saying, Go up, you bald head! Go up, you bald head. And he turned around, and when he saw them he cursed them in the name of the Lord, and two she bears came out of the woods and tore forty two of the boys. From there he went on to Mount Carmel and And from there he returned to Samaria. Well, that is 2 Kings chapter 1. Chapter 2. Sorry, Dessay chapter 1. 2 Kings chapter 2. Wow, what a what a chapter. What a powerful chapter. Elisha shows his his faithfulness. He shows he's ready to take up the mantle. God has worked in his heart and in his life, and he is eager to take up the mantle from Elijah, and he is ready to take up the mantle from Elijah. We see this evidenced in many ways. First, persistent faithfulness. Even though Elijah says, oh you stay here, because I'm going to be going a long way. They're walking quite a quite a distance. I'm going to go as far as Bethel. No, as the Lord lives and as you yourself live, I will not leave you. So he follows them to Bethel, he follows them to Jericho, and he follows them across the Jordan to the other side. And when he follows him across the Jordan, the Lord empowers Elijah to to strike the the Jordan and have it be parted. So this of course is a miracle that hearkens back to Joshua. and the crossing of the Jordan to enter the promised land, it signifies this very significant transition in this prophetic ministry. And so they go over and Elijah, seeing Elisha's persistent faithfulness, says, what would you like? What would you like for me to ask? Or what would you like me to do for you? And Elisha just wants a double portion of the spirit of Elijah. It's spiritual power. He wants to take up the mantle. A double portion is what the eldest son would inherit in a family. It would be a double portion of the share of the inheritance. So if a man had five sons, the the inheritance would be divided up into six and the firstborn son would get a double portion and then the others would get three. rest and that's a double portion and but he doesn't want land or money. Elijah doesn't have those things to offer. He wants a double portion of spiritual power, of the anointing, of the ministry, of the calling. And that's a hard thing because Elisha is the only son. So he gets a double portion. It's like Double all of it. You know, he's he's the only disciple here of Elijah. And so that's what he's asking for, and it's It's very, very hard thing, and yet he gives them the sign. If you see me, what I'm taking from you and boy, oh boy, does he see him, chariots of fire and horses of fire separate the two of them. Elijah goes up by a whirlwind into heaven Uh, wow, such a such a vision, such a dramatic, uh uh overpowering uh experience. And Elisha cries out, My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and its horsemen and then he saw no more. And now Elisha knows it's time to step up and step into this new role. So he takes his own clothes, the clothes of the apprentice, the clothes of the learner, of the disciple. And he tears them into two pieces. He's no longer the apprentice. He's no longer the learner, the disciple. He takes up the cloak of Elijah that had fallen. He takes up the mantle of the prophet. And he strikes the water of the Jordan It's parted to one side and the other. And he goes over. Now, this next scene is very interesting because some of the sons of the prophets who were there at Jericho, I mean, they I think, you know, the Lord's kind of unpredictable, and that's true. You can't really know exactly what God's going to do, and that's true. But really what they ask him to do is pretty faithless considering what God had shown them. God had shown all the communities of prophets that this is the time when Elijah is going to be taken up in heaven. And Elisha saw him taken up in heaven. Elisha received the double portion that he asked for. He parted the Jordan and walked through on dry ground. This was very clear. But he gets kind of pressured into, okay, you can go and send 50 guys out. But when they come back after three days, he says, hey, didn't I tell you, don't go? So this shows that sometimes when God makes something very, very clear in His Word, I mean there's a lot of things that are super clear in God's Word. We don't need to doubt and ask, are you sure? I mean, let's test that out. Let's double check and make sure. God says something and God reveals something, it is it is true. Um and now the men of the city say, We've got some bad water here. It's it's been a lot of problems to a lot of people. And Elisha is used by God to purify this water using salt. Now this is A prophetic ministry to be able to bless. And notice it's salt that's being used. That's symbolically significant in scripture of the influence of the gospel, the influence of grace. Right, Paul says, let your speech be seasoned with salt. That means seasoned with grace. Jesus says, you are the salt of the earth. It means you're to be an influence of grace in the world. If the salt loses its saltiness, it's no longer good for anything. So here is a picture of the influence of God's grace. of the covenant also, the covenant of grace, uh there's an expression of of the salt of the covenant uh that's used in Leviticus and in Numbers. Um and so it's A picture of grace, of the covenant of grace, of God's blessing, of God's promises. That's all that's being pictured in this salt. And I know that's a lot of symbolic weight for s simple sodium chloride to carry, but it does. It carries all that weight in scripture. It's very, very significant. God heals. And this is just another confirming sign that Elisha is the Lord's anointed. He is the prophet for his generation. He is the one who's picking up the mantle from the ministry of Elijah. And just when everything seems wonderful and great, we have this weird story with these boys It's a pack of boys. It's a pack of like 50. We see fifties a lot, but we don't know exactly how many boys there are, but we know the she-bear tears 42 of them, so it wouldn't surprise me if there were 50 boys. So this is not just sort of a couple of innocent little kids who are being silly. This is a roving pack of boys, and they're mocking his ministry. Which means this is a just a bad spirit has really spread throughout Israel, and a spirit of rebellion, a spirit of selfishness, a spirit of arrogance, a spirit of mocking God. And so these boys Near Bethel, again, what's at Bethel? The golden calf. Kind of where the whole faithlessness of Israel starts. This rising generation. near Bethel, near the Golden Calf, is showing itself to be just as disrespectful and just as mocking of God and just as uh determined to to reject God's counsel. And so there's consequence. Elisha curses them in the name of the Lord, and two she bears come out. and tear 42 of the boys. Now it doesn't mean that the she-bear killed 42 of the boys, it just means that they the she-bear tore 42 of the boys And so this is a a significant sign of judgment. Just as the salt in the water to purify it is a significant sign of blessing. And notice that blessing is given to a group of prophets of the Lord to a city that's seeking to honor the Lord, here there's a significant curse that's given to those who rebel against the Lord. and who would even seek to threaten and intimidate God's prophet. So what do we see in 2 Kings? Well we see that God is faithful from generation to generation. God maintains a witness in the world. God maintains a ministry in the world from generation to generation. But that witness and that ministry that's in the world is a ministry of blessing and cursing, depending on whether you receive the grace of God in the covenant of grace fulfilled in Jesus Christ, or whether you mock and rebel against. the grace of God in the covenant of grace fulfilled in Jesus Christ. That makes all the difference in the world. Receive the grace of God, you're blessed. God will have his will for you. Mock God, rebel against God, oppose God's ways, and it may make you popular. You may get a crowd of 50 peers Cheering you on. But in the end, you'll be under the curse of God. What is our calling? Our calling is, of course, to seek the grace of God in Jesus Christ. And to seek to be a witness of the grace of God in Jesus Christ. And sometimes that'll be well received, and we can rejoice with those who receive it. Sometimes it'll be rejected. And we can grieve for those who reject it because God's curse will be on them if they do not repent. But we are called, like Elisha, to persistent faithfulness Persistent faithfulness. May the Lord be pleased to grant us that in the name of Jesus, who is the ultimately persistent, faithful one, faithful even unto the death of the cross. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, thank you for being the great prophet, faithful to the end, reigning forever, ruling supremely Help us to follow in your footsteps by your grace. May we take up our cross and follow you and be persistent in faithfulness, even as you were persistent in faithfulness for us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for 2 Kings chapter 2. Tomorrow we'll be back in the book of Acts. Hope you can join me for that. Of course, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord's Today.