Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Church back home, good to be back home from our trip to Israel. It's wonderful to be in Israel. And good to be back home. And We are in 2 Kings 11 today, day 498 of our three-year journey through God's Word as we close in. On our 500th devotional together, coming up in just a couple of days, let's ask the Lord's help as we look at this chapter in 2 Kings together. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, every part of your word, given by your Holy Spirit, for the edification of your people, for the glory of your name among us. Help us to look to you and trust in you. Be our teacher and write your word on our hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, 2 Kings chapter 11. Now when Atheliah The mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the royal family. But Jehoshaba, the daughter of King Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took Joash, the son of Ahaziah, and stole him away from among the king's sons, who were being put to death. And she put him and his nurse in a bedroom Thus they hid him from Athaliah, so that he was not put to death. And he remained with her six years, hidden in the house of the Lord, while Athaliah reigned over the land. But in the seventh year Jehoiada sent and brought the captains of the Kerites and of the guards and had them come to him in the house of the Lord, and he made a covenant with them. And put them under oath in the house of the Lord. And he showed them the king's son. And he commanded them, This is the k thing that you shall do One third of you who come off duty on the Sabbath and guard the king's house. Another third, being at the gate sewer, and a third at the gate behind the guards, shall guard the palace And the two divisions of you, which come on duty in force on the Sabbath, and guard the house of the Lord on behalf of the king, shall surround the king, each with his weapons in his hand. And whoever approaches the ranks is to be put to death. Be with the king when he goes out and when he comes in. The captains did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded, and they each brought his men who were to go off duty on the Sabbath, and those who were to come on duty on the Sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest. And the priests gave to the captains the spears and the shields that had been King David's, which were in the house of the Lord. And the guards stood, every man with his weapon in his hand. from the south side of the house to the north side of the house, around the altar and the house on behalf of the king. Then he brought out the king's son They put the crown on him and gave him the testimony, and they proclaimed him king and anointed him, and they clapped their hands and said, Long live the king! When Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she went into the house of the Lord to her people, to the people. And when she looked, there was the king standing by the pillar, according to the custom, and the captains and the trumpeters beside the king. and all the people of the land rejoicing and blowing trumpets. And Atheliah tore her clothes and cried, Treason Treason! Then Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains who were set over the army, Bring her out between the ranks. and put to death with the sword anyone who follows her. For the priest said, let her not be put to death in the house of the Lord. So they laid hands on her, and she went through the horse's entrance to the king's house, and there she was put to death And Jehoiada made a covenant between the Lord and the King and the people, that they should be the Lord's people, and also between the King and the people. Then all the people of the land Went to the house of Baal and tore it down. His altars and his images they broke in pieces, and they killed Matan the priest of Baal before the altars. And the priest posted watchmen over the house of the Lord, and he took the captains, the Karaites, the guards, and all the people of the land. And they brought the king down from the house of the Lord, marching through the gate of the guards to the king's house. And he took his seat on the throne of the kings. So all the people of the land rejoiced And the city was quiet after Atheliah had been put to death with the sword at the king's house. All right, 2 Kings chapter 11 begins with a very troubling event. It's the one and only time we have a woman who comes in and like overthrows the royal family, the the the Davidic line. So we have a break from the Davidic line. We don't know that much about Atheliah. She was the mother of Ahaziah. She may herself have been a daughter of Jezebel. She certainly is a Jezebel-like character in that she is politically ruthless and violent and vengeful and calculating and she's the mother of Ahaziah who was not a great king and her son died And she didn't want to lose power. And so she wanted to use this opportunity to gain even more power. Uh it it appears that Ahaziah's uh children would have been small children at this time and so not really in a position to challenge her openly and so she sees this as a good opportunity for her to seize power. And so she uh She takes the royal family and has them killed. But Jehoshaphat, the daughter of King Joram, sister of Ahaziah. takes Joash, the son of Ahaziah, and stole him away from among the king's sons. So you have King Joram's daughter, Ahaziah's sister, who takes Joash And basically goes and hides him in the temple. He's hidden in the house of the Lord for six years. So we don't know for sure exactly how old he was when he was hidden in the house of the Lord, but he's hidden there. And then Jehoiada, the high priest, decides that it's his responsibility as one who is anointed of the Lord. So there were three anointed offices, prophet, priest, and king. And each one of those anointed offices had a responsibility before the Lord to seek to uphold and maintain covenant faithfulness. between God and his people. So to make the people of God more covenantally faithful. At times when we were looking at Elijah and Elisha, there was no functioning priest. The king Ahab and others were being very unfaithful, and so it was up to the prophet, Elijah, and then Elisha to sort of uphold that covenant. loyalty between God and his people. And we see Elijah on Mount Carmel, for example. We see Elisha ministering. They're they're seeking to call the people back. to this covenant faithfulness. Well here we see a priest, Jehoiada, who's doing this work in Jerusalem. He knows that with Athaliah being queen that that is not God's will. That is not the Davidic covenant line. That is not in keeping with the law of God. That is not right. Plus Athaliah is a Baal worshipper. So not only is she usurping the Davidic line and putting herself into power, But as a Judean Jezebel, she is encouraging and promoting Baal worship. She so neglects the house of the Lord. That really Joash, who's also called Jehoash in this passage, but we're better known as Joash, he's able to be hidden in the house of the Lord among the priests because Uh Athelaih just doesn't really have much to do with that whole operation. She's more committed, obviously, to Baal worship. So Jehoiada launches a great plan. The Kerites are temple guards. They have armed responsibility to defend the temple of the Lord. And there are shifts of them that would come on and off duty on the Sabbath. They would serve a week-long duty, and there would be three shifts, the third and the third and the third, serving three shifts throughout the day for a week at a time. And so you have them all come together on the Sabbath day because that's the changing of the guards. You have those who were going off duty and those who were going on duty. So you'd have a double uh number and you're getting all of them all at once, all three shifts. So you really have six times as many uh carites armed and present as they would normally be because you have all three shifts and you You have both weekly rotations who are present. And they surround the king, the rightful king, Joash. And they proclaim him to be king. They say, long live the king, and they put the crown on him, which is the rightful duty of the priest to anoint the king. It takes an anointed office bearer to anoint another office bearer. And Atheliah comes out. tears her clothes and cries, treason, treason. But it's not treason, it's actually righteousness. And what she's been doing is treason. So she's calling this treason when really she's the treasonous one. And so they say, don't let her be put to death in the house of the Lord, but rather take her back to the entrance of the king's house and put her to death there. She's put to death, and then Jehoiada the priest says, We're going to have a right covenant. between the Lord and the King and the people. We're going to have a right functioning priesthood, kingship, and people in covenant as the Lord's people, as Yahweh's people. So they go and tear down the house of Baal, they kill the priest of Baal, they cleanse Jerusalem of this idolatrous Baal worship, and they put Jesus Jesus. They put I'm getting ahead of myself to the Jesus part which is coming next. They put Joash in his rightful place as the king. So how does this connect to Jesus? How does this connect to Jesus? Well, Jesus is the ultimate covenant keeper. He is the Christ, the Messiah, the anointed one. He is prophet, priest, and king. He is the one who fulfills in himself covenantal faithfulness between God and his people because he stands as the anointed covenant representative, prophet, priest, and king, the second Adam, the new man, the representative of all of his people, and he was absolutely faithful in all of his responsibilities As king, he rules with justice and righteousness. As prophet, he is the word of God incarnate, who speaks forth the word of God and reveals God and his will for us. And as the priest, he makes intercession for us, offering up his own body on the cross as a sacrifice, and then ever living to the Make intercession for us. He fulfills all these covenant offices, and he's the only one who is perfectly faithful. We also see another thing in that in this passage, we see the temple guards doing what they're supposed to do. which is to guard the temple and to guard covenant faithfulness in Jerusalem. Sadly, in the Gospels, we see the temple guards hijacked by the priest at that time, Caiaphas. to do the opposite of what they're supposed to do, and rather than commending the rightful king, they condemn the rightful king. They go to the Garden of Gethsemane, they lay hands on Jesus and arrest him, they throw him in the pit at Caiaphas's house, they drag him off to trial so that he can be condemned, and they hand him over to the Romans to be crucified. So these temple guardsmen who are functioning righteously in this passage functioned unrighteously. when it came to Jesus. But even in functioning unrighteously, they were actually being used by God providentially to carry out his will for his people and to provide salvation. So God gets his way in the end, despite human sin. And just like Atheliah thought that she could thwart God's will by claiming uh the crown for herself, so Caiaphas thought he could thwart God's will by having Jesus put to death, but in both cases they were frustrated in their desires And God's will was done in the end. God's will is always done, and what we need to do is cooperate with it and support it and try to be faithful to it and not fight against it, because we never win when we fight against God. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your perfect will that is fulfilled in Jesus Christ our Savior and that is carried out day by day in your providential supervision of your people and our lives. Would you watch over us and keep us in your care today? We pray. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. All right. Well, thanks for joining me for 2 Kings chapter 11. Tomorrow we are going to move on to chapter 12. As always, sincerely, I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord as you follow His will and not your own.