Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 1072 and we come to 2 Peter Chapter 3, let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, and thank you for the book of 2 Peter and for this last chapter that the Apostle Peter ever wrote We thank you for it. We pray that you would write it on our hearts and help us to hear you speaking to us and calling us to faithfulness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. 2 Peter 3. This is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved, in both of them. and stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder that you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles, knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own sinful desires. They will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. For they deliberately overlook this fact, that the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and through water by the Word of God. and that by means of these the world that then existed was deluged with water and perished. But by the same word, the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire. being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. But do not overlook this one fact, beloved. That with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promises as some count slowness, but he is patient toward you not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. But the day of the Lord will come, like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved And the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn. For according, but according to his promise, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found in him. without spot or blemish, and at peace. And count the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you according to the wisdom given him as he does in all his letters when he speaks in them of these matters. There are some things in them that are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction, as they do the other scriptures. You, therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people and lose your own stability, but grow. In the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen. That is 2 Peter 3. The day of the Lord will come. We've seen this. We've seen this in Zephaniah. We've seen this in other prophets, Isaiah and Daniel and We we see that the day of the Lord is real and it's coming. Jesus spoke of it now. There have always been scoffers. There have been scoffers who said things like, There's one school of thought. Jesus and the early apostles believed that Jesus was definitely going to come again during their own lifetime. And since he did not, they were in error, and therefore the Bible is in error. That's one accusation. On the other side, there's a group of people, false teachers. According to the second chapter we looked at a couple days ago, false teachers called preterists. The teaching of preterism is a teaching that says Jesus has already come again. He came again on A. D. 70 when Jerusalem was destroyed. That was the great day of the Lord. That will surely come. That's what Peter was prophesying about. And that's what came. Both of those perspectives are just wrong. And 2 Peter 3 is really the best answer to both of them. Remember, way back in Zephaniah, it was the day of the Lord is near and hastening. The great day of the Lord is near and hastening. But it wasn't fulfilled when Jerusalem, Jerusalem was conquered and Judah was carried off into Babylonian exile. It wasn't fulfilled when the Philistines were conquered, or Moab and the Ammonites were conquered, or when the Assyrian Empire was overthrown and Nineveh was destroyed. It wasn't fulfilled in any of those things. Even in AD 70 it wasn't fulfilled. Those were foreshadowings, those were anticipations, those were sort of the appetizers or the samples of what's coming. But what's coming is something that is so clear. The heavens will be will be burned up. The heavenly bodies will be burned up. They'll be replaced by a new heavens and a new earth. Preterism says that this creation continues, but paradise is where you go when you die. That's not no. Peter people had died, believers had died before 2 Peter 3. And they had gone to paradise. They had. Stephen went to paradise when he was stoned to death as the first martyr of the church. He saw heaven open, he saw Jesus standing to receive him. The Apostle Paul was caught up to the paradise of God, and he could not utter those things. Believers, when they died, they went to paradise ever since the resurrection of Jesus. I think before that they went to a place that's called Abraham's bosom or um a a waiting place in Sheol. But ever since Jesus opened, smashed the gates of hell, opened the way to paradise, believers who've died in the Lord have always gone to paradise in their souls. But our bodies need to be resurrected, and this this creation is not going to continue This creation will pass away with a roar. The heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved. The earth and the works done on it will be exposed. And that certainly did not happen in A. D. 70. And it will happen when the Lord Jesus comes again. Jesus is coming again. And to say, well, it's been so long and they were expecting it during their time Peter here is saying, the Lord's timing is not our timing. With the Lord, one day is a thousand years, a thousand years is one day. One of the things that drives preterists is the idea that Jesus said his coming was near. Well, Zephaniah said the day of the great day of the Lord was near. Near for the Lord is relative. It's only been a couple of days since Jesus ascended back into heaven. What if he waits a week by the Lord's timing, right? And it's 7,000 years before he comes back, or 6,000 years before he comes back. We don't know. We don't know. It could be within our lifetimes, but it could be thousands of years from now. We don't know. But God is faithful, we know that. And God is not slow to fulfill his promise. As some are prone to say that he's slow. No. He's not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. That's the reason, 2 Peter 3. 9 He's not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance, because once the day of the Lord comes, there's going to be no more salvation. Those who are saved will be brought into the new heavens and the new earth. There'll be no more evil, there'll be no more fall. So think about like me or my kids. What if Jesus had come back in the first century? We wouldn't exist. This creation stops. The redeemed, the countless multitude of the redeemed, are brought into the new heavens and the new earth, where there is no sin and where righteousness reigns forever. So I wouldn't have had an opportunity to come to repentance in faith. My kids wouldn't have had an opportunity to come to repentance in faith. So the Lord is patient. He's not slow, he's patient. Because he wants the full number of his children to come in. When the full number of his children come in, and we don't know what that number is, we don't know when that's going to be, then he will come again. In the meantime, how do we live? Let me just pick up two ideas to close with. First of all, we ought to live lives of holiness and godliness. Holiness, dedicated unto God, godliness, growing in Christ-likeness. And then the final word is we should grow. In the grace and knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. So while we patiently wait, While we trust in the patience and goodness of the Lord, we need to live lives of holiness and godliness and grow in the grace. and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So we need to live different from the world, not attached to the world. All these things are going to be burned up. We need to grow in our in the grace of the Lord Jesus. And the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. We need to live for him because he's coming again for us. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word and your promises that are precious and true. Thank you for 2 Peter. Help us to grow in grace and in knowledge of Jesus our Lord. Help us to live lives of holiness and godliness. For your glory alone, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. That is 2 Peter chapter 3. We are going to move on to another minor prophet tomorrow. Hope you can join me. Have a blessed day in the Lord.