Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and on day 1070, we're back to the New Testament, back to 2 Peter. Chapter 2. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we love you. We thank you for your word. We need you to speak to us today. Put us on our guard and help us to be aware of the presence of false prophets and false teachers within your church. Help us to be discerning and wise. Lead us by your Holy Spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 2 Peter chapter 2. But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies. even denying the master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction. And many will follow their sensuality And because of them the way of truth will be blasphemed, and in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle. and their destruction is not asleep. For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment if he did not spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness with seven others, when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly. If by turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes he condemns them to extinction, making them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly. And if he rescued Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked, for that righteous man lived among them day after day. He was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard. Then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials and keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment. and especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise authority. bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the glorious ones. Whereas angels Though greater in might and power, do not pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord. But these like Irrational animals, creatures of instinct, born to be caught and destroyed, blaspheming about matters of which they are ignorant, will also be destroyed in their destruction, suffering wrong. as the wage for their wrongdoing. They count it pleasure to revel in the daytime. They are blots and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions while they feast with you They have eyes full of adultery, insatiable for sin. They entice unsteady souls. They have hearts trained in greed, accursed children. Forsaking the right way, they have gone astray. They have followed the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved gain from wrongdoing, but was rebuked For his own transgression, a speechless donkey spoke with human voice and restrained the prophet's madness. These are waterless springs and mists driven by a storm. For them the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved. For speaking loud boasts of folly they entice by sensual passions of the flesh those who are barely escaping from those who live in error They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves to corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome, their last state has become for them worse than the first. For it would have been better for them never to have known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them. What the true prophet says has happened to them. The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire. This is 2 Peter chapter 2. Now when we get on the topic of false teachers, we need to be careful. There's kind of two extremes that we need to stay away from. The one extreme is just a broad kind of tolerance. that doesn't want to condemn anyone for anything that they say or believe. But it's just like, you believe that, that's good for you. God bless you. Have a wonderful day. Everybody's great. There's a lot of that in the broader culture, but I sometimes think that within Bible-believing uh circles, we sometimes fall into the other extreme, and that is that anyone who disagrees with us Over a point of doctrine or a point of cultural application, anyone who disagrees with us we condemn as a heretic and a false teacher. When Peter speaks about false teachers here, we need to be careful to understand what he's talking about. Denying Those who saved them, the one who saved them. Greedy, sensual In the early church, you had Judaizers who would say that Believing in Jesus is not enough for salvation. You also need to keep the Jewish dietary laws and be circumcised because you have to be an observant Jew. Not perfectly, but at least in terms of being circumcised and keeping the dietary laws and the festival days and the feasts, you need to be observant. Or else you're not saved. The book of Galatians condemns that approach entirely. There were also those who believed that because you were free in Christ, You could have sex with whoever, whatever, prostitutes, other people's wives, whatever. It doesn't matter. Because you're free in Christ. That is wrong. That's the sexual immorality that's spoken of here. There were also those who kind of mixed pagan idolatry with the worship of Jesus, and they would go to pagan temples and they would also worship Jesus. And so these are major errors. What I'm saying is these are major errors. Like, so for example, I'm a Presbyterian pastor in the PCA, which is the conservative Bible-believing, you know, it's one of the conservative Bible-believing Presbyterian denominations. It's not the main line. which has denied the Bible a long time ago. Within our circles, you know, we we practice covenant child baptism. We baptize the infants of believers at at uh when they're very young, because we believe God made covenant promises to believers and to their children. We believe that households were baptized in the New Testament and that these households almost certainly included children. And that just as children were circumcised and brought into the covenant community, so they're baptized and brought into the covenant community in the New Testament We have Baptist friends who totally disagree with us on that. They think you can only be baptized as a believer by immersion. And I disagree with them, and they disagree with me. But neither one of us are false teachers or heretics. Neither one of us. Because we we believe in the Bible, we preach the gospel, we love the Lord, and we have a sincere disagreement about a matter of interpretation. Anglican brethren, who have bishops and archbishops, I don't agree with that hierarchical form of church government. It's not biblical. And I would make the case very strongly that having bishops and archbishops and a hierarchical form of church government is not a biblical way to do it. The Bible lays out elders and deacons a plurality of elders in local congregation and then those elders connected regionally. I believe that Presbyterian church government is biblical church government. But I don't condemn Anglican brothers as false teachers or heretics. We need to have some grace to understand that Men of good conscience, faithful to the scriptures, can disagree about certain points of doctrine without being false teachers, without being condemned. Now there are boundaries, however. We reach these boundaries when you start denying that the Bible is the Word of God, and you start picking and choosing which parts of the Bible you think are relevant and which parts are not relevant. so that you are standing in judgment over Scripture rather than allowing Scripture to judge you. Now this is different. different from using Scripture itself to interpret Scripture and discerning things like Taking Galatians and understanding that circumcision, although when it was given to Abraham, was given as an everlasting covenant It's changed form and is now administered by baptism in the New Covenant Age, and that the dietary laws were temporary and the judicial laws were temporary. Because because Jesus said they were. He pronounced all foods clean in Mark 7. He said, My kingdom is not of this world. He did not seek to establish an earthly kingdom with earthly laws and earthly rulers. That's that's not New Testament Christianity. So you can use scripture to interpret scripture and understand how certain things apply to the lives of believers, but that's different from saying This is the word of God and this isn't the word of God. This was just an opinion of men, and I'm going to decide which for myself. That's that's what almost basically all the mainline churches have done. The Episcopal Church USA, the PC USA, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the United Church of Christ, the United Methodist Church, they've all done that. They've all said The Bible is not really the Word of God, and we're going to pick and choose. And so that's why you see them celebrating same-sex unions. and ordaining homosexual pastors and bishops because they don't think that what the Bible teaches about homosexuality is relevant anymore. It's it's outdated, it's it's it's passe, it's not the word of God for us anymore today. Well, no, they don't get to decide that. God's moral standards don't change because the culture changes. You don't get to do that. There's a whole nother category of false prophets who are greedy and exploit you with false words. Verse 3. Paul speaks of these in 1 Timothy 6 when he says that they are it's godliness without contentment, it's godliness as a means of financial gain. These are the prosperity preachers The ones who tell you that it the faith is the key to unlocking earthly prosperity. A great life, a blessed life, your best life now. It's garbage. It's false teaching. It's not the gospel. And then there's, you know, there's other categories that we could talk about. I Islam in many ways is just a a a corruption of Christianity. Um and it's based upon a false prophet. Uh Mormonism, the Church of Latter-day Saints, LDS, is false false religion based upon additional books of the Bible and a false prophet's of Joseph Smith and Brigham Young who were not prophets of God and Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants and Prolagate Price are not scripture. So they've added to Scripture, just like the Quran's been added to Scripture. These are clear false teachings. The Roman Catholic Church is clearly a false church because they've they've made the authority of popes and councils equal to the authority of the Word of God. In fact, they've said that the authority of the Word of God is given to it by the church, which is horrible to say. And then they've added all sorts of doctrines, the perpetual virginity of Christ and the purgatory and transubstantiation and all sorts of stuff that are not in the Bible that they just heap on because of church tradition. That's false. So we need there are boundaries. There are boundaries of what is actually false. And those false teachers, particularly the ones who work their way in and corrupt the morality of the church and the faithfulness of the church, they will be judged. I remember hearing years ago about a woman who went on a Presbyterian church PC USA retreat. That's the mainline church. That's the one that doesn't believe in the Bible. She went on a PC USA retreat. And the woman pastor who was leading the retreat They fell in love and this woman left her husband and then ended up entering into a same-sex union with the woman pastor who was leading the women's retreat. Here you have a lesbian woman pastor. who is leading retreats for women and picking out a woman to draw her away from her husband. That is evil. That is evil and will be judged on the day of judgment. But so is, you know, stories we've heard about youth pastors who lead retreats and target teenage girls. That's evil, and they will be judged. Or pastors who commit adultery with women in their flocks, who come to them for help and are vulnerable. That's evil, and they will be judged So, corruption in the church is something that God takes seriously. And in many ways, if we're overly rigid, And we're calling everything false teaching and heresy because we just disagree with something. some point of application or some secondary doctrine, then then what we're actually doing is we're we're training people not to have discernment over what are the big issues. And and were undermining the faithfulness of the church, swatting at gnats and swallowing camels, as the Lord Jesus accused the Pharisees and the scribes of his day of doing. So, the warning against false teachers is to be taken seriously. But we need biblical discernment to take it seriously. We need to know what God's Word says. We need to know what are the major issues that God's Word condemns, idolatry, syncretism, sexual immorality, greediness. Manipulation, exploitation, pride, and we need to see that when when those things come in and they corrupt and undermine the gospel, whoa. Call it what it is. Call a spade a spade. And you hear me on these devotionals, I just tell it straight. I am faith. I am trying my best to be faithful to the Word of God. I don't pull my punches. I don't play politics. I'm just trying to call it straight. Because that's what I'm called to do, because I believe I'm accountable to the Lord Jesus, and I believe that I will stand before him and be judged for how I handled his word. And that means I can't I can't play games. I can't pretend like something is what it isn't. No. The Word of God, the people of God, the Kingdom of God, the Son of God, these things are too precious and too important to mess with. So, may the Lord be gracious to make us faithful. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are good, you are gracious, you are faithful, you are true. Lead us to walk in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. Lead us to be discerning about false teachers and the corruption they bring into the church. Lead us to be your holy people, faithful in word and deed. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thanks so much for joining me for 2 Peter chapter 2. We're going to go to another minor prophet starting tomorrow, the prophet Haggai, which is a post-exilic prophet. So Haggai is prophesying after the return from the Babylonian exile. That's on tap for tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.