Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemel and I'm from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And we are back in the New Testament, back in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, dealing with this very mysterious figure from the New Testament, the man of lawlessness. Let's pray for wisdom because we need it. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. It's perfect in every way, and it's exactly what we need to trust you and to live the life you call us to live by the power of your Holy Spirit working in us. So would your Holy Spirit please write this word on our hearts and help us to be discerning and wise and faithful in Jesus' name. Amen 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask brothers. that you not be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Let no one deceive you in any way, for that day will not come unless the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told you these things? And you know what is restraining him now, so that he may be revealed in his time For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way. And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth, and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming. The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan, with all power and false signs and wonders, with all wicked um sorry and with all wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refused to love the truth, and so be saved. Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned. who did not believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. So then, brothers, stand firm And hold to the traditions that you were taught by us either by our spoken word or by our letter. Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace, comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. That is 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. And this man of lawlessness is a very, very mysterious figure. So from the very beginning of the church. It seemed that through traditions that were handed down from the teachings of the Lord Jesus and the teachings of the earliest apostles, there was this knowledge Perhaps even coming from Daniel and other places, because Jesus himself references Daniel and the abomination of desolation standing in the temple. So that might be part of this background of what brings this teaching, but it it seems to already be in the mind of the early church that there's going to be this man of lawlessness, this son of perdition uh this evil figure who's going to come into the temple or come into the church and is going to oppose God and worship and exalt himself and proclaim himself to be God and want to be worshipped, this figure, right? Sometimes he's called the Antichrist. I think that is not a biblically accurate name for him, although I myself very often slip into calling him that, because it's just been such a commonly used name. The reason why I say that's not a biblically accurate name for him is that the only place really in the New Testament where we see the word Antichrist is in 1 John. And first John has said there are many Antichrists in the world, and then whoever denies that Jesus has come in the flesh, those who've particularly those who've walked away from the church, those who went out from us but were never of us That's anti-Christ. And there are many of those apostates who deny Jesus and who lead others astray. Those are anti-Christs. And there are many of them, and they've been around since the very beginning Well, close to the very beginning. There were many of them around when John wrote 1 John, you know, almost 2,000 years ago. But this man of lawlessness Is not has not been revealed. The rebellion has not come yet. Right? That day, the day of the Lord Jesus coming again, will not come unless the rebellion comes first. and the man of lawlessness is revealed. This is an argument, by the way, also against preterism, which is a false doctrine and a heresy that is plaguing some parts of Reformed Christianity. Because very clearly Paul is saying here that the day of the Lord has not yet come. And it will not yet come until these things happen. And because still these things have not happened, we have to say, still, though we're 2,000 years later, and it's supposed to be soon, and always has been soon, we have to say that the day of the Lord has not yet come. So we are waiting for the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, and we are waiting to be gathered together with him. That is yet future, and it is part of our glorious future hope. But who is this man of lawlessness? Well, we have to say we don't know, because he hasn't been revealed yet. Seems to be that he's going to be some sort of deceptive prideful, self-exalting ruler who's going to restrict worship and who's going to oppose the worship of God, who's going to insist on being worshipped himself. So we've seen people like this come up in history, whether that's, you know, David Koresh or Reverend Moon from you know David Koresh from the Branch Dividians or Reverend Moon from the Unification Church or Jim Jones from Jonestown, whatever. these messianic figures who declared themselves to be the Messiah or the second coming of Jesus or whatever, right? We've seen people like that, but they're not they're not big enough, they're not powerful enough. They don't hold enough sway to really qualify for being this figure. It does seem to be that before Jesus comes again, A figure will rise in the world, whether he'll be a political leader or religious leader or both, and he will oppose The right worship of God, and he will proclaim himself to be God. Now, what's interesting is the reformers in the 1500s and 1600s, if you had talked to Protestant reformers and you asked them who this man of lawlessness is, they would have said it was the Pope. The Pope in Rome. Because he proclaims himself to be the vicar of Christ And to be sitting on Christ's throne, right? In the seat of St. Peter, but as the vicar of Christ on earth, as the head of the church on earth. Now that is wrong. That is not an accurate way to understand this, but you can see it could be a religious figure or a political figure, and really the Pope is both of those things. And certainly in the 1500s and 1600s, the Pope was the number one reason why Christians were dying and being persecuted and the true gospel was being violently opposed. So I can understand why they thought that, even though they were incorrect. But he is being restrained now, verse 6. And this will line up with when we get to Revelation 20. And we'll talk about the thousand years. There is a thousand year period of time described in Revelation 20 when Satan is being restrained. He's being bound. And that is what is happening now, I believe. I am an all-millennialist, which means a now millennium. The millennial reign of Christ is happening now in the church age. Satan and the man of lawlessness are being restrained now, and when the one who's being restrained is no longer restraining, right? When he who now restrains it will do so until he's out of the way, until he he removes that restraint, right? Uh, I believe that means that Satan is bound now. How is Satan bound now? Doesn't seem like he's bound. Yes, he's bound. Don't you notice that In every nation around the world, there is a church of the Lord Jesus Christ, and there are hundreds of millions of followers of Jesus in the world. And don't you know that before Satan fell from heaven like lightning and before he was bound, he was able to deceive all the nations so that for two thousand years of the history of God's people from Abraham to the resurrection of Christ and Pentecost at two thousand year period of time, there were almost no believers outside of Israel, and even within Israel there was only a holy remnant, so you had One small nation and only a small portion of that nation that were the only believers in the world. And now there are believers on every continent, there are believers uh all over the world, in every nation There is a church worshiping Christ. That is the work of the Holy Spirit, and it is also the work of Satan being restrained. But there will come a time of rebellion, a time of falling away, a time of apostasy. Jesus warned against it. A time of delusion. And that is when the man of lawlessness will be revealed, whoever he is. It's yet in the future. It will be with power and false signs and wonders and wicked deception for those for those who are perishing. So there's going to be this charismatic figure, this lawless one who's gonna pull everybody who's not a believer, who doesn't follow Christ, will be under a strong delusion and will be taken away from uh from what would otherwise have been an openness to the gospel. But what's the message for us? The message for us is to stand firm. Whether this comes in our lifetime or not, it might come in our children's lifetime, it may come in our grandchildren's lifetime, it may not come for a long time, we don't know. But what we already do is to stand firm. We are to hold to the traditions that were taught to us in the scriptures. Right? The letter, we have this letter from Paul, we have 1 Thessalonians from Paul, we have all the letters from Paul and Peter and James and Jude. And John, and we have the Gospels, and we have the Book of Acts, we have Revelation, we have the whole Old Testament. We need to hold on to these things. We've been chosen by God. We've been sanctified by the Spirit. We believe in the truth. We've been called by the gospel to obtain the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we need to stand firm. And as we stand firm, to help us stand firm, there's this benediction, this good word that wraps out, closes out 2 Thessalonians 2. where Paul wishes and blesses and says, May our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father who loved us and gave us Eternal comfort and good hope through grace comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. So how can we stand firm? We can stand firm because God comforts our hearts and establishes them in every good work and word. And this is where our focus is. Our focus is not to be on speculation that says, is Vladimir Putin the Antichrist? is Joe Biden the Antichrist. Right? This is my life. I've lived just about fifty years and I've been a you know follower of Christ for all of my adult life and back into my high school years and I've been paying attention to things and I can't even tell you the number of people who within my lifetime were thought to be, well, maybe he's the Antichrist, maybe he's the Antichrist. And we don't need to speculate. That's not what we're called to do. We're called to this. Stand firm, hold fast. Do what God's called us to do. Live the gospel, share the gospel, be the church, and we can do that because God comforts our hearts by the gospel and establishes us in every good work and So let's do every good work and word that God gives us to do and not live in fear or speculation. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for the hope that is ours in Christ, that is unshakable. If we have been chosen, if we've been called, if we've been sanctified. If we've been given eternal comfort and hope in the gospel, we are secure and we are established by you. We're established by you so that we will be engaged in every good work and word. So help us to walk in those things, focused on your glory, focused on the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, focused on building up your church until Jesus comes again. We thank you and we praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.