Salvation is by God's grace alone from beginning to end. We're turning this morning to Romans chapter nine. Romans chapter 8 is of course a favorite chapter in the Bible for many, including me. It's wonderful, worshipful, ends with this beautiful, stirring Declaration that there's nothing in all creation that can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. And then we come to Romans chapter 9, and it's quite a shift. Yesterday I was uh listening to audiobook, a novel that was recommended to me recently, and I've just been loving this novel. Um it's one of my favorite uh books I've listened to in in years, uh really beautifully well written, but yesterday a very sudden plot twist came and it was very hard. And like I'm driving To go pick up Catherine and I'm out out loud in my car saying, no, no, no, no. And I really thought I was just going to start crying, and it was just and We get that in Romans 9. Even as Paul just finished saying, nothing in all creation will separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Listen as we begin Romans 9. to the deep anguish and the heartache that now suddenly comes in. This is the Word of God, Romans chapter 9. I am speaking the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit that I have great sorrow and increasing anguish in my heart. For I could wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh. They are the Israelites, and to them belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants The giving of the law, the worship, and the promises, to them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen. But it is not as though the Word of God has failed, for not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel. And not all are children of Abraham because they are his offspring. But through Isaac shall your offspring be named This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise. are counted as offspring. For this is what the promise said, about this time next year I will return, and Sarah shall have a son. And not only so, but also when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac, though they were not yet born and had done nothing, either good or bad. in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works, but because of Him who calls, she was told, the older will serve the younger. As it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? By no means. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy. For the scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. So then He has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. You will say to me then, why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will? But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Will what is molded say to its molder, Why have you made me like this? Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use? What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience? vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, in order to make known the riches of his glory, for vessels of mercy which he has prepared beforehand for glory even us. whom he has called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles, as indeed he says in Hosea, those who were not my people, I will call my people And her who was not beloved I will call beloved. And in the place where it was said to them, You are not my people, they will be called sons of the living God. And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel, though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will be saved. For the Lord will carry out his sentence upon the earth fully and without delay. As Isaiah predicted, if the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring we would have become like Sodom and become like Gomorrah. Let's pray. Father in heaven, there is glorious truth in your word. Sometimes that truth is hard for us to understand or to receive. But when you speak the truth, you always do so in love for your people and for the glory of your name. So we pray that you would speak to us this morning and that we would receive the words that you have for us and the truth that you have for us. And that we would give you thanks for it, and that we would glorify you in it and through it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Charles Spurgeon, the great nineteenth century uh English preacher Has been called the Prince of Preachers, one of the finest preachers of God's Word in the history of the church. Well, he was once asked what a Calvinist is. And he replied, He is one who says, salvation is of the Lord. I cannot find in Scripture any other doctrine than this. And certainly the Apostle Paul and the rest of Scripture would wholeheartedly agree with this assessment that salvation is of the Lord. It's exactly what the redeemed multitude from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation sing around the throne of God in Revelation 7 verse 10 they sing salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb It's a biblical doctrine. And this truth brings comfort and assurance to us as believers as we struggle with sin, we struggle against our old nature, we're engaged in this continual, irreconcilable war between what we know is right and what we want to do in our hearts and what we are still doing in our flesh, and we we f are full of doubt and and Lacking hope and assurance, this comes in and gives us assurance that those whom God foreknew, those whom He set His heart on in love before the world began Those whom he foreknew, he also predestined, and those whom he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, also glorified And as we learned last week, that gives us the great assurance that if we have indeed been called to faith in Jesus Christ, if we've been justified by faith in Jesus Christ, It is only because God has foreknown us and has predestined us, and therefore our glorification, while a future experience for us, is already an accomplished reality in the eternal decrees of God. It is finished. Our salvation is complete because of God's grace from beginning to end. However The more you reflect on this, it can make you very thankful for your own salvation as you realize more and more I had nothing to do with it. I was dead in my sins and trespasses. I was walking away from the Lord and the Lord had mercy on me. But it can cause you some personal anguish when you know people and you love people who are close to you. And they do not know the Lord. They are not saved. And this is what Paul is dealing with as we come in the transition from Romans 8 to Romans 9. From the triumphant assurance that there's no separation from the love of God in Christ Jesus, Paul turns and as he thinks about his fellow Jewish people, as he thinks about his fellow Israelites He realized that the vast majority of them are not believers. When Christ came among them, John 1 tells us he came unto his own people, and his own people did not receive him. He was rejected. He was despised and rejected by the very people of God who had been given the promises of his coming And by Paul's day, decades later, Paul is one of a small number, relatively speaking, of Jewish believers. And the rest of the Jews, the vast majority of them, are not believing. They're not saved. And so Paul speaks with this great sorrow and unceasing anguish in his heart. It gets so bad that he even says, I could wish that I myself were accursed. and cut off from Christ. He just got done glorying in how there's no separation from the love of God in Christ Jesus. He's like, I am so heartbroken about the state of my fellow Jews, I am so heartbroken about the state of my fellow Israelites. that I would wish, I could even wish, that I were just condemned forever and cut off from the love of God in Christ and without hope if it meant that they would be saved. But they're not. He goes through all the privileges that the Jewish people have had. To them belong the adoption. Well God said in the Old Testament, Israel is my son. And out of Egypt I have called my son. To them belong the glory. The Shekinah glory of God appeared to the Israelites. As they were leaving Egypt and as the law was given and as the tabernacle was built and as the temple was dedicated The covenants, we're doing covenant theology in Sunday school. The covenants were given to Abraham To Moses, to David, the unfolding of the covenant of grace took place among the people of Israel The giving of the law. They were the one ones who were told what the character of God is like and how to live before God. The worship, the promises, the patriarchs. And, by the way, this is one of the most powerful statements of the deity of Christ in the whole Bible. To them, from their race according to the flesh is the Christ. Who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen. So if someone say, well, the Bible never clearly says that Jesus is God, it says so right here. The Christ is God over all, blessed forever. Amen. It's right there, pretty plain. Jesus is God. So He's got all this, like all these benefits and all these blessings, and yet most of them Don't believe. Paul's passionate language here and and all that he rehearses here in these opening verses It it tells us things that we need to keep in mind. There's at least three things that I think we get from these verses that that should shape how we think, how we live. First of all We need to remember that doctrine, like the doctrine of election, it is never cold, abstract, or impersonal. If someone can recite to you all of the sound biblical doctrine in an orderly and a systematic way, but it It feels like they're reading out of the phone book or they're reading, you know, they get more excited about what's on the special menu at their favorite restaurant. You gotta think there's a disconnect here. Do you really believe that these things are true? Because if you really believe that these things are true, they will move you deeply. They will change your heart. At the heart of our theology, of course, we believe that God is love. And the summary of the law is that God, who is love, calls us to love. We're to love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. We're to love our neighbors as ourselves. He is the God of love. We are to be a people of love. And because Paul does love his fellow Jews, he is moved deeply when he reflects on their lost condition. And that leads to the second thing that we should get from this. Not only should doctrine move us deeply, but Paul's language here absolutely contradicts anti-Semitism of all kinds. There is no way to be a biblically faithful Christian and to be anti-Semitic in any way, shape, or form. The Israelites are blessed by God. Doesn't mean they're saved, but they're blessed by God. And Paul's own deep love here for his fellow Jewish people is profound and heartbreaking. He lost everything. You have to understand, Paul lost everything in an earthly sense when Christ saved him. He could not go back to Jerusalem where he was once you know a star of a a rising student with close personal connections to the Sanhedrin, being taught by the most famous rabbi in all of Israel, Gamaliel, and you know, he was just a brilliant young up and coming star within the Jewish circles, and now he couldn't even go back there when he does finally go back there openly. He's going to be arrested and put in prison and they're going to try to kill him. Like he's lost it all. And yet he's still. You don't find him here talking about how it's the Jewish people who are responsible for the death of Christ Or if the Jewish people are all cursed by God forever. No, he speaks warmly of the privileges that they have enjoyed, and he speaks in a heartbroken way of their lost condition. The third thing, though, on the other side, just as this language out uh rules out anti-Semitism of all kinds, it also rules out the idea that all Jewish people are automatically going to be saved in the end because they are physical children of Abraham through Isaac. There's no way in the world Paul would say I could wish myself accursed and cut off for Christ for the sake of them if they were all going to be saved anyway. Why would he even say that? It doesn't make any sense And there has been a school of thought within Christianity that says, well, Christians get in by believing in Jesus, but Jewish people get in because they're descendants of Abraham. And there's even uh sort of a story told among among Jewish rabbis over the years that Abraham sort of sits at the gates of hell uh to make sure that none of his offspring go that way and if any of his offspring are going that way he stops them and says, oh no no you don't belong here you go over there and they go into uh the the kingdom. That's not true. There's no automatic salvation for Jewish people. There is no way for anyone to be saved but by faith in Jesus Christ. And that is why Paul is in deep anguish, because the Jewish people are not believing in Jesus Christ and so they do not have salvation. Another thing, I said there were three, but there were four. Preachers do that all the time. Isn't that annoying? Anyway, another thing it that we should get from these opening five verses is that you can be, and listen to this, children, young people. You can be greatly spiritually blessed. You can receive the Word of God, the truth from God. You can come from a godly lineage and heritage. And none of that is going to save you if you don't have faith in Jesus Christ personally. You must come to believe in Jesus, to trust Him for your salvation. No one's going to get into heaven because of who their parents were or who their grandparents were. But in verse 6, we come to, I think, what is the real heart of this matter. Paul here anticipates an objection. You can see it in how he writes verse 6. but it is not as though the word of God has failed. You see, he's anticipating an objection. If the vast majority of Israelites Are lost. They are not believing. They are not going to end up in heaven and in the new heavens and the new earth and the restored creation with God if they're condemned Then the Word of God failed because God promised to save them. Right? Paul says, no, wrong. And in many ways, the rest of this whole section of Romans 9, 10, and 11, which is kind of a whole unit The rest of this whole section, Paul's going to be unfolding for us why it is that it can be true that the vast majority of Jewish people are not saved, and yet the Word of God has not failed. And it is of deep personal relevance to us in the light of what just came in Romans 8, because if God's made all these precious promises to us, if God has predestined us, if God has called us, if God has justified us, If there's no separation from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord, but if the word of God can fail, then what hope do we have? Yeah, God has said it. Yeah, God means it. But He said great promises to Israel, and He meant those too. And if they failed, then what hope do we have? So it's very important that Paul is beginning here an answer which is really going to stretch to the end of chapter 11. It is not as though the Word of God has failed. And the first reason he gives for saying that the Word of God has not failed is for not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel. And not all are children of Abraham because they are his offspring. And you might think, well, that's weird. That's odd a language. Not all are Israel because they're Israel? Not all are his children because they're his offspring? What does that even mean? Paul is laying out for us here that it is not a natural descent. It is not a physical birth. It is not a family lineage or a national identity that matters. It's those who've been given the promise and those who have believed the promise. That's what he's saying. Isaac had two sons, Jacob and Esau. While Jacob and Esau were still in the womb, before they had ever been born, before they ever did anything right or wrong, God said to Rebekah, there are two nations struggling in your womb. And the older will serve the younger. And it's not because Jacob was such a great guy, I mean If I'm the dad and I'm picking which of these two to give my blessing to, I'm kind of sympathetic with Isaac that I'd probably want to give it to Esau. Because Jacob is kind of a scoundrel. The Bible doesn't hide that fact He manipulates his brother into selling him his birthright for a bowl of red stew after his brother has been out working hard hunting to serve the family and Jacob's just hanging around in the tent So you can be sympathetic to Isaac wanting to give the blessing to Esau and not to Jacob, but that was wrong. Isaac was disobedient in wanting to do that because God had already pronounced that the blessing belonged to Jacob. God said it. And it's it's later, verse 13 by the way, as it is written, Jacob I love, but Esau I hated, that's that comes hundreds of years later through the prophet Malachi that that word comes. That's not something that God told to Isaac and Rebekah. Here, loved and hated means I chose Jacob, I did not choose Esau. So it's the promise And it is the sovereign promise, the promise of a God who chooses. That is how the Word of God is kept. At this point, you might be tempted to pull back. Your heart might recoil in you. I mean we are we are Americans. We believe in equal opportunity and equal rights and you know entitlements that are equally given to everybody. And so we might pull back and say, that's just not fair, and it's not just Americans, because these are Romans 2,000 years ago, and that's the anticipation of the objection that Paul has. Is it fair? So look at verse 14. What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? That's what he's saying. What shall we say then? Is God being unfair that he would choose Jacob and not choose Esau? And Paul gives this very strong response that he's given multiple times throughout Romans, by no means. It's the strongest negative you can come up with in the Greek language. Absolutely not. God forbid, no way. Perish the thought, no. There's no way there's injustice on God. And then we start getting to why there's not injustice on God, for he says to Moses, I will have mercy. on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God who has The reason why it's not injustice is because we're not talking about justice here. We're talking about mercy and compassion. What do we know about mercy and compassion from God? It is not earned. It is not deserved. It cannot be earned. It cannot be deserved. So you can't talk about God being unjust or God being not fair when He's giving something freely from the heart that People don't deserve and can't earn. It it's it's a story kind of like this. Storytime. There was a great king. The great king ruled over a vast kingdom, but his kingdom rebelled against him. They took up arms. They said, we don't want you to rule over us anymore. And they attempted a big coup, and they failed. And what the king did in response to this insurrection, this rebellion, this treason, they were ready to kill the king and everybody in his family and take things over for themselves. And the king defeated them. And he judged them and he put them into a giant prison labor camp where they were to live out their lives. in condemnation for their just punishment that they deserved for the treason and the rebellion that they willingly did. Now, being in this prison camp. They do not repent. They are not sorry for what they did. Instead, they spread lies about the king. They tell all sorts of falsehoods about him, and they continue to plot rebellion against him, all of them, even while they're imprisoned. The king, meanwhile, continues to provide for them because he actually cares for them. And so he's the one who's giving them food, he's the one who's giving them water, he's the one who's giving them a safe place to live, he's the The one who's taking care of their needs every day and instead of showing gratitude all they do is grumble and tell lies about the king and continue to plot rebellion against him And the king says, this isn't good. This isn't a good state of affairs. What I'm going to do is I'm going to start bringing some people out of this prison camp. I'm going to bring them out and I'm going to relocate them. And I'm going to re-educate them. I'm going to help them to see what I'm really like. I'm going to ship they've heard all these lies about me. They've been part of this treasonous rebellion event. I'm going to show them who I really am and what I'm really like. And so I'm going to take them out of the prison camp I'm gonna absolve them of all their crimes. I'm gonna release them from the sentence of condemnation that they've been under. I'm gonna Teach them who I really am. In fact, in fact, I'm going to go so far as I'm going to bring them into my house. And I'm going to make them part of my family, and I'm going to give them an equal share in my inheritance. Now, if the king decides to do that for three hundred people within that camp. Because he's that good, he's that gracious, he's that merciful. Does that mean he owes it to everybody who's a part of that rebellious camp of treasonous rebels? No. He didn't owe it to anybody. The fact that he gave it to anybody is shows how compassionate it is It shows how merciful it is, shows how gracious he is. He doesn't then in turn owe it to everybody else who's still in rebellion against him, and that's what mercy and compassion are. And we're given some hints here in the examples that are used by Paul. First of all, he talks about Pharaoh. He says, verse 17, Scripture says to Pharaoh, For this purpose I've raised you up, that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. So that he has mercy on whoever he wills and he hardens whoever he wills. Sounds like the only reason why Pharaoh was drowned in the Red Sea while the Israelites crossed through on dry land. The only reason it sounds like is just because God decided to harden his heart, because God wanted to show that he was greater than Pharaoh. And that sounds a little bit cruel, except When you read the book of Exodus, Pharaoh was not an unwilling participant in this story Because the book of Exodus does tell us that God hardened Pharaoh's heart, but it also tells us an equal number of times that Pharaoh hardened his heart. God's sovereignty does not negate human responsibility, but it does give hope in the face of human responsibility. In other words, Pharaoh made his choices. Pharaoh decided he wanted to keep these slaves. Pharaoh decided that he wanted to keep oppressing them. Pharaoh decided He wasn't going to give in to any of the plagues. Yes, God hardened his heart, but he also hardened his heart. Both things were true. God was sovereign and Pharaoh was responsible. But the truth of human nature is such that if God didn't have mercy, if God didn't have compassion, we would all be lost and we would all be condemned because that's the way we would all choose to go. We see the same thing with the illustration of cannot a potter make from the same vessel, from the same lump of face, sorry, some vessels for honorable use and some for dishonorable use. We get imagery of the potter in the prof the prophet Jeremiah, and the potter is shaping the clay. And the clay that doesn't cooperate with the potter, the p the clay that is warped, he then throws away or decides to reshape. So the potter is sovereign, but the clay also responds to the potter's touch. And ultimately it's only the grace, it's only the patience of the potter that allows that clay to become anything other than waste But Paul knows that many people are still not going to like this idea that that God is sovereign over all. So he says in verse 19, why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will? If those who believe believe because God chose them to believe, and if those who don't believe don't believe because God believes, didn't choose them to believe, then why is God finding fault with anyone? For who can resist his will? And the answer here is one that we don't like, but we need to accept it. Verse 20, who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Will what is molded say of its molder, Why have you made me like this? Who do we think we are to challenge and question the sovereign decisions of the God of the universe? This is kind of what God said to Job. When Job was complaining about sort of how unfair it was that he was suffering and he didn't really deserve it and can't he present his case before God? God shows up and God basically says, unless you know everything I know, unless you've done everything I've done Don't think that you can question me or challenge me. This is way beyond your pay grade. And ultimately, even the Apostle Paul has to stop short of really giving an answer-answer here. Instead, he's asking questions and he's giving hypotheticals. The language here is really important. Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use? You have to say, well, yeah, I guess he does have that right. And so then he says, what if Paul himself admits that he's speculating here. What if? What if God, desiring to show his wrath and make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy which he has prepared beforehand for glory. So there's two things we see here in Paul's what if. First of all, the fact that he's using the language of what if under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit means he doesn't really know the full answer. God hasn't given the Apostle Paul like the exhaustive explanation for why he does things this way. Why do you think he hasn't done that? Why do you think the apostle that God didn't just at this point Give the Apostle Paul the exhaustive explanation of exactly why he does things this way. It is probably for the same reason that when I get home this afternoon, I am not going to teach algebra to my dog. And if you're insulted by that, let me tell you, it would be easier for me to teach algebra to my dog than for God to explain all of the purposes and reasons that He has for everything that He ordains to us. We cannot even begin to comprehend the ways of God. Which is where this whole section at the end of Romans 11 is going to end. With just praise to God because He's so far beyond us. But even in this what-if section, notice where the emphasis is. The emphasis In order to, that's the purpose statement there in verse 23, in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy which he has prepared beforehand for Glory. You think about that for a minute. God's purpose in all of this, his primary purpose is not really the condemnation of the wicked. His primary purpose is to show to you and to me. The riches of his glory, for vessels of mercy, that's us, which he has prepared beforehand for glory. That's God's purpose. He chose you. If you're a believer in Jesus, he chose you to have mercy on you. So that you would be able to partake of his glory We are destined to share forever in the glory of God. We don't even know what that means. It's just words, but it's beyond human imagination. No eye has seen, no ear has heard, nor has it entered into the imagination of man what God has prepared for those who know him. God's prepared us for glory, and the only way for us to be prepared for glory is for God to have mercy on us. For God to redeem us, and that's what he's done. All of the children of Abraham As well as all the children of Adam, every human being who's ever lived on the face of the earth except one, the Lord Jesus, all of us, we deserve condemnation How many of you? Raise your hands, this will be a participatory part. How many of you Have ever known very clearly what God expected you to do in a given situation, but you did not do it. Raise your hand. You knew what God expected you to do in a given situation, but you did not do it. Okay. How many of you in a given situation knew what you were not supposed to do, but you did it anyway? Okay. What did we all just confess to? We're all guilty. We all deserve condemnation. The Bible says the soul that sins will surely die. The wages of sin is death. That's what we've earned. That's what we deserve. The fact that He has mercy on us to prepare us for glory is amazing grace. How sweet the sound. He has had compassion and mercy on a countless multitude from every tribe, tongue, people. and nation. Abraham does indeed have as many children as the stars in the sky and the sand on the seashore. When we are gathered together in heaven, there will really be a multitude that no one can count. Because that's how gracious, that's how merciful God is. And we can't we can't go there and say, but it's not fair because you didn't save everyone. The fact that anybody is there is amazing grace. God intervenes. And God is even more inclusive in his intervention than what the people of Israel thought. You see, the people of Israel thought they were the chosen people, and they, as ethnic Israel, were going to be saved. But instead, God said, no, it's the children of promise who are the children of Abraham, and that's going to be a far more vast and inclusive multitude than what you thought. When God doesn't meet our expectations, it's because he has something greater in mind, not something less. And even within Israel, Paul says, there is a remnant that's chosen by grace. And we will get to that next week. But God has a vast multitude from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, and even within Israel, He has a remnant chosen by grace. It's what Isaiah said, verse 27, though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will be saved. But if the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring, we would have been like Sodom, we would have become like Gomorrah. In the end, the people of Israel didn't deserve anything different from God than what Sodom and Gomorrah received. So if they get something better where there are, you know, you know you have many Many Jewish brothers and sisters in the world, Jewish background believers. They're believing in Jesus. They're trusting in the Lord. We're going to see them in heaven, and they're Jewish by birth. That's God's grace. That's the holy remnant. That's the grace of God. So how do we respond to this doctrine of election in this passage? If you're having a hard time with it, I understand. I get it. It's natural if you're having a difficult time with it. You should know that the great PCA Bible teacher, R. C. Sprohl. probably the most famous PCA pastor teacher of the Bible the last 50 years when he first, as a believer, when he first read Romans 9, do you know what he did? He took his Bible and he threw it across the ring. He didn't want to hear it He said it took him five years, after becoming a believer, it took him five years of wrestling with Romans 9 before he finally submitted to the text. And said, God is God, and I am not. So if you're wrestling, you're in good company. But in the end, if you do wrestle with God, we know who wins. Because he is God. I think the best response that we can make to this doctrine Is humble gratitude and earnest pleading. It both involve us being on our knees before God, who is sovereign and holy. We get to our knees, and first, in humble gratitude, we say, Thank you, Lord, that you had mercy on me. It wasn't because I was smart enough. It wasn't because I was good enough. It wasn't because I tried harder. It wasn't because my parents loved me more. It was because you had mercy on me, thank you, because if you had not had mercy on me, I would have been without hope. I would have been lost. I would have been like Sodom and Gomorrah. Thank you, Lord. And then earnest pleading. For those whom you know and love and they don't know the Lord, stay on your knees and plead for their salvation, because salvation belongs to the Lord. And you keep praying. And you keep praying because you don't know what God's going to do. He answers prayers. He answers Augustine, one of the greatest, most influential believers in the history of the church, Augustine, his mom Monica was a believer. She pled with God in many tears for many years. As Augustine took a mistress and had a child by that mistress and lived a very sinful lifestyle, she kept pleading with God through many tears. And finally, God saved him at the age of 32 and then used him to bless the church that we still benefit from the blessing of Augustine's writings. You might say, well, the person I'm praying for is past the age of 32. I've been praying for a long time. George Mueller. Great man of faith and prayer. He ran an orphanage in England in the 1800s. Never asked anybody for money, just prayed and trusted God to provide. He prayed for the salvation of three close friends of his who were unbelievers They kind of supported the ministry, but they kind of kept it a distance and they didn't really want to hear what he had to say. He prayed and he prayed and he prayed and it wasn't until after he died That they all three of them came to faith in the Lord in their late 70s and early 80s. So keep praying. We need to be on our knees in humble gratitude, and we need to stay on our knees in earnest pleading because salvation belongs to the Lord. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are the God who saves You are the God who hears. You are the God who responds. You are the God who moves You use our prayers toward that end. The one who ordains the salvation of lost sinners also ordains the prayers of the saints to be the means that will be used for that salvation, as well as the preaching of the word. to be the means that you will use to save lost sinners. You're the God who saves. Thank you for saving us. And we pray for those we know and love. I have people in my own family, people I love dearly, who do not know you. We pray that you would be gracious and that you would bring them to yourself. That you would bring them out of darkness into light, out of imprisonment, into freedom, out of condemnation, into adoption, as your children. Children. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.