Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to have you with us as we begin our uh seventh week together, right? And um we're here in week seven. We're coming today to question number seventeen as we continue working our way through the Heidelberg Catechism. This set of 129 questions and answers that was birthed out of the Reformation as there was a desire to have unity and clarity of instruction. in what ultimately will lead us to gospel comfort. We get to gospel comfort by moving from guilt through grace to gratitude. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the comfort that you give us in Christ Jesus our Lord. We pray that you would speak to us through your word, by your spirit today That you would build us up in Christ, that we would have a deeper appreciation for our Savior, a deeper love for him, and a stronger loyalty to him. We pray this all in Jesus' name Amen. Alright, we are on question 17 today, but first we're going to review questions 15 and 16. So we're we're considering this idea that we need a mediator and a deliverer because we're guilty. and our guilt deserves the everlasting curse and wrath of God. And satisfaction must be made either by ourselves or by another, and we can't make it ourselves, and no mere creature could make it for us. So, what kind of mediator and deliverer must we seek? And the answer to question 15 we looked at a couple times ago was one who is a true and righteous man. and yet more powerful than all creatures, that is one who is at the same time true God. So a true and righteous man who is at the same time true God is the mediator we need. And then we asked, why must he be a true and righteous man? Well, he must be a true and righteous man because the justice of God requires that the same human nature which has sinned should pay for sin. He must be a righteous man because one who himself is a sinner cannot pay for others. So he must be a true man Because it's man who's guilty, it's man who sinned, and it's man who must pay for that sin. And a righteous man, because he can't be a sinner or he would have to just die for his own guilt. and couldn't save anyone else. So then the question becomes, why must he be at the same time true God? He must be true God, so that by the power of his divine nature He might bear in his human nature the burden of God's wrath and might obtain for us and restore to us righteousness and life. This is such a helpful and clarifying answer. Tells us a lot about our mediator. He's true God. And by the power of his divine nature, by the power of him being God, he then is able to bear in his human nature the burden of God's wrath. And this this is why why the God man Only God has the power to be able to bear up under the wrath of God. But only a human being can justly receive that wrath in the place of other human beings as a representative and a head. So Jesus has then two natures. He has his divine nature and he has his human nature. And his divine nature is all-powerful and able to bear what his human nature has to bear, and that is the burden of God's wrath. It's a mystery at the heart of our faith that Jesus Christ is true God and true man. That means he has a divine nature and he has a human nature. We see this in Isaiah 9. 6, one of the most beautiful verses in all the Bible. We see it a lot at Christmas time and Advent time. For unto us a child is born. To us a son is given. That's his human nature. He is a child who is born. A son given, son given. This is a hint of God is giving us his only son. And the government shall be upon his shoulder. Who can bear up under the government of the universe? No mere man, as we will see. The government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Now, wonderful counselor, you could say, is just one who is Wonderfully wise and wonderful here conveys the idea of miraculously. He's miraculously wise in the counsel that he gives. That could be someone who's a human being only. I mean, Solomon was wonderfully wise. People came from all over to hear from him and they would have said, Oh, he's a wonderful counselor. But this one is even more. Miraculously so. Mighty God, now there is his divine nature, everlasting Father. You know, every king in the ancient world was father-like in his care, his provision for and protection of his people, but we have a mediator who is an everlasting father. whose fatherhood of us as our provider and protector never ends. That requires a divine nature. He is the Prince of Peace, the one who makes peace, and the one who himself is our peace. It's beautiful. We see the human nature and the divine nature of our mediator here in Isaiah 9. 6. Nahum 1. 6 asks, who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the heat of his anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken into pieces by him. This picture of the strength and fury of the wrath of God makes it clear that no mere human being, no mere creature can bear up under the wrath of God. Rocks are broken into pieces by him. And then we're not talking about little tiny rocks. We're talking about huge, big old rocks. God just shatters everything by the heat of his anger. This is why the mediator must be true God. Here's another verse. It's one of the truly beautiful verses in all of Scripture, a gospel summary like no other. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. That says it. This is one who is God, because he's coming from the Father. He's the only Son of God, therefore he is God, but he's given, given into the world as a man. So that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. And we don't perish because he took our punishment upon himself. And our final verse for today is Hebrews 1. 6. I preached on this for our Christmas Eve sermon this past year. And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, Let all God's angels worship. Him. Well, it's the firstborn of God. He's brought into the world though as a human being, and the angels are told to worship him. Angels only worship God. Angels will not worship a creature. They will only worship God. And God would not command angels to worship a creature. So the firstborn who's brought into the world is true God. So we have a mediator who is a true and righteous man and who is true God. He's a true and righteous man because only a human being. can justly pay for human sin. And only a righteous man is pure in himself and able to pay for others. But only God Has the divine nature able to bear up under the wrath of God, and yet a human being must bear that wrath? So here's the mystery. Our mediator, our deliverer must be true God and true man. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, what an awesome deed, the incarnation of the Son of God as a man. How can the eternal, infinite, holy, holy, holy God take on a human nature? Become truly human. It's a mystery beyond our understanding, and yet it is clearly revealed in your word. And it is our hope and our salvation. And so we thank you for it. Let us live by faith in this mediator. It is in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again as we continue our study through the height of our catechism. Let's respond as we've been doing by worshiping our God together. Oh great God, O'Sheaven, O killed by my lonely heart. Own it all and reign supreme, conquer every rebel power, let no vice or sin remain. I resist your home. Have love and purchase me. Make me yours forever. I was blind by my sin, had no ease. To make no choice not know you're not within have no taste for hell's choice then your spirit Gave me light, opened up your word to me. The gospel of your son gave me endless soul. Okay, yeah. Help me now to live a life that's dependent on Christ. Change my heart and guard my soul from the evil that I face. You are worthy to be great. Where my every door can be, Oh great God, O highest hand, glorify your name, your worthy. You are ready to be praised with my every little family. You are worth me to be praised with my everyone. My every story You are worthy to be praised with my restorand. Oh great God. Of highest heaven, glory by your name to me.