Turn with me please to Isaiah forty-two. Isaiah forty-two, our focus for today is on verses ten through seventeen. But I am going to pick up with verse 1 and read verses 1 through 17. So verses 1 through 9 that we looked at last week is the servant song. It's the Lord singing. About his servant, and then to his servant. And now in verses 10 to 17, the Lord is calling the whole world to sing, to join in this song. Let's hear God's word, Isaiah 42. Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard in the streets. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth and the coastlands wait for his law. Thus says God, the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and what comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it, and spirit to those who walk in it. I am the Lord. I have called you in righteousness. I will take you by the hand and keep you. I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon and the from prison those who sit in darkness. I am the Lord, that is my name, my glory I will not give to another, nor my praise to carved idols. Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I now declare Before they spring forth, I tell you of them, sing to the Lord a new song, his praise from the end of the earth You who go down to the sea and all that fills it, the coastlands and their inhabitants, let the desert and its cities lift up their voice. the villages that Kedar inhabits. Let the inhabitants of Selah sing for joy. Let them shout from the top of the mountains. Let them give glory to the Lord and declare his praise in the coastlands. The Lord goes out like a mighty man. Like a man of war. He stirs up his zeal. He cries out. He shouts aloud. He shows himself mighty against his foes. For a long time I have held my peace, I have kept still and restrained myself. Now I will cry out like a woman in labor. I will gasp. and pant, I will lay waste mountains and hills and dry up all their vegetation. I will turn the rivers in fr into islands and dry up the pools. And I will lead the blind. In a way that they do not know, in paths that they have not known, I will guide them. I will turn the darkness before them into light, the rough places into level ground These are the things I do, and I do not forsake them. They are turned back and utterly put to shame Who trust in carved idols, who say to metal images, you are our gods. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, what a powerful word. Your word is living and active. It is sharper than any two-edged sword. And by your spirit, it penetrates, it cuts. It exposes and it brings healing and life. Would you please do the work that you alone can do in our hearts? Would you please work in us that which is pleasing in your sight? This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Group singing has always been a powerful and regular part of the human experience and of human cultures. It used to be a much more vital part of the human experience and human cultures until fairly recently. For centuries, generation after generation, people singing together as a group would create and strengthen bonds of common identity and common And so people would sing folk songs together in in pubs and in feast halls. Bands of warriors would sing battle songs together before getting into battle. Families would gather together for Christmas and Easter gatherings and sing hymns around the piano or or gatherings that were just social gatherings would involve someone playing the piano and groups of people singing together. We we as as human beings, we were made to sing and we were made to sing together with people in a group. And what's interesting is that has been almost entirely lost in our culture since the advent of professionally recorded music. that we can listen to that way. Now if you host a party, you might put together a playlist, right? I'm sure Joel puts a lot of thought into playlist that he's going to have And that's fine, but we're just listening, right? We're just listening to the music. We're not singing those songs together, right? And it's sad. And even more recently, now we have noise canceling earbuds and headphones. And so we just We just isolate ourselves and we have the music just for us and nobody else can even hear it and we can't hear anybody else either. And these are technological advances, but I'm not sure that they are societally good advances. In fact, I'm pretty sure that they're not societally good advances. Because they isolate. And there are some exceptions to this trend. And probably the only one that's really common comes from going to a concert. And people still will go to concerts, pop music concerts, and some of them, like Taylor Swift and Beyonce, when they go on tour, it becomes a a multi-billion dollar endeavor. And people will travel hundreds of miles, people will spend hundreds of dollars, people will because they want to go and they want to be with a large group of people who all know the same songs and who all sing the same songs and they sing them together and of course the music's so loud that nobody can really hear themselves singing but but I remember you know I've been to some concerts um Andrew and I went to a 21 Pilots concert uh about a year and a half ago or so and Tyler Joseph, the lead singer of that group, uh, he he would start he would start with the first line and then and then he would just turn it over to the arena and the arena would sing the rest of the verse. Um, because everybody knew every word and every line and exactly how it went. And if you talk to people who go to big concerts like that, they they come away describing them in glowing terms like a transcendent religious experience. There are some cases where they actually are very explicit about it and they make it into a religious experience. Travis Scott, who's a very famous rapper and probably my least favorite artist in the world today, actually makes his concerts into satanic rituals. So that it's satanic worship at his concert. It's not a surprise that it was at one of his concerts that people were trampled to death. There's this tie between singing and group singing and passion and desire and worship because they're hardwired into our soul. We were made to sing, we were made to worship, we were made to gather together and sing and worship. And if we're not going to gather together and sing and worship the Lord, we will gather together and sing and worship someone or something other than the Lord. It is just part of being human. By the way, on a positive note, that's one of the reasons why I love our hymn sings. And they're so wonderful, because we get together and we sing. And we sing our songs that identify us as the people of God. And we lift our voices together, young and old, and we are united, and it's and it's encouraging, it's empowering, like very few other things. Several years ago, I remember hearing a well-known pastor at a pastor's conference, and he said, as he has pastored churches over the years, he has learned that if God is really working In the life, particularly of a man in the church, one of the ways that you will see God's work in his heart manifest is that he will start to really sing on Sunday morning. You'll see a man who before, maybe he would have the hymnal open and sort of be looking or mumbling. And he lifts up his head and he starts singing. And he said, that's when you know the Lord's really at work. And I don't know if it's an infallible sign, but it makes sense. Because we do sing our passions. We do sing. It's music, it's the food of the soul. It is the voice of the soul. Um and so What is the song that your heart sings? What is the song that your heart sings? What is it that really just grips you and says, yes, that resonates with the deepest part of me Is it the national anthem? Is it some song that you remember from your childhood? Or is it the worship of God? When you come to worship on a Sunday morning, are you eager to sing praises to the Lord from the heart? Or are you just sort of going through the motions? Does it take a little bit of time for you to get into the singing because there's so many distracting things in your mind? and and you're not sure and you're just sort of going along. Well last week we heard the Lord sing. The servant song. We read it again this morning. This week, what we hear is the Lord calling upon the whole earth to sing a new song. And as we'll go through this, we'll see what the new song really is, is for us to join in singing about the Lord, about the salvation that God brings, about the thing that He's doing. There's a connection between these The servant song and this invitation to sing in that what is the servant come to do? What does Jesus come to do? Well, he comes to bring forth justice to the nations, verse one. He comes to faithfully bring forth justice, verse 3. He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice. in the earth and the coastlands wait for his law. Verse 4. So Jesus is coming to do this worldwide mission. that to the ends of the earth, in all the lands, in all the earth, in the farthest coastlands, he's going to bring forth justice. And we learned last week that the way he brings forth justice is by dealing with that which causes injustice, which is our sin. He brings salvation. And he brings salvation to the whole world. And then at the very end of the servant song passage, verse 9, behold the former things have come to pass. And new things I now declare, before they spring forth I tell you of them, and then sing to the Lord a new song. So one of the questions we think when we the Bible tells us multiple times sing to the Lord a new song. You can read it in many of the Psalms. Other places might think, what is what does that mean a new song? Does that mean we should only sing hymns that were written this year? Is is the new song, the album that just dropped on Spotify this week, is that the new song we should have all learned? The new 21 Pilots album, which is very interesting. Sing that? No. That's not a new song. A new song doesn't necessarily mean a song that was recently written, although it's not It's not not that, but it doesn't necessarily mean that. What it means is a song that is celebrating the new things that the Lord now declares. What are those things? Well, those things of salvation. It's the work of the servant of the Lord in the Lord Jesus Christ of coming and bringing salvation to the world. So we should connect the new song to the other new things that are promised by the Lord. In this passage, it's the new thing that God's doing, and that's the servant of the Lord coming and accomplishing what God has given him the mission to do. The scripture promises us a new heart, a new life, a new covenant, a new heavens and a new earth, a new name. These are all aspects of salvation Of the redeeming work of God through Jesus Christ. And so a new song is really a song that celebrates the saving work of God in Jesus Christ. It's a salvation song. And so in that way, when we sang earlier in the service, Praise to the Lord be Almighty, right? Hast thou not seen how thy desires have been granted and what he ordaineth Ponder anew what the Almighty will do. Right? If that's a song that was written in the 1500s, and it's based upon Psalm 103, which was written a thousand years before Christ, but it's a new song. Especially, I'll put it this way, especially if we sing it with a newness, a vigor, a gratitude Because we realize that not only has Christ brought in the new covenant, and not only have we received the gift of salvation, but his mercies are new every morning. And God is always doing new things in our lives, new ways of showing us mercy, new ways of saving us. In other words, He has saved us And he is saving us. And he will continue to save us until he finally saves us. Follow me? So a new song, a song of salvation, celebrates, oh happy day, right, when Jesus took my sins away. But also, his mercies are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. Our God and our help in ages past, our hope for years to come. Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. So we should sing The songs of salvation, the new songs in a new way throughout our lives, and it's been that way throughout the redemptive history of God's people You know, the first time we ever see a new song being sung, I believe, is the first time we have any congregational uh worship recorded in Scripture. I've shared this with you before in a sermon, see how much you're paying attention Does anyone remember? What is the first time in the Bible that we have congregational worship from the people of God recorded? Hmm. It's in Exodus 15. It is after passing through the Red Sea, safely on dry land, and then watching Pharaoh's army get drowned. On the safe side of the Red Sea, having been brought through that salvation, we read this: Exodus 15. Then Moses and the people of Israel sang this song to the Lord, saying, I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea. The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him, my father's God, and I will exalt him. The Lord is a man of war. The Lord is his name. That's the first new song, and it's the first congregational worship, and it really is the identifying moment. It's the moment when God's people become really the nation of Israel, the people of God brought out of the house of bondage, brought through the all the series of events of Passover, but then that wonderful, glorious Exodus where they are now out of Egypt. Egyptian armies drowned, they're safe on the other shore, they praise the Lord. The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation. Like the national anthem of Israel. They're repeated several times in Scripture. And that's really kind of the heart of a new song. If you fast forward all the way to the end of redemptive history The last place, we see the people of God gathered together to sing explicitly praises to the Lord. is in Revelation. It's actually in Revelation 19 And I heard what seemed to be the loud voice of a great multitude in heaven crying out, Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God. For his judgments are true and just, for he has judged the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with her immorality. And has avenged the blood of her servants. The blood of his servants on her. And then once more they cried out, Hallelujah. And then once more in verse Verse five. Praise our God, all you his servants, you who fear him, small and great. And then look at this marriage supper of the Lamb, Revelation 19, verse 6. Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and exalt and give him the glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. It was granted to her To clothe herself with fine linen, pure and bright. This is the history of God's people. The history, the redemptive history of God's people, is a history of a singing people. Who sing how great God is and how wonderful his salvation is from the Exodus to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Every stage along the way. There were songs that were sung when the kingship was established in David, the great psalm singer of Israel. There were songs that were sung when the temple was dedicated. There were songs that were sung when they were brought back from the exile to Babylon There are songs that were written by the church when salvation was accomplished through Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit was poured out at Pentecost. We have in the New Testament there are there are songs that they the early church sang. And so this has been the history of the people of God. They sing. They sing. And each within the periods of salvation It's been the pattern of God's people to write and sing songs when God works in our lives in a particular way. So Psalm 40, written by David. David's known the Lord for years by this time, but he says, I waited patiently for the Lord, he inclined to me. And heard my cry. He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog, and set my feet upon a rock, making my steps secure. my mouth a song of praise to our God, many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord. Can we think of some some of the modern hymns that have been written? You know, a lot oftentimes they're inspired by a moment of great salvation, by a great deliverance. You know, It Is Well With My Soul was written after uh Horatius Bafford lost his his daughters on uh a boat ride from uh uh America to England and they they were sunk and lost at sea and his wife was saved alone and she s telegraphed him and he went over the sea and the captain of the ship ship said this is where the boat went down and this is where your daughters are at the bottom of the sea. Here, and he looked at the sea and he said, You know, when peace like a river attendeth my way, or when sorrows like sea billows roll, whatever my lot thou hast taught me. To say it is well, it is well with my soul, because there was a need in that moment for his soul to receive comfort from God, and God comforted his soul. Or John Newton, one of the great hymn writers in the history of the church, was a slave trader and and and and uh Really a despicable man, but when the Lord saved him and brought him to himself and then brought him out of the slave trade and put him in the pasture, he could write Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch. like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found, was blind, but now I see this has been the pattern of God's people. So I think it's, you know, we should sing. We should sing songs of salvation. We should sing together. We should sing loud. We should sing with joy. We should praise the one who has saved us and praise him for the ways that he has saved us. And I think that new song and the pattern that we get through scripture of continually each new generation writing new songs and singing. I think it's ironic that there are people who um and you know they have they have strong convictions and In many ways I admire them for that, but there are people who think that all we should sing is just the Psalms. They say we have 150 Psalms in the middle of our Bible, and that's sufficient, and we should only sing that. Like, well, but the Psalms themselves would actually encourage us to continue to write and sing new songs as we experience God's saving work in our lives. And so There are new adaptations of old psalms that are really, really good, but there are also new psalms that are really, really good. As long as they're focused on Christ and celebrating salvation, we should sing them. Um I think of the old song that we learned when we were kids, make new friends and keep the old. One is silver and the other gold. Right? I think of that with hymns and psalms and spiritual songs. songs right sing new songs and keep the old one is silver and the other gold because God's still working and there are still new songs to be sung. But who is to sing these new songs? Well, everyone and all the earth Sing to the Lord a new song, his praise from the end of the earth, you who go down to the sea and all that fills it. See here is the Mediterranean Sea, and it I in the world view of ancient Israel, that reaches to the end of the world, because if you go to the other end of the Mediterranean Sea, you reach what was called Tarshish or Spain And that's basically the end of the world. If you go beyond that, it's nothing but ocean. They, you know, as far as they knew, that was the end of the world. And then it's the desert and the cities. So that's going in the other direction. So from Israel, you head out to the west and you end up, you know, crossing the sea to the far coastlands. If you head out to the east, you end up in uh in the desert villages and that's what the the the villages of Kedar and the habitants of Silah, those are places that are in the desert that is uh to the east of Israel. The point here is that just as God's servant, the Lord Jesus Christ, comes to bring salvation to the whole world, the whole world should be joining in the worship of God as they receive salvation. I've shared this quote with you before, but it's one of my favorites. The opening of John Piper's great book on missions, let the nations be glad. He opens up his book on missions by saying missions is not the ultimate goal of the church. Worship is. And missions exist because worship doesn't. So the goal of missions is to gather in new worshipers. Right? And it's one of the reasons why I love reaching Africa's Unreach, because they get that the idea is missions is not about counting converts. It's about making disciples, which is making new worshipers of God. It's it's expanding the choir of the redeemed until it truly is a countless multitude from every tribe, tongue, people, and A nation. When when we are gathered in for the marriage supper of the Lamb, there will be a sea of people as far as the eye can see And they will be of every type and variety of people that's ever lived in the face of the earth, every shade, every color, every height, every every type, every tribe, every tongue, every people, every nation will be represented there, and we will Sing! And we will sing, and it will be glorious. It'll be the greatest hymn sing in the history of the universe. It'll be so thrilling and so wonderful. So, at the heart of what it means to be a Christian, right? is to be a singing, sending, missions, worship-driven people A people who are thankful to the Lord for the work of his salvation, who want to sing that from our hearts, and who want to tell other people about it so that they can come in and they can sing it too. We ought to be much, much better singers and good news spreaders for the glory of King Jesus than Swifties are for the glory of Taylor Swift. Ever talk to a Swifty? And we'll tell you how wonderful Taylor Swift is and the different generations of her music and The different and and how great the concert is and how it was so worth it and all this kind of stuff. And they're just they're just bubbling with an enthusiasm. And like if they can get that excited about Taylor Swift Can't we get more excited about King Jesus? And the songs that He's given us to sing and how wonderful it is to be able to know Him. And because his songs are telling us the greatest news that the world has ever heard, and that is that the King of Heaven has sent his son to rescue us from sin and death and from sorrow and shame and from this broken and fallen world And it doesn't just give us a moment of escape for a night when we go to a concert. It gives us eternal life and eternal joy and reconciliation with God and new life that will never end. And so who is to sing is all the people of the earth, and what we're to sing is a new song of salvation, and how we're to sing is given to us here as well, and that is we are to sing with joy and loudly even shouting. Lifting up our voice with strength, with praise that is even thunderous is what we're called to in this passage. Because when you sing with joy, when you shout from the top of the mountains, if you give glory to the Lord and you declare his praise to the coastlands, You are being loud and you are being passionate and you are being joyful. It is not mumbling, half-hearted singing. There is no such thing. There is no such thing as mumbling, half-hearted praise that glorifies God. Some of you have been privileged to be able to taste some of my wife's cooking. You know, if she if she brought you a cake or she brought you a meal. And you ate it and you're like, that was pretty good. Yeah, thanks. Appreciate it. I mean it's fine. She's not doing it for praise and so sh but we'd be like, what was wrong? Like was there something wrong with the meal? Like is it like no it was no it was pretty Yeah, thanks. Appreciate it. That's not how we react to things that are good, right? That's not how we react to things that are that are really delicious. And really wonderful. And there's nothing more wonderful and nothing more delicious than the gospel. And so I know sometimes it's hard if you don't know the song super well. Um I've said this before, you know, we do send the bulletin out on Saturday. You can make a quick playlist on Spotify if you don't know the songs. You can make a quick playlist on YouTube, whatever. You can learn the songs. You can have them playing in your house. house on Sunday morning as you wake up in the morning and you're preparing for worship. You can listen to them in the car on the way here just to get yourself ready to sing. Um that's uh you know, how how do people know how to sing along with all the songs when they get to the concert? Because they've been listening to them over and over again and they know them super well. And so I would just encourage you to do that so that you can sing with freedom and joy. Now after calling us to sing, all the world, with joy, God gives us three pictures of this one whom we are singing about and of his saving work that we are singing in the news in the new song To picture of a mighty warrior, and then a picture of a woman in labor, and then a picture of a faithful shepherd. And these are in verses uh 13 to 16. Verse 13. The Lord goes out like a mighty man, like a man of war. He stirs up his zeal He cries out, he shouts aloud, he shows himself mighty against his foes. Now, sometimes we're uncomfortable with the idea of the Lord as a mighty warrior, as a man of war. war as a man of battle, right, with garments soaked in blood. But salvation, think about the picture that we get of Israel being in bondage in Egypt. What did it take for Israel to be delivered out of the bondage of Egypt? Was Egypt just going to let Israel go? Did Moses just go to Pharaoh and say, let my people go? And Pharaoh says, oh, what a great idea. You guys can go. You're free. No. Because of the sin and the hardness of Pharaoh's heart, and because of the stubbornness of the Egyptian kingdom, it required bloodshed, it required the Lord to fight and to defend his people. And to vanquish their enemies. Well, we have an enemy who's taking captive the whole human race. He went into the garden of the beginning, he deceived our first parents, Adam and Eve, he got them to buy into a lie, he got them to sell themselves into slavery to him, and so ever since then all of humanity is born in slavery to sin and to Satan. Jesus said, everyone who sins is a slave to sin. And we're born in that bondage. We're born dead, we're born enslaved, we're born blind, and Satan is not just going to let us go. He's got this whole world deceived and in rebellion against God, and the world is not just going to let us go. That's why Jesus said, if the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first. If you belong to the world, it would love you as its own. But as it is, you don't belong to the world, but I've called you out of the world, and so the world's going to hate you. So we have real enemies. We have Satan. We have the world and we have our own flesh because even after we're redeemed, we still have remnants of sin in us that hate the Lord and that hate righteousness. and that just want to be selfish and greedy and fleshly, and so we have real enemies, and the Lord goes to battle to deliver us. He delivers us from the hand of our enemies. And yes, it's a bit of a metaphorical picture because there's really no competition. If God stands up and he speaks his word, the enemies are vanquished. But is a picture that says that there is a struggle, there is a battle. And if you are a Christian, if you've been a Christian for For any period of time, you have witnessed, you have experienced, you have felt, you know that life as a Christian is a struggle, it is a battle. You know the world is against King Jesus. You know that your flesh kicks and screams against growing in holiness. You know that the devil will come at you with doubts and lies and accusations and fiery darts. You know it's a battle And so what you want is to know that the most mighty warrior, the most mighty champion is on your side fighting your battle for you, and that he will win. He will win He will show himself mighty against his foes. And the ultimate place of victory, where God, the mighty warrior, defeated our enemies of sin and Satan. And death was at the cross. Colossians 2 tells us, you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh God made alive together with him, having forgiven all of our trespasses, by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands, this he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in him. At the cross. Satan thought he had won because he had put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot to betray him. to sell him for thirty pieces of silver. And he had put it into the mind of the Jewish leadership that they needed to get rid of this man who was a threat to them. And so Satan was at work conspiring to get Jesus to the cross, but when Jesus was on the cross and he cried out, It is finished, and the debt was paid in full, Satan was defeated. It was his doom. First Corinthians fifteen It says the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. The way of the cross, that looks like the way of defeat, that looks like the way of utter loss, was actually the way that God brought about the victory for us. Second image we're given is a woman in labor. Having won the victory for us against our enemies, the Lord is now waiting to make a final end of those enemies and the final judgment. I think that's what we get a picture of in verses fourteen and fifteen. For a long time I have held my peace. I have kept still and restrained myself. Now I will cry out like a woman in labor. I will gasp and paint. I will lay waste mountains and hills and dry up all their vegetation. I will turn the rivers into islands and dry up the pools. This is a picture of the final judgment that's coming. When everything will be completely reset, redeemed, transformed. In the midst of this judgment, God is going to lay waste the whole earth, and yet We go from this vision into the third image, and that is the image of the faithful shepherd. And yet, even in the midst of laying waste the mountains and the hills and drying up the vegetation, and turning the rivers into islands and drying up the pools, even in the midst of this great devastation that comes when Jesus Christ comes again to judge the living and the dead. Even in the midst of this, verse sixteen, and I will lead the blind in a way they do not know. In paths they have not known, I will guide them, I will turn the darkness before them into light, the rough places into level ground. These are the things I do, and I do not forsake them. Sometimes we think about, we can think about the coming of Jesus Jesus and the worldwide destruction that that's going to bring as all the enemies of God are judged, and sin and Satan and death and hell and all those who are rebelling against God are judged and the whole earth Is laid waste so that it can be renewed as the new creation. And it can be scary. And it would be scary to think about that because we know, we know in our hearts that we, in and of ourselves, we deserve judgment as much as anyone. We know the truth. We might put on a good show on Sunday morning. We might have a lot of people fooled about what respectable upstanding Christians we are, but it when it's just Ourselves and our thoughts at 3 o'clock in the morning, we know how dark our hearts are and how blind we still are in the stubbornness of our self-will, and we know that we deserve judgment as much as anybody else. And we need to be reminded of two things, I believe, in those moments. First of all, that yes, we do deserve judgment as much as anyone else, but Jesus took that judgment in our place on the cross. As the mighty warrior, he rescued us. He took it on himself. And the second thing that we need to remember is that he is our faithful shepherd who is leading us, though we are blind. He's preparing the way. He's taking us by the hand and he's preparing the way in front of us, and he's leading us step by step along the way. So even though we are blind, even though we are stubborn, even though we are willful, he has got us and he is leading us. When Jesus talked about being the good shepherd in John chapter 10, he said, My sheep hear my voice, and they follow me, and I give to them eternal life. And then he said, And no one can snatch them out of my hand I think it's a very interesting image. One of my favorite passages of scripture. And it's a very interesting image because it starts off with my sheep Hear my voice and they know me and they follow me and I give to them eternal life. That's a picture of shepherds saying, oh come follow me. and all the sheep, they know the voice, they get in line, they get behind, they follow him. But then he says, no one will snatch them out of my hand. But wait a minute. If they're following along behind, knowing his voice, why are they in his hand? Because sheep don't always listen. Sheep don't always follow the way they should follow. And so the good shepherd is going to take those sheep and carry them. And you may have heard this story before, but uh some people say it was the practice of shepherds In ancient times, that if a lamb was very much prone to wander and would not stay with the fold and was constantly getting himself into trouble, that the shepherd would take and break the leg of the lamb. and then bind it up and then carry the lamb on the shoulders and teach the lamb how to walk again so that that lamb would learn to stay close to the shepherd and be completely dependent upon on the shepherd. It was painful, but it was a process that was the ultimately the only way to save that lamb from itself. And I honestly don't know if they really did that or not. It sounds kind of cruel. But it's a good picture for us, isn't it? Sometimes when I'm so thick-headed and stubborn that I keep wandering away from my shepherd's good voice, he brings some pain into my life. Some pain that slows me down, some pain that stops me in my track, some pain that turns me to him so that I cry out to him, and he has to carry me for a while so that I will learn to stay close. to my shepherd, but here's what Jesus says. No one will snatch them out of my hand. Whenever I read that verse, I always think of my kids when they were little and we were in the Walmart parking lot. Because we had a rule. When you're in the parking lot, from the time we step away from the car to the time we step inside the doors of Walmart, you hold my hand and you do not let go for any reason Do you think my kids always wanted to hold my hand? No. But do you think I always held their hand? Yes. And if I couldn't carry them for whatever was going on, I held their hand. And they walked with me into that store and they weren't going to get away. And there were times when they were pulling and they were twisting and they were fussing, and I would just stop and I would say, I'm not going to let you go And we would keep walking. And eventually they learned I wasn't going to let them go. And then when they got a little bit older, it was like, okay, I can't hold three sets of hands at once. So You stay close, and they stayed close. And, you know, because people at Walmart are sometimes just Yeah. But we have a faithful shepherd. We have a faithful shepherd, and so we do not need to fear, because not only is he defeated our enemies, And not only is he coming again to make a final end of all evil, but he is going to keep us through it all, as we belong to him. We can openly confess that we are weak, that we are blind, that we are prone to want. We can be honest about that. Because we know that He is faithful and He is strong. And He is more committed to us than we are to Him, and He will never leave us or forsake us. He'll give us all the light we need to walk in the way he's prepared for us. He will level out the ground so that we do not get lost. He says, these things I will do and I do not forsake them. But not everyone belongs to the Lord. And our passage today ends in verse seventeen with a warning For those who will not, who do not, trust in the Lord, but instead who trust in idols. They are turned back and utterly put to shame who trust in carved idols, who say to metal images, you are our gods. And here's where we get back to the fact that it is an inescapable reality of the human soul that we are worshipers. And that very oftentimes that worship is reflected in the songs that we sing. We're all worshiping something or someone. And if we will not worship the Lord, we will be worshiping idols. And we're good at making them up. You know, John Calvin said human nature is a perpetual factory of idols. We we will make up whatever that we think is gonna save us, that we think is gonna help us. Bitcoin, Ethereum, what is that? Nothing little bits of computer code, right, that someone says is worth something. There are people who've dedicated their lives and lots of resources. To pursuing this, thinking it's going to be the thing that saves them from financial disaster or whatever. I mean, it You could just pick almost anything and someone's making it into an idol. The thing that we need to do is we need to ask ourselves My heart's desire, my heart's longing, my trust, reflected most in the songs that I sing, in what moves me most deeply Now, I'm not saying that the music about other things, you know, music about romance and music about music about the beauty of creation or music about life in this world are bad. They're not. God's given us all kinds of songs and they're not all they're not all bad, right? But the core of our heart, what we sing most deeply and most passionately, what we are most committed to, is what has our heart. And if it's not the Lord, then it's an idol. And an idol may provide distraction or entertainment for a season, but they cannot save us from our sin. They cannot give us what we most need. They cannot shelter us from the coming day of God's judgment. They cannot cover our shame or give sight to our blinded eyes or turn the darkness into light or bring us real and eternal life. They cannot do that. Only the Lord can, and so only He should have our hearts in that deep and trusting way. Earlier in Isaiah 25, God had told us what would happen on the great day of judgment and salvation. If you still have your Bibles open. You can turn back there with me for a minute. Isaiah twenty-five. Starting in verse six On this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food. A feast of well-aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that it cast that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces. And the reproach of his people will he will take away from all the earth For the Lord has spoken. It will be said in that day, behold, this is our God. We have waited for him that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. This is the day that's coming. For all who trust in him, from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. And commenting on this passage, Barry Webb, a Bible commentator, said this about this great feast day. He said, either repentance will bring you to the feast, or pride will keep you away. Either repentance will bring you to the feast, or pride will keep you away, and the consequences will be unsullied joy Or unspeakably terrible judgment. The alternatives which the gospel sets before us are as stark as that So there is no more important question to ask. What is the song of your heart? What is the longing of your soul? Who is the real object of your worship? If you see your own blindness and your own weakness and your own sinfulness, then in humility and repentance you cry out to the Lord and you say, You alone have to be my strength. And my song, you alone must be my salvation. And thank you for saving me. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch. like me. Or you think, I don't need that, I'll figure it out on my own. I'll get it together. I'll put together the right thing to have a good life. Or you might think, as some people think, I'm young. I've got years ahead of me. I'll live my good life now, and then I'll turn to this Jesus stuff later in life. You know what that shows, right? That shows that Jesus is not your heart's desire. You don't want to go to hell, but you don't really want to be at the feast with him either. You just kind of want to be left alone. That's That's not salvation. We need the Lord. We need the Lord to be the compelling song of our heart, the desire of our souls, and we need that day to be the day we're all living for. Let's pray. Oh Father in heaven, you've sent your Son, the servant of the Lord, to redeem us from ourselves He is the mighty warrior who has defeated all of his and our enemies. He is the coming king who will vanquish All those who oppose him. And he is the good shepherd who's leading us through this life into the life to come. And he is the theme of our song. The one we praise. He's the one we are to take to the nations. The good news that is for everyone. I pray that Christ would be our joy, that Christ would be our life, that Christ would be our song, and that Christ would be our mission. And I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.