Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Another morning Psalms Devotional. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And we are in Psalm 111. This morning. Psalm 111. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this day that you've given to us. Thank you for waking us up this morning and giving us another day of life. A day to live for your glory. A day to live in your presence here in this world. Even though we are physically separated from you, you are with us by your Holy Spirit. even in this world. And yet we do long for that day when we will be in your presence, even though it means we will be absent from this body. But we will be in your presence enjoying the glory. So, Father, we pray that you would be with us today and that you would speak to us through Psalm 111 this morning. Write it on our hearts, Father, as you and you alone can do. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 111. Praise the Lord. I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart in the company of the upright in the congregation. Great are the works of the Lord, studied by all who delight in them. Full of splendor and majesty is his work, and his righteousness endures forever. He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered. The Lord is gracious and merciful. He provides food for those who fear him. He remembers his covenant forever. He has shown his power, his people, the power of his works, in giving them the inheritance of the nations. The works of his hands are faithful and just. All his precepts are trustworthy. They are established forever and ever to be performed with faithfulness and uprightness. He sent redemption to his people. He has commanded his covenant forever. Holy and awesome is his name. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. All who practice it have a good understanding. His praise endures forever. Amen. That is Psalm 111. And before we dig into Psalm 111, I want to show you something really cool about this Psalm. This is one of a handful of psalms that are in the Psalter that is an acrostic in the original Hebrew, and that is each line intentionally begins with the next letter of the Hebrew alphabet. So Psalms 111 and 112, which we're going to look at, Lord willing on Monday, 112, those are both acrostic poems. And then the most famous is the longest. Psalm in the Bible, Psalm 119, which has not just one line for each letter of the Hebrew alphabet, but one stanza of eight verses for each letter of the Hebrew alphabet And uh this one, you can see here, I found this illustration online that shows you how this breaks down. So each line, there's ten verses, but the verses have two And then one has three lines. So each line begins with the next letter of the Hebrew alphabet. That's what those funny characters are in parentheses. Those are the letters of the Hebrew alphabet alphabet. Aleph Bait, Gimel, Dalit, Hey, Dvob, Zion, etcetera, all the way down uh to Sheen And Tav actually comes in at the very end before his praise endures forever. So the last two verses actually get three Hebrew letters each. So it's an acrostic. What does that mean? Well, it's just a different poetic form. We don't know who wrote Psalm 111, but there's some speculation. that these acrostic psalms 111, 112, and 119 were all written by Ezra the scribe. Ezra as a scribe and a priest would have had uh very much a a concern for the written word of God would have loved the Hebrew letters, would have spent a lot of time writing out the scriptures. Ezra is probably the person, the single person most responsible in the Lord's providence for us getting much of the Old Testament uh written down, copied faithfully, uh the establishment of the Jewish scribal tradition. And he wrote a number of the Psalms, we believe. Uh, although he didn't put his name on any of them, so we don't know for sure. But I I believe that 111, 112, and 119 were written by Ezra and that Ezra was the one who compiled the Psalter may have also written the books of 1st and 2nd Chronicles, or may have been the chronicler. And he wrote Ezra and Nehemiah as well. So I think this is a psalm of Ezra. And the other thing about it being acrostic is that it doesn't necessarily have the same kind of flow as some other psalms where there's a beginning and a middle and an end and sort of the development of a theme throughout the psalm. It's more organized by this form, this acrostic form, and then it's all around a theme. And the theme here is Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. That is the real theme of this psalm. Praise the Lord and all the reasons why we should give praise to God. I will give thanks. Giving thanks is so important in Scripture. You know, we we teach our children from a very young age to say thank you. when someone does something nice to them. And then I'm afraid, or for them, or gives them something. And then I'm afraid we grow up and we forget. That God is the one who does everything nice for us. And God is the one who gives us everything good, and that we should be continually giving thanks to God. And how do we give thanks to God with my whole heart? Not lip service, not mere politeness, not the rote routine, but with my whole heart I will give thanks to the Lord. And where? In the company of the upright in the congregation. It is so good to gather together with God's people for worship and give thanks. We get to give thanks in the company of the upright in the congregation. And then the psalmist unfolds the reasons for this. Great are the works of the Lord. Studied by all who delight in them. God's ways are great. God's works are great. Just yesterday I had the opportunity to be teaching a Bible class to a local group of homeschoolers. And we were talking about the evidence of God's design that's even in our own human bodies, the heart and the eye and the hand and all that goes in to make us. who we are. We are one of the great works of the Lord. We are, in fact, in many ways the crowning jewel of his creation, made in his image and and given uh great intelligence and uh relational capacity for love and truth. Of course we don't use it that way all the time because of sin, but great are the works of the Lord, the works of the Lord in creation. Studied by all who delight in them. Works of the Lord in history. Great are they, delighted you know, studied by all who delight in them. I love studying church history to see God's hand at work in the lives of his people. Full of splendor and majesty is his work, and his righteousness endures Forever. Ah, what what a wonderful God we get to worship and give thanks to And he has caused his wondrous works to be remembered. He is gracious and merciful. So by bringing us back to he is gracious and merciful, it's the character of God. Really, the reason why we delight in the works of God, the reason why we delight to study them, the reason why he's caused them to be remembered is that they reveal his character. His work is full of splendor and majesty because he is full of splendor and majesty, and he is gracious and merciful. Splendor and majesty speaks of the greatness of God. Gracious and merciful speaks of the goodness of God. Our God is great, our God is good, and we should be thanking Him and studying Him and praising Him. How good is God? He provides food for those who fear him, and he remembers his covenant forever. So in the most routine mundane ordinary things of life. God is gracious and merciful. We don't deserve anything from God's hand, but He gives us food and clothing and shelter and family and friends and laughter and Books and exercise and all just all these good things. And then spiritually, in the ultimate sense, he remembers his covenant forever. God never fails. to keep his covenant promises. He never fails to do what he says he's going to do for his people. He remembers his covenant forever. He has shown his people the power of his works in giving them the inheritance of the nations. The works of his hands are faithful and just. Precepts are trustworthy. This precepts is talking about the principles of God's word, the teachings of God's word. You want to know how to build your life on a sure foundation, build it on the Word of God. You want to know what steps are reliable steps to walk in in life. Walk in the steps that are ordered by the Word of God. God's ways are trustworthy He is faithful and just. They're established forever and ever, and they're performed with faithfulness and uprightness. There's no one who compares to God. No one has the wisdom that God has. No one has the power that God has. No one has the faithfulness that God has. No one is so good to us as God is. But then the crowning jewel of his works, and the crowning jewel of his covenant, and the crowning jewel of his word to us. Is the redemption he has sent. He sent redemption to his people And this is ultimately fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ, our great Redeemer. He sent redemption to his people. He has commanded his covenant forever. Holy and awesome is his name. Amen. The fulfillment of the covenant promises of God is Jesus. 2 Corinthians 1. 20, one of my favorite verses in Scripture, for as many As are the promises of God, they are all yes in Him that is in Christ. And that is why through Him we utter the Amen. to the praise of God. Second Corinthians 120 tells us all the covenant promises of God, that He will be our God and we will be His people, that He will wash away our sins, that He will separate our sins as far away from us as the East is from the West. That he will remember our sins no more, that he will show us the path of life, that he will bring us from death into everlasting life that he will raise our bodies from the dust and make them like his glorious body. All the promises of God are yes and amen in Christ. Holy and awesome is his name. So then how do we live? How do we live as those who believe in the promises of God, as those who trust in the fulfillment of those promises in Jesus Christ? Well, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. All those who practice it have a good understanding We walk in the fear of the Lord. We practice the fear of the Lord. That means we obey Him. We do what he tells us to do because we know he loves us and we know his ways are so much better than our ways. And so his praise endures forever. What a great psalm. What a great encouragement to us this morning to praise the Lord, to give thanks to him at all times with our whole heart because of his great works. Because of his unfailing word, because of his great redemption through his son, and as we praise him and as we give thanks to him, we walk in his ways forever Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, you are so good, great, and awesome, full of splendor and majesty are you. O Lord, and gracious and merciful, and so good, so kind and tender-hearted are you, O Lord. Cause us to remember you. Cause us to walk in your ways. Cause us to walk in the fear of the Lord. Cause us to study your works. Your works in creation, your works in history, cause us to remember your covenant, even as you always remember your covenant. And bless us, Father, every day of our lives as we seek to walk after you. Strengthen us by your Spirit. Give us the grace to follow Jesus. We pray in His name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining us for Psalm 111 this morning. Have a blessed day In the Lord today.