Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It's the third day of our 37th week, and we're here in John 15. One of my favorite passages, a passage that I memorized uh a portion of early in high school, and uh John 15, 1 to 17. This famous metaphor, the vine and the branches, and abiding in Jesus. So today our question is: how do we abide in Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gift of life that you have given us in your Son, Jesus Christ. Lord Jesus, you call us to abide in you. We want to do that. But show us how to. Holy Spirit, work in our hearts that we might abide in Christ, and his words might abide in us, and we might bear much fruit for your glory. We pray all this, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. John 15, 1-17. I am the true vine. And my father is the vine dresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away. And every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine. You are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me You can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away like a branch and withers, and the branches are gathered. thrown into the fire and burned, if you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends, if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. These things I command you, so that you will love one another. Well, certain instructions in life are just vitally important for us to be able to understand. So much depends upon them Years ago, when I was the head of school at New Covenant Christian School, for a couple of years our upper school was located in Calvary Baptist Church in downtown Bel Air And Calvary Baptist Church is the home of the Care Food Night, which we now participate in as a church. And Care Food Night, different church programs, different churches take turns on Mondays feeding. people in need. People in need from the community come in and get a free meal. They also get the access to the food prank pantry to take home a bag of groceries for the week and then also some baked goods. It's a great program. But there's a gas stove that's used and apparently these years ago one of the churches that took a turn in the care food night did not understand how the gas stove worked. And when they turned everything off at the end of the night, they would see the gas pilot lights on the stove and they thought, oh, we can't leave those burning. And so they would blow them out. That was Monday night. Tuesday morning, I'd walk in to open the school, and there would be the smell of gas filling the school building. And at first, of course, you can't have students come into a school that smells of gas, and so it was a big, big problem until I learned what they were doing. And they just weren't following the directions because they didn't understand how uh how the stove worked. Jesus makes it clear that the key for us bearing fruit to the glory of God The key for us having full joy in the Christian life is for us to abide in Him and for Him to abide in us. Without that, we bear no fruit. We can do nothing. Without that, we don't have the joy of Christ in us, and our joy is not full. So it's pretty clear, it's pretty vital to our spiritual lives that we abide in Jesus. What does that mean? Abide with me, abide in me. To abide means to remain, to dwell, to stay How? Well, of course, John 15 is not in isolation. It's building on a theme that John has been unpacking throughout his gospel. In John 1. 12, John told us that to those who received him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. And then in John 6. 40, Jesus said, Everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him shall have eternal life. And in John 10, Jesus had said, I am the good shepherd. My sheep hear my voice And I know them, and they follow me. So when we receive Jesus and believe in his name, we become children of God. When we believe in the Son of God, we have eternal life. If we are the sheep of God, we will hear the voice of Jesus and we will follow him So abiding in Jesus is really just the continual living out of these things. Receiving him, believing in his name, trusting in him, hearing his voice, following him. So how? How do we do it? We trust in Jesus, we listen to Jesus, and we follow Jesus. So first of all, we trust in Jesus. We abide in Jesus, and Jesus abides in us by faith. We are called to walk by faith and not by sight. And these are the two things that are in contrast. It's it's this is what God says in his word This is what God's calling me to do in this situation. This is what God's will for me is. Will I trust what God says? Or Will I trust my own thoughts, my own fears, my own anxieties, my own senses, my own apprehension of the situation? What am I going to do? We must trust in Jesus. We must walk by faith. Secondly, we must listen to Jesus and not to the world or to our flesh or to the devil. Now, the world never stops talking to us. I love sports. I love watching sports. I love listening to sports podcasts and radio shows. But one of the things that's driving me crazy about sports is that it's all sponsored by gambling companies now. It's it you cannot listen to sports or watch sports without a constant barrage of gambling Gambling, gambling. It's terrible, right? And so are we going to listen to the world? It's never going to stop talking to us. Our flesh never stops talking to us. We want what we want and we want it now. The selfish little voice of me, myself, and I. is there craving all the time. Satan never stops talking to us. Doubt about God and his character doubts about our own salvation or standing before God. These fiery darts of the enemy, they come at us all the time, sometimes completely unexpectedly What's the counterbalance? They're not going to stop talking. We need to make sure we're listening to Jesus. How do we listen to Jesus? We've got to spend time in his word. We must spend time in His Word every day. This cannot be an option. If we are to abide in Jesus and bear fruit for his glory, we must be in his word every day. Finally, we follow Jesus. We believe in him, trust in him, we listen to him, we follow him. We do what he says. We go where he says to go. It's not just a matter of I believe in you and I trust you in this situation, then we sort of passively accept it. It's an act of obedience. It's an act of obedience that says, where would Jesus have me go today? Who would Jesus have me talk to today? What opportunities do I have to obey him today? Well, we have to stay abiding in him. We have to be in prayer, in the word, in worship, in fellowship. And then, of course, we have the explicit instructions of God's Word. And so much of this following Jesus, what does it mean to follow Jesus? What does it look like for me to follow Jesus is spelled out for us in the Word. Jesus tells us right here in today's passage that we need to love one another. This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. That first circle is in your family and then in your local church family. And so to think, how can I love the people in need in my family, in my church family? How can I love the people in need in my neighborhood? How can I love my fellow believers, my brothers and sisters in Christ, and how can I reach out in love to my neighbors? That's what Jesus is doing. Jesus is constantly actively praying for his own, interceding for us. He's constantly actively leading for us, providing for us, protecting us. We want to be a part of that work. We want to follow the Good Shepherd. We want to stay connected to the vine by following him. So we must abide in Christ. We cannot do that on our own strength. It's the Holy Spirit who unites us to Christ by faith, and it's the Holy Spirit who causes us to abide in Christ. It's the Holy Spirit who grows fruit. through Christ in us. But the good news is that if you are a believer, if you really do trust in Jesus Christ, if you belong to Him and He belongs to you by faith, You're not going to be broken off and cast away. You are in the vine. His vital life is flowing through you. So trust him, listen to him, and follow him today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for making us one with Christ, He in us and us in Him. This is our salvation. This is our adoption as children of God. This is our forgiveness of sins. This is our eternal life May we walk by faith and not by sight. May we walk in obedience, trusting in Jesus, listening to Jesus, and following Jesus today. Show us how we can do that. We need time in your word, we need time in prayer, and we need time loving others. May that be the driving priority of our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Thank you so much for joining me for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.