Turn with me please to Psalm eighty-six. This is our final sermon in our summer series. Psalm eighty-six is a prayer of David. Incline your ear, O Lord. And answer me, for I am poor and needy. Preserve my life, for I am godly. Save your servant who trusts in you, you are my God. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for to you do I cry all the day. Gladden the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul For you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you. Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer. Listen to my plea for grace. In the day of my trouble I call upon you, for you answer me. There is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like yours. All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name. For you are great and do wondrous things. You alone are God. Teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth. Unite my heart to fear your name. I give thanks to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify your name forever. For great is your steadfast love toward me. You have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. O God, insolent men have risen up against me. A band of ruthless men seeks my life, and they do not set you before them, but you, O Lord Are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Turn to me. And be gracious to me. Give strength to your servant and save the son of your maidservant. Show me a sign of your favor, that those who hate me may see, and before you put to shame because you Lord have helped me and comforted me. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are amazed and astounded that you would be abundant in steadfast love toward us, who are poor and needy. But you've set your love upon us and you've reached out to us and you've drawn us to yourself. You've made us yours forever. You've gathered us together this morning to hear from your word. So speak to us. And reassure us of who you are so that we can keep our balance and keep our focus when things are going crazy in the world around us and we feel un Tethered and insecure. May we be anchored always and only in you, who alone are God. We pray in your name. Well, today is our final summer sermon in Hasid in the prayers of David. That's been our summer series, Steadfast Love, as it's translated in the ESV. In the prayers of David. And so we've looked at all the different Psalms that are that are prayers of David and that really focus On Hesed, there are actually more that we could have covered, but we'll save some for future summers. But today we come to Psalm 86 as the conclusion, and it's a fitting conclusion. I think it's important to have a fitting conclusion to something. I know some of you were fans of the series Lost years ago and watched it quite faithfully. And then from what I hear, the conclusion was a little bit disappointing. And uh I know my kids when they were a little bit younger got into the series of unfortunate events, which is a book series and then was made into a television series, it also doesn't really have a satisfying conclusion. It just sort of doesn't really go anywhere But hopefully, Psalm 86 will be a fitting and satisfying conclusion to this summer series focusing on the steadfast love of the Lord. We do have three references. to the steadfast love of the Lord before us in Psalm 86. Psalm 86 divides up into three parts, three stanzas. You see it broken up in the ESV quite well, verses 1 to 7. And then verses eight to thirteen, and then verses fourteen to seventeen. And each one of those three sections features the steadfast love of the Lord. Verse five, For you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love. to all who call upon you. Verse 13, For great is your steadfast love toward me. And then verse 15, But you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding. in steadfast love and faithfulness. So twice, at the beginning and the end, abounding in steadfast love, which, as we read earlier, comes from Exodus 34. We'll look at that later in the sermon. And then great is your steadfast love toward me. in the middle stanza. But there's another interesting connection between Psalm 86 and Psalm 40 that we looked at last week, and that's where I want to start because I think in God's providence, he sort of knitted these two together with a phrase. That we need to hear. Last week we were looking at Psalm 40. The last verse of Psalm 40 says this. As for me, I am poor and needy, but the Lord takes thought for me. You are my help and my deliverer. Do not delay, O my God. And then Psalm 86 opens, incline your ear, O Lord, and answer me, for I am poor and needy. So we have poor and needy at the end of Psalm 40, poor and needy at the beginning of Psalm 86. And this isn't the only two places where David says, I am poor and needy. We have it in Psalm 70, verse 5, but I am poor and needy. Hasten to help me, O God. You are my help and my deliverer, O Lord. Do not delay. In Psalm 109 we have it. But you, O Lord my God, deal on my behalf for your name's sake, because of your steadfast love is good. Deliver me, for I am poor and needy And my heart is stricken within me. In David's heart, as a man after God's own heart, these two things are together. It's the richness, the greatness, the abundance of the steadfast love of the Lord, and his own status As being poor and needy. And that really is the right gospel perspective to have in prayer and in life. You know, there are some people within Christianity who have kind of embraced uh the power of positive thinking or the idea that what you put out there into the universe will come back to you. That's really a new age concept, but some people have kind of embraced that within Christianity and you've probably heard me in the past refer to a book that was a bestseller for Joel Osteen several years ago called The Power of I Am. And uh in that book he says it's very important that you make positive statements about yourself. I am strong. I am healthy. I am good. It reminded me of Bill Stuart Smalley character from Saturday Night Live. If those of you who are old enough to remember that or watch that. uh Al Franken, I think he's now a senator, uh interestingly enough. But he would he would have this character, Stuart Smalley, in front of the mirror. He would say, I'm I'm good enough I'm smart enough and gosh darn it people like me. You know, so idea of power of positive thinking. And and it's interesting because, you know, Joel Osteen is trying to teach you how to pray, and he's saying you've got to put out these positive statements. Well, here's David in the Word of God. And he's saying, I am poor and needy. I am poor and needy. I am poor and needy. So apparently it's a good thing for us to confess before God that we are poor and needy. In fact, it puts us in the perfect posture for prayer because when we come to God in prayer, we're not coming to impress him with how great we are. We're coming with open and empty hands to receive who he is and what he has for us. And it's just as important to know that we come empty-handed, with nothing to give, as it is to know that He is abundant in steadfast love to answer our prayer with Himself. Our middle school cross-country teams started practice this week, and that means I started doing devotionals with them. I do a devotional with them on Thursdays. And this season we're going to go through the Beatitudes. So week by week we're going to be looking at one of the Beatitudes. And Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount When he begins the Beatitudes, which is the character of the person that's blessed by God, the character of the person who belongs in the kingdom of God, Jesus begins by saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And poor here means a beggar. Someone who's absolutely destitute. Martin Luther, the reformer, in his last written words on the day he died in 1546, he wrote, We are all beggars. That's the posture to come before God. Sometimes we think if we if we pile up impressive phrases, if we show God how learned we are or how eloquent we are But Jesus himself directly confronts that and says, No, God already knows what you need before you even ask. Just keep your prayer simple. And in the Lord's Prayer, Jesus really gives us a very simple and very direct prayer. Well that's what we have in Psalm 86. It's longer than the Lord's Prayer, but it's a very simple and it's a very direct prayer. It is also theologically rich, but not in a way that's trying to impress God. Rather in a way that is impressed by God. Do you know there's a big difference between those two things? There's a big difference between theological richness that's trying to impress God and a theological richness that is deeply impressed by God. And that's what we have here in Psalm 86. It begins with a very simple and very straightforward cry for help. It's not a lot of poetic language here. Incline your ear, O Lord, and answer me, for I am poor and needy. Preserve my life, for I am godly. Save your servant who trusts in you. You are my God. Be gracious to me, O Lord. O Lord, for to you I cry all the day. Gladden the soul of your servant. For to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul, for you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you. Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer. Listen to my plea for grace. In the day of my trouble, I call to you, for you answer me. First and foremost, what David's asking God to do is to hear him. See that in verse 1, incline your ear, answer me. And then in verse 6, give ear, listen. You know, when we pray, the most important thing in our prayer life is that God will hear us. That He would listen to us? And that He would answer us? If God's not listening Are we really praying? Some people think, oh, well prayer is a good spiritual exercise, you know, kind of like Lifting weights will build bigger muscles or or running will develop your cardiovascular endurance. You know, just praying is a good spiritual exercise that makes you a more spiritual person. That's not really what the Bible teaches us about prayer. Prayer is us talking to God And if you're going to talk to somebody, they need you need to know that they're listening to you. My wife will tell you, we've been married for 27 plus years and we've been riding in the car together for uh coming up on 31 years And um she knows that if she's going to talk to me, she needs to make sure first that I'm actually listening. Which usually means that whatever is on the radio needs to be turned off first because otherwise I will not hear what she says. Now, God is not distracted by the radio, but there is, there really is biblically a posture that God receives and a posture that God doesn't receive. Jesus told us about this kind of thing in the parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector. He says there's two guys who went up to the temple to pray. One of them was a Pharisee, one of them was a tax collector. Of course, in our mind, we're we're hearing that story. We're thinking, oh, the Pharisee, he's the bad guy. But we have to understand that in Jesus' day it would have been the exact opposite, right? For Jesus' original audience, they would have heard two guys left to pray, a Pharisee and a tax collector. Oh, a good person, a dutiful, religious, zealous person who loves the Lord and his law, and a scumbag. And a traitor. Right? The tax collector was clearly the bad guy in for Jesus' original audience. And so we have to understand that mindset before we move to it. And the Pharisee Stands off by himself. He's kind of too good to be around other people. And he prays and he says, Lord, I thank you that I am not like other men. For I tithe and I pray three times a day. I'm not like extortioners or even this tax collector over here. And then the the tax collector, he stands far off, but not because he's too good to be around other people, but because he's too humble to approach God. He won't even lift up his eyes for the Lord. He just says, Lord, have mercy on me, a sinner. And Jesus says he goes away justified. The tax collector, the dirtbag, the traitor, because he is humble before the Lord. He's poor and needy and he knows it. And the Pharisee He got, you know, Jesus says in other places, you know, if you pray to be seen by others, you have your reward. You were seen by others. But don't think you're going to be heard by God. That's not what you're even looking for. So we've got to come with this attitude that David has here. I am poor and needy. Hear me. Listen to me. And David knows that God will listen to him and God will answer him, not because of what David's bringing to the table, but because ultimately of who the Lord is. Look at what he says about God in this first stanza. And that's what it means by the way in verse 2 when he says, preserve my life for I am godly. Sometimes we hear that, we think, oh, he's saying, preserve my life because I'm such a good guy. We think godly means I'm a good person. No, it doesn't mean that. It means I belong to you. I'm yours. And that's the same thing where in the next line he says, You are my God. That's what it means to be godly is to have Gavira. So if God's taken you as his child and he's your God, then you're godly Doesn't mean you're a good person. Doesn't mean you've got your act together. Doesn't mean you know you have uh figured life out. It means you belong to God. And God will preserve your life If you're his. Save your servant. I love this again. We see we saw this in Psalm 36 of a couple weeks ago, where David even in the title identifies himself as the servant of the Lord. But here At the beginning of Psalm eighty-six in verse two, and then again at the end of Psalm eighty-six um in in verse in second verse from the end, verse sixteen, you have uh give strength to your servant, your servant. And I told you when we did Psalm 36, this word servant is really the most common word for slave. Someone who is the property of another. He belongs to God. God has purchased him. So you are my God. You are good. God is good. God is light. In him there is no darkness at all. God is all goodness. There's no false motives in God. There's no deception. There's no double dealing. No shadow of turning. That's the second thing. Third thing is you are forgiving. David knows he's a sinner. He knows he can't come to God pleading his own righteousness, but God is forgiving. And then the fourth thing, abounding, abounding. in steadfast love to all who call upon you. Here David doesn't say just, oh, you're abounding in steadfast love to me. Because it's not just David, it's all who call upon you. And then finally, at the end of this first stanza, he says, For you answer Me. David knows, at the heart of this, David knows he's in a committed covenantal relationship with God. The heart of God toward David and toward all his people is steadfast love, flowing out of God's goodness, flowing toward his people. Because the Lord is David's God, by covenant promise, David knows that he can have confidence in approaching God, that God will listen and that God will answer. You become a child of God by covenant promise in the new covenant by believing in Jesus Christ. If you believe in Jesus, if you've trusted in him for the forgiveness of your sins, if you've come to him and said, Nothing in my hands I bring, simply to the cross I cling. Then you come to God as someone who is loved, as someone who is accepted, and as someone who can have confidence before God. The New Testament drives home this confidence that we can have. In Hebrews 4, we read this: Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin, let us then with confidence Draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Because Jesus knows what it is to suffer temptation, Jesus knows what it is to go through trials and Jesus knows what it is to be misunderstood, rejected, abandoned. He understands and he is sympathetic. He entered into our humanity so he could be sympathetic. That gives us confidence. Say, oh, but I'm so weak, I'm so distracted, I'm so unreliable, I'm so yes, come. That's exactly the kind of people that the Lord wants to come. Come In your weakness, in your distractedness, in your unreliability, in your sinfulness, in your ignorance, come. In the name of Jesus, you have a sympathetic high priest. And 1 John 5 tells us about a different aspect of our confidence. 1 John 5, 13, I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask. We know that we have the requests that we have asked of him. Two pieces of confidence in 1 John 5. One is if you believe In Jesus Christ as the Son of God, you have eternal life. You can have that confidence. You don't need to wonder, am I going to go to heaven? Am I right with God? Am I going to measure up on the last day? Jesus already measured up for you Jesus already passed the test for you. If you're believing in him, you have eternal life. And the confidence is that if we are in Christ, We have access to the Father, and if we ask anything according to His will, according to what is in His Word, then we know that He hears us, and if He hears us, we already have the request that we've asked of Him. You see that confidence in David. He says in verse seven, For you answer me. And then he even puts in verse seventeen, he puts it in the past tense, Show me a sign of your favor, that those who hate me may see and be put to shame, because you, Lord, have helped me and And comforted me. He's so confident that he's even looking forward by faith to the day when all of his enemies will be ashamed because the Lord will have answered him ashamed. God will answer every biblical prayer of his people. That is a confidence, not a self-confidence. You see, there's two different ways that people approach God in confidence. One's right, one's wrong, and they're kind of reflected in the Pharisee and the tax collector. There's a self-confidence that says to God, you have to answer me because of who I am and what I've done for you. You owe me. As if. That self-confidence gets you nowhere with God. But there is a Christ confidence that says, I come to you in the name of Jesus. I come to you in the name of my perfect Savior. I come to you as one who is poor and needy, as your servant, as your child, as one you've loved. And again, the focus is on who God is and what he's done. And in all of that, God says, Come, welcome. You have confidence. I will hear you. What does David ask in this confidence? Preserve my life. Save your servant. Be gracious to me. Gladden the soul of your servant. David's in trouble. He's asking God to save him from his enemies, to be gracious to him. And he's confident that God will answer. We can use this as a model for prayer, but we have to understand the real situation that we're in. And we have to understand who our real enemies are and what the real danger is. Sometimes we get confused and we pray only about physical things, superficial things, circumstantial things. Things, temporary things. We only pray about those things, and we don't see beyond them to understand the eternal things and what's really happening. So when a problem comes into our lives, whatever the problem is, Right, there's the problem, and then there's the problem behind the problem. So who's your enemy? And what's his strategy? That's the question to ask so you can pray rightly to understand David's got enemies are trying to kill him. We have enemies. They're trying to kill us too, right? Jesus said about Satan, the thief comes to steal, kill, and destroy. What does he want to do? Satan wants to separate you from God, from his people, from your walk with him. He wants to discourage you. He wants to sideline you. He wants to distract you. He wants to put you out of the way. of being in close fellowship with God, close fellowship with his people. And he uses temporary circumstances to do that. It could be anything from as simple as, I am too busy today, I don't have time to read my Bible and pray. That's a very simple thing. It could come up any day. Oh, I've got so much to do today. I just got to get going. I don't have time to stop and read the Bible and pray. And I think we all know we can get into that pattern day after day after day, and it's like, oh, it's been a week since I really opened the Bible and talked to God. Well, Satan's getting you, you know. Or it can be something as serious as you know, a life-threatening illness or the death of a loved one. That can overwhelm you emotionally and and instead of drawing close to God in that, you sort of drift away from God in that The the point is, Satan's coming in to drive a wedge between you and God. And whatever the circumstances are, if you realize that You say, Lord, I don't want to drift from you. I'm feeling discouraged. You be honest. I'm feeling discouraged. I'm overwhelmed. This is too much for me. I'm poor and needy. Save me. Be gracious to me. Gladden my soul. Come to Him and be honest with Him. God will hear that. God will answer that. What we see then is we go to the second part of this prayer, we see David continuing to pray, and we see kind of a shift in his prayer. And the second stanza. The first stanza, the focus is all on the circumstances and needing deliverance from those circumstances. But here, he sort of rises above those circumstances and also goes deeper than those circumstances Listen to the focus in this second part. There is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like yours. All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name, for you are great and do wondrous things. You alone are God. Teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth. Unite my heart to fear your name. I will give thanks to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart. And I will glorify your name forever, for great is your steadfast love toward me. You have delivered me. You've delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. By the way, I've when we're doing the Psalms, if you've been here at all for some of them, you probably know what's the most important part of a psalm most most of the time? The middle, right? The central line. The central line of Psalm 86, one of the shortest lines, is right there in the second half of verse 10, if you count lines and not verses. You alone are God. And here God Elohim is mighty. This is talking about the strength and the power of God. So he's got these vicious enemies. You can talk about them again at the end. He's got these vicious enemies. Enemies. On a human level, they're much stronger than he is. They're much mightier than he is. But he says, you alone are God. And notice he's leading up to that. He's talking, he's thinking about God. There's none like you. There's no works like yours. All the nations are going to come and worship before you. You are great. You do wondrous things. You alone are God. And then look at how his requests change. Not that there was anything wrong with what he was asking before, but what is he asking now? Teach me your way, O Lord. That I may walk in your truth. Unite my heart to fear your name See, before he was like, Lord, save me from these people. Preserve me. Deliver me. Be gracious to me. But now he's saying, there's something more important that I need. Hey yes, he still needs deliverance, right? Christianity is not unrealistic. It doesn't say, oh, these circumstances are really no big deal. They are there, they're real. But there's something deeper that he needs, and that is he needs the Lord. To teach him so that he can walk in the truth. He needs the Lord to unite his heart to fear the Lord and not fear his enemies. We are easily distracted. This unite my heart is a prayer for an undivided, undistracted heart. We are so easily distracted. And when we get distracted, our hearts get divided. And we start to get afraid of a lot of things. that are not God. It's only one God. So social media, cable news. Podcasts, whatever, can take our eyes and get us worried about things, get us distracted and upset. And distressed about things. And it's not that we shouldn't be aware, and it's not that we shouldn't be praying about those things, but ultimately We need to come back to what David comes back to here, and that is God is unique. First line of the stanza, there is none like you. Middle line: you alone are God. It may be true in this circumstance, maybe the whole army of Israel is out to get David. We know that happened twice in his life when he was chased by Saul and when he's chased by Absalom. Both times, he had the whole army of Israel out after him. and only about 300 men who were with him as his mighty men. So it may be true that the entire army of the nation is out to get him, but you know what? There is a God who reigns over all the nations, who made all the nations. And they will all come and worship. They will bow the knee. They will bow down before the one true God and will glorify his name. This perspective is helpful regardless of what it is that's distracting us or dividing us. In the book of Philippians, Paul is writing to the Philippians, and the Philippians were a faithful church. That Paul mostly says very good things about because they were one of the first, they were the first church really planted in Europe in all uh history, and they were one of the first to partner with him in his ministry. So Paul loves the church at Philippi, but they're having a problem that shows up in chapter 2 in that there's starting to be division. within the church, kind of clicks, groups. And the reason why there ever is such a thing is because people get proud People get sort of thinking, okay, we're we're the right ones and you're the wrong ones. We're the good ones and you're the bad ones. We're the people who got it together, you're the people who don't And that you have division And so Paul doesn't just tell them, can't we all get along? He points them to a higher and deeper reality as the power and the foundation of this in Philippians 2. He says, have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who though he was in the form of God Did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a slave, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven, on earth, under the earth, and every tongue confessed that Jesus Christ is Lord. To the glory of God the Father. Paul points them to the humility of Christ as something to be imitated, and then the exaltation of Christ over all the nations as something to be anticipated. We are to be imitating the humility of Christ, and we are to be anticipating the exaltation of Christ. That keeps us grounded in what really matters It also keeps us from being prideful and keeps us from being overly distracted and divided. Notice that when David says unite my heart, it is unite my heart to fear your name. We're all afraid of something. And to an extent that we most of the time don't even realize that which we fear controls us. That which we fear masters us. Think about your own life. Think realistically. What drives you to make the decisions you make, to have the priorities you have, to do the things you do and not do the things you do It's probably largely, if you really understood it, driven by what you're afraid of. When we fear something, it holds our imagination, it holds our attention, and it drives our actions. For better or worse. And that's why David's prayer is: unite my heart. to fear your name. There is nothing worse than turning our backs on God Drifting away from him, dishonoring him, being disloyal to him, repaying his loving kindness with willful disobedience. That is horrible And to fear the name of the Lord is to say, you are the one who is mightier than all, you're also better than all, you also love me more than anyone else, and how could I possibly? Think about Joseph, the Old Testament, Joseph. And he's in Potiphar's house. Remember that? He's been sold into slavery by his brothers. He's been thrown into prison Well, after he was sold into slavery by his brothers, he ends up in Potiphar's house. And what puts him in prison is interesting It's a false accusation from Potiphar's wife. But it's what Joseph says when Potiphar's wife is seducing him that is You can tell is driving Joseph. Potiphar's wife is seducing him. And he says, How can I do this? Evil thing and betray God Thousands of years later, in the early church days, there was a bishop in Smyrna, present-day Turkey, named Polycarp, and he was put on trial. That he was threatened with being burned alive at the stake. And he was told that he was being put on trial and burned threatened with being burned alive at the stake. Deny Christ, curse Jesus, and worship the emperor. Light some incense and say Caesar is Lord and say Jesus is accursed and we'll let you go. And he says, eighty-six years I have known the Lord. And he has never once betrayed me. He has never once been on faithful to me, how could I turn my back on him now? And so he took the flames. And the reports are that hundreds of people who saw him die in that way later came into the church because here was a man who had something And you see in both of those cases, Joseph feared the Lord more than he desired Potiphar's wife. Polycarp feared the Lord more than he feared the flames. But their fear, it wasn't a cowering, trembling, hiding in the corner fear. It was a bold and joyful and confident and empowering fear. Because the Lord is good. You see, if you're afraid of monsters, they make you cower in the corner and tremble because they're bad. But if you're a fear of the Lord and you know how good he is, and you know how strong he is, you know how much he loves you, it empowers you, it gives you confidence, it gives you a good thing. You joy. There is joy in the fear of the Lord. Not in any other kind of fear. Because every other kind of fear is scary fear. But the joy the fear of the Lord is a joyful fear. Let's go to the last part of this prayer. David, in the final stanza, he returns to the persecution he's facing. Verse 14, O God, insolent men have risen up against me. A band of ruthless men now seeks my life. They do not set you before them. But you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Turn to me and be gracious to me. Give your strength to your servant and save the son of your maidservant. Show me a sign of your favor, that those who hate me may see and be put to shame, because you, Lord, have helped me and comforted me. Verse 14, David clarifies that these enemies. What are they like? Well, they're insolent and they're ruthless. That means they're arrogant and violent. That's a dangerous set of guys. That's a bad set of guys. But you. See that at the beginning of verse 15? But you. I've said before how R. C. Sprohl had said that the most important word in the Bible is but. It's the hinge that turns things, right? But you. Here's these guys. They're arrogant. They're violent. They've got me outnumbered. But you See, it's the hinge that turns everything. He turns his focus away. This is a powerful word, and I'm afraid sometimes we use it wrongly. And the hinge turns us in a bad direction. Sometimes we, in our humanness, in our fallenness, we'll do it this way. We'll say, Yes, Lord, I know that you are good and forgiving, but I Am such a miserable mess up. I am so terrible, there's no way you could possibly forgive me. Or Yes, Lord, I know that you're good, and I know that you love me, but these people, they're just so horrible. You see, we're using butt to pivot away from God. And to magnify either ourselves or our circumstances. What we need to learn to do in prayer is to come before God, honestly confessing the situation that we're in, just like David does. But then pivot to God. But you. But you. And when David pivots to God in verse fifteen, he he brings out this rich, rich doctrine of God. But you, O Lord, are a God, merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. This is ultimately something that comes from Exodus 34. We read it earlier. About 450 years before David, there was Moses. And he's on a mountain, Mount Sinai. And the Lord reveals himself to him. We read this earlier. The Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and fear. Faithfulness. This is the character of God. We saw it also in Psalm 103 earlier. It's the basis of God's forgiveness of us. This becomes the creed. Or a creed of the of the people of God in the Old Testament. Who is the Lord? The Lord, the Lord, is a God merciful and gracious. slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. That's who he is. Now in what we read earlier, if you look back at it in the bulletin, You may have noticed we kept reading in Exodus 34, and we actually what we did was we pivoted from who God is to what God does. Keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. But who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generations? And hopefully you notice there a tension It is not an accident. Do you see the tension? God keeps steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. We looked at Psalm 32, we looked at those three different categories, right? Iniquity, the filth, the wickedness, transgression, the deliberate breaking of God's law, sin, the falling short of God's standard, all three big Hebrew words for badness. God forgives it all. Then he says, but who will by no means clear the guilty. You see the tension there? How is he going to forgive iniquity and transgression and sin, but by no means clear the guilty? In other words, how is God going to be gracious? And just. How is he going to be merciful and also perfectly holy in his justice? The tension here requires the cross. Because God will not. God cannot. God cannot be holy and just and clear the guilty say, oh, just sweep it under the rug. What would we think? Really, what would we think if there was a judge who people came before him and they were obviously guilty and he said, uh, it's all right. You can go free. You're like, damn, somebody impeach this guy. He's terrible. He's not doing his job. Well, God is the judge of the universe and he's holy, holy, holy. There's no one like him, and he doesn't change. He's perfect in his holiness, perfect in his justice. So he he cannot, he will not clear the guilty. And so Jesus took our place. Jesus took our place on the cross and was condemned for us. He voluntarily, willingly said, I will take the condemnation they deserve. I will pay the penalty. I will take it all so that they can be cleared. You're found guilty in court and you've got a $10,000 fine, or you're going to go to jail. It's a very light sentence compared to what we deserve in God's eyes But if you go to court and you have a $10,000 fine or you're going to go to jail and you don't have the money, you're going to jail. But if somebody comes in and says, I've got the 10,000, I'll pay the fine for them, you get to go free. And justice is upheld because somebody else paid the penalty that you owed. Now you magnify that and And that's what Jesus did for us. He paid the penalty that we owe. So we can get back to the heart of God, who God is. In other words, God is free. To be who he is toward us, and no longer does he have to deal with our sin because our sin has been settled at the cross. It is finished, Jesus said. And so who God is, is a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. And that's why that's the part of Exodus 34, that part, who God is, that's repeated in the Psalms and in the prophets over and over again. That's the very heart of God. Why am I bringing this out? Because some people think that theology has nothing to do with life. Or theology is just something to debate about. Or prove you're right and somebody else is wrong. It's good for getting into arguments on Facebook or whatever. That's not the point of it at all. Theology is simply God revealing to us who he is. And the reason why he does it is so that we will trust him. And we will run to him, and we will cling to him and we will be kept by him and we will walk with him. That's why he shows us who he is. Psalm 86 is so valuable to us at the end of the day because it is a guide for us for how we can pray in a way that is honest. and powerfully transformative at the same time Sometimes we go one way that we think, oh, I have to have a correct prayer. I have to have a I have to have a right prayer. So we might pray a written prayer, like something from the Valley of Vision or something from. Those are fine. But at other times we just think, I'm just going to pour out my heart to God and just be honest with God. And we just sort of lay it all out there. We just sort of spiritual vomit at the foot of the Lord. Here it is. Here's the mess. Now you deal with it. Well, Psalm 86 tells us there's a way to pray that is as open and honest, but also is transformative, is theologically rich and right, and that is we can pray in the pattern of the Psalm God doesn't want you to fake it. God doesn't want you to come to him and say, Oh Lord, you are great and uh I just thank you. No problems here, Lord. Just want to praise you and No, God wants you to say what David says. Hear me. I'm poor and needy. Preserve my life. Infinite men have risen up against me. A band of ruthless men seeks my life. Whatever it is, Lord, cancer is ravaging my body and I don't know if I can handle the side effects of these treatments anymore. Lord, depression and anxiety just keep gripping my heart and they keep drawing me away from you Lord, I I just don't understand why my kids are acting the way they're acting toward me and toward one another and it's just so distressing to me. And Lord, I I I I want to be able to to teach others about you, but I don't feel like I have the answers and I I'm afraid that if I start talking to you I'm gonna come up with things I can't answer or or Lord I just don't know what to do about my work situation. It's so it's so troubling that my boss is just asking me to do things I don't feel comfortable doing and I and and But I don't want to be without a job, I've got to provide for my family, and what will I do? Like be honest with God. But then persevere in prayer and remind yourself in your prayer of who God is There is none like you among the gods, O Lord. There's no works like yours. You alone are God. You are a God whose Merciful and gracious and slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, and I am poor and needy, and won't you please come and help me? It's honest, and it's transgression. Transformative. And that is ultimately how we need to learn to pray. Because it's prayer that God is delighted to hear and to answer. And it will change us. It will change the way we see the world. It will change the way we see ourselves. It will change what we fear and why we fear it. And it will ultimately begin to align ourselves So will we learn to pray that way? Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, Father, you love us. That is a truth that we say very quickly and very easily, but it is astounding. We've never given you anything. We don't have anything to offer. You're not in need. You don't have some lack that we can Can meet, but you love us. You love us out of the overflow and the abundance of who you are. That's profound. If we're honest, we've never really experienced a love quite like that in this world. Help us to believe in such abundant, steadfast love, and help us to come to you in our need. And pour out our hearts before you. And remember who you are. And trust you that you will do what is right. Because you love us more than we could ever understand. And there is nothing impossible for you. So hear us and help us to pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.