Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 534 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We come to Acts chapter 26. And uh We're getting to some interesting stuff in the life of the Apostle Paul. This is one of my favorite chapters in all of Scripture. One of my favorite chapters in Acts is Paul makes his defense before King Agrippa, who is Herod Agrippa, who is the great grandson of of the King Herod, who was there when Jesus was born, and who killed the babies in Bethlehem, and the grandson of the King Herod, who was there when Jesus was on trial before Pontius Pilate. And these grandson sort of pass Jesus back and forth. So this is Herod Agrippa, the fourth generation of the Herodian dynasty. in Israel. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. Thank you for Acts 26. Thank you for the faithful defense of the gospel that you gave the Apostle Paul to make before King Agrippa and Queen Bernice. We pray that you would bless our time in Acts twenty-six and that you would help us to understand it, to love your word, and to grow in it. We pray this In Jesus' name, amen. Acts twenty six. So Agrippa said to Paul, You have permission to speak for yourself. Then Paul stretched out his hand and made his defense. I consider myself fortunate that it is before you, King Agrippa, that I am going to make my defense today against all the accusations of the Jews, especially because you are familiar. with all the customs and controversies of the Jews. Therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently. My manner of life from my youth, spent from the beginning among my own nation and in Jerusalem, is known by all the Jews. They have known for a long time, if they are willing to testify, that according to the strictest party of our religion, I lived as a Pharisee. And now I stand here on trial because of my hope in the promise of God made to our fathers, to which our twelve tribes hope to attain, as they earnestly worship night and day. And for this hope I am accused by Jews, O king. Why is it thought incredible by any of you that God raises the dead? I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things in opposing the name of Jesus of Nazareth, and I did so in Jerusalem. I not only locked up many of the saints in prison after receiving authority from the chief priests, but when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them. And I punished them often in all the synagogues, and tried to make them blaspheme, and in raging fury against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. In this connection, I journeyed from to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests. At midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven. brighter than the sun that shone around me and those who journeyed with me. And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you To kick against the goads. And I said, Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But rise and stand up upon your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a servant. and witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you, delivering for delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles to whom I am sending you. To open their eyes, that they may turn from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision, but declared first to those in Damascus, then in Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea, and also to Gentiles, that they should repent, and turn to God, performing deeds in keeping with repentance. For this reason the Jews seized me in the temple and tried To this day I have had the help that comes from God. And so I stand here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass. that the Christ must suffer, and that by being the first to rise from the dead, that he will proclaim light both to our people and to the Gentiles. And as he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, you are out of your mind. Your great learning is driving you out of your mind. But Paul said, I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but I am speaking true and rational words, for the king knows about these things. And to him I speak boldly. For I am persuaded that none of these things has escaped his notice, for this was not done in a corner. King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe. And Agrippa said to Paul, In a short time would you persuade me to be a Christian? And Paul said, whether short or long, I would to God that not only you, but all those who hear me this day might become such as I am, except for these changes. Then the king rose, and the governor and Bernice, and those who were sitting with them, and when they had withdrawn, they said to one another, This man is doing nothing to deserve death or imprisonment. And Agrippa said to Festus, this man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar. six. Here we see the Apostle Paul at his best, I think. This is my favorite of the apologetic speeches of the defenses of the Apostle Paul. Now apologetics, a word that we use from comes from the word apologia. And apologia means a speech made as a legal defense. And Uh in Acts seventeen we have Paul giving a kind of apologetics defense um to the intellectuals of Athens. At Mars Hill. We see him a couple of times since his arrest, giving briefer apologetic defenses. But now he's giving this more full defense of the gospel and of his uh innocence in the matters of which he's been charged. You look at verse 1, it even tells you that this is a Greek apologia, because Paul stretched out his hand. and made his defense. That's the posture of when you're getting up to give a speech in Rome, particularly to a to an official or to a group of officials, and you're speaking especially to defend yourself, you you would stretch out your hand. You can see fingers Famous depictions of lots of famous Roman statesmen doing that in the Senate, etc. Um and so that's verse one tells us that that's what he's doing. King Agrippa. Paul knows who King Agrippa is. He would know well the Herodian family. There's an elder in the church in Antioch. that we read about several chapters ago, who was a lifelong friend of Herod the Tetrarch. That would have been King Agrippa's father. So there are those within church leadership who have close friendships with the Herodian family. Plus we have the fact that Herod the Great King Agrippa's great-grandfather would have known of the prophesied birth of the Messiah, the Son of God, King Herod, uh the grandfather of uh King Agrippa would have been there to if he would have met Jesus himself and would have investigated him. So so these things when when Paul says to him These things were not done in a corner, and I know these things are well known to you. He's not just making stuff up. He's speaking with a confident knowledge. Paul's been engaged in ministry with a a friend of the Herodian family, and he knows the facts. He was he was connected to the Sanhedrin in Jerusalem, and the Sanhedrin would have had a lot of dealings with the Herodians. So it's it's not speculation. It is confident knowledge that Paul knows of the Herodian dynasty and of King Herod Agrippa here, who's be who he's standing before, that they know the scriptures. They're well educated and well trained in the way of the Jews, and they know the basic facts of what happened with Jesus of Nazareth and the basic facts of what's been happening with the early church. So that's background information. You see, when when Paul was in Athens in Acts 17, the Athenians didn't have any of that background information. So Paul connected to the background information that they would have had, which he saw in the form of many statues and the statue to the unknown god and then he quoted some Greek poets in what they said about the gods. So he's connecting to people based upon what he knows of their background knowledge. And that is good biblical apologetics. But good biblical apologetics connects with people on the basis of their background knowledge and what they already know, but then immediately seeks to connect that to Jesus Christ. And that is what Paul has been doing And so he goes in and talks about himself and his connection to the name of Jesus Christ, to what is proclaimed in Jesus Christ. He tells a story of his conversion by this direct confrontation by the Lord Jesus. We get more information here about what it is that Jesus said to Paul on the road to the Damascus back in the account earlier in Acts, we just we we got a little bit, but here we get a little bit more, right? What was Jesus commissioning Paul to do? He's commissioning to be a servant and a witness to these things which you have seen me, in which you have seen me. and to those in which I will appear to you. So Jesus has already appeared to Paul. He's going to appear to a moor. He wants him to go out and tell what he's seen. And he wants to He wants him to be sent to open the eyes of those who are blind, to turn them from darkness to light. From the power of Satan to the power of God, that they may receive. What do we receive? When we turn from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to the power of God, what do we receive from Jesus? We receive, number one, forgiveness of sins And number two, a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. Now this is interesting because these are the words of the Lord Jesus Himself. And what this tells me is that true biblical evangelism, the mission that Paul was given as a missionary is essentially and vitally church-centered. You see that? Not only forgiveness of sins, he could have just said that they may receive forgiveness of sins and eternal life and a relationship with me. a personal relationship with me. Jesus could have said that. But he said, forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by me. That's the people of God in the church. When we come to Jesus Christ in true faith, We are forgiven of our sins and we're given a place in His kingdom, which is manifested on earth in His church. Then Paul says how he was not disobedient to this vision, but that he's done everything that God has commanded him to do, and that this is really the reason why the Jews have tried to kill him. Not because he's against Moses, not because he preaches against the law and the temple, which are the things that he was accused of falsely, but because He is proclaiming. And he says, I stand here, testifying, both to small and great. And here's the great, the king and queen of the land. He's testifying the same thing to them that he would say if a household slave came to visit him in his jail cell. Peter, Paul is not a respecter of persons. saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass. Everything that Jesus did, everything that happened in and through Jesus was foretold by Moses and the prophets. that Christ would suffer and that be by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light both to our people and to the Gentiles. It's just a brilliant and brief and pointed presentation of gospel truth Notice that the gospel truth is not primarily presented as an invitation to the hearer. To believe something or to do something. It's not the proclaiming the gospel is not primarily God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. The presentation of the gospel is primarily. Here's what God promised to do through Jesus Christ, and here's what he has done. Jesus Christ suffered for sins and rose again from the dead. And through him, the light of God is being proclaimed both to our people and to the Gentiles. The light of God is being proclaimed. And for those who believe this good news proclamation, you receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified. by Jesus, those who are made holy by Jesus. That's the gospel. The gospel is about what God has done through Jesus Christ, what God is now extending to the world through Jesus Christ, and our response to So this is Paul's gospel. And Festus responds to it by just being completely incredulous. Paul knows that really the person he's talking to is Agrippa. Because Agrippa is prepared to hear this message. Festus is really a corrupt Roman official who doesn't really have a background in these things, and so he's there and he's saying, Ah, you you're crazy Paul. You just you've studied so much that you've done been broke your brain. Right? That's what Festa says. My translation of what Festa says. Paul, you've done been studied so hard that you've done been broke your brain. You're out your mind. Right? And Paul says, No. I love Paul's response. I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but I am speaking true in rational words. Paul is very clearly presenting himself as a man, even though he's been imprisoned unjustly for an extended period of time. Even though he's been through so much in his life, he's presenting himself as one who knows what he's talking about, who has a quiet confidence. and a knowledgeable and sure and certain hope in the gospel. He is speaking true and rational words. By the way, it is through the proclamation of the gospel that God brings salvation. Paul doesn't come out of prison and start doing signs and wonders. He doesn't come out of prison and start threatening all sorts of wild-eyed things. It is through the simple and clear proclamation of the gospel through true and rational words. That God is glorified, and that people are brought to faith in the Lord. King Agrippa doesn't come to faith in the Lord here, but He knows that that's what Paul's calling him to. And so he says, Paul challenges him, Do you believe the prophets? I know you believe. And Agrippa says says, in such a short time would you persuade me to be a Christian? Again, it's uh yes, that's exactly It doesn't matter if he's given five minutes with somebody, or five hours, or five days, or five years, what Paul wants more than anything else is to persuade people that Jesus is the Christ, the one through whom God has brought his light and forgiveness and his kingdom into the world. the one who has suffered and died and rose again, the one who is the fulfillment of Moses and the prophets, and Paul is very clearly calling Agrippa to believe. Whether short or long, I would to God that not only you, but all those who hear me this day might become such as I am, except for these chains. King Agrippa, you might be sitting on the throne, you might have a crown, you might have a queen, you might have a kingdom, but you have nothing compared to what I have. I have the forgiveness of sins, and I have a place in God's eternity. Your kingdom will end, your crown will rot in the dust, you will pass away from the scene of history, but King Jesus will be worshipped and adored, and you can have a place among those who are sanctified. in him. That's the message. And it's a message that ultimately, as far as we know, a griffin never receives. But it is enough. What Paul says is enough for Agrippa and Bernice and Festus to all agree, this man's done nothing deserving death or imprisonment. Could have been set free if he'd not have appealed to Caesar. If he'd not appealed to Caesar. Do you I wonder if that that time Paul thought, man, why did I have to go off and appeal to Caesar? You ever do that, you make a decision, you regret it later. No, no regret here. No recorded regret. Because Paul's Paul's destination is exactly what Paul God has in mind for him. And that is to bring him to Rome. So even though Paul has appealed to Caesar, and even though now that he finally gets a fair trial after a couple of years of being in prison, The king and the queen and the Roman governor all say, Yeah, he's innocent. He he could be set free. Yeah, but he appealed to Caesar, so we gotta send him to Caesar. Even though that happens, Paul's not, you know, crying in his Cheerios. He's not upset. He's not wringing his hands over what am I going to do now? God has Paul exactly where he wants And even as he's going to set sail for Rome, Paul's going to end up exactly where the Lord wants him to be in Rome. And to check that to make sure that I'm not just making that up. Go read the book of Philippians. Philippians is a letter that Paul writes from Rome, and he says, In chapter one of that letter, I know that everything's worked out for the glory of God and the advancement of the gospel. So I rejoice. So that's Paul. That's his faithfulness, that's his defense, and that's his joyful perspective as he trusts in the providence of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are great. And you You are good. Your power is unrivaled. Your wisdom is unmatched. Your salvation is unshakable and eternal. And your care for your own is wonderful beyond our understanding. Lord God, would you please give us faith in Jesus Christ confident hope in the gospel that we might have a consistent, clear, and faithful witness before whoever you bring into our lives, whether we have an opportunity to have a five-minute conversation with someone or to send spend a more extended period of time with them, may we have a heart to do as the Apostle Paul did, and that is to share the truth of Jesus Christ, that others may come to believe. And find their place, forgiven of sins among those whom you have sanctified. We thank you in Jesus' name Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Acts 26. Tomorrow we're back in the book of 1 Chronicles, chapter 11. Have a blessed day in the Lord.