We're turning our attention today to Romans chapter 11. So if you have a Bible, you can turn to Romans 11. The text will be on the screen. If you want to use one of the church Bibles, you'll find it on page 947. Romans chapter 11, verses 25 to 36, this is the Word of God. Lest you be wise in your own sight. I do not want you to be unaware of this mystery, brothers. A partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And in this way all Israel will be saved. The deliverer will come from Zion. He will banish ungodliness from Jacob. And this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins. As regards the gospel, they are enemies for your sake, but as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers, for the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. For just as you were at one time disobedient to God, but now have received mercy because of their disobedience So they too have now been disobedient in order that by the mercy shown to you, they may also now receive mercy. For God has consigned all to disobedience. That he may have mercy on all. Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God How unsearchable are his judgments, and how inscrutable his ways. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor, or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please write this word on our hearts. Help us to understand it. Help us to receive it by faith. Help us to respond to it with love and obedience. As you teach us all, Father, may we grow to love Jesus more and to worship you more deeply and to follow you more faithfully in your mission in the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. We come today to the end of Romans chapter eleven. Just uh a brief announcement about Romans. We've been in Romans now since the beginning of September. We're coming to the end of chapter 11. We begin next week, Lord willing, we begin. this application major section of Romans starting in Romans chapter 12 where we get to living out the gospel. In many ways, we could see the whole book of Romans as being about the righteousness of God. In the first three chapters, we see why righteousness is needed. At the end of chapter 3, we see how righteousness is given in Christ, our propitiation. Then in chapters 4 to 8, we see how righteousness is received by faith. and transforms our lives. In these three chapters, we've kind of been on a side quest looking at Israel and we see righteousness rejected, that Israel has rejected God's righteousness, and Paul's wrestling with that And then starting in chapter 12, we'll see righteousness applied or righteousness lived out. Now, after This week, I only have six more weeks with you before I will be on sabbatical. So you're wondering, can we finish Romans 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 in six weeks? I had a plan to do so, but I thought, no, that's not really the best way to handle it. So We are not going to finish Romans before I leave for my sabbatical. We'll get through chapters 12 and 13, Lord willing, and then we'll pick up and finish with 14, 15, and 16 when I return in September. But that's our plan. In life, in so many areas of life, we have incomplete information. I mean, none of us are God. We don't know everything. But sometimes we fool ourselves into thinking that we know a lot more than we do. So we have incomplete information, and what we do is we make a lot of assumptions that sort of fill in the gaps And then we live on the basis of that mixture of really incomplete information and a bunch of assumptions. And it's a really faulty way to live life. But we all do it. We meet somebody for the first time and maybe they've had a terrible day. Maybe maybe just something horrible has happened in their life, so they're kind of down, they're a little bit quiet, they're kind of withdrawn, and we think, well, they're kind of a standoffish person, they're not very friendly, and we sort of categorize them that way in our minds even though we don't really know them at all. We just had one conversation on an isolated day and and and and we can do that, you know. Uh we're all guilty of it. I know that if I meet someone and I find out early on that they root for the New York Yankees and the Dallas Cowboys, I probably conclude that they're a terrible human being and someone I never really want to be friends with. Not really. Now if they were also an Ohio State fans, that might be the deal breaker, but seriously we do this. We do it all the time in silly ways. but we do it in in ways regarding the Bible that becomes a really dangerous pattern. Because we can approach the Bible this way. We can we can get a little bit of Bible knowledge. And then we can sort of fill in the gaps with our human wisdom and make inferences and reach wrong conclusions that actually directly contradict what the Bible says if we would just keep reading and keep studying. One of the misconceptions that we've had to deal with when we go to Uganda to do mission work over there is that from the Muslim Community as well as from some really old school dispensationalism that's really circulating in the Christian community there There is this idea that the Old Testament is just the story of the Jewish peoples, just the story of Israel. And so it really has no relevance to the life of Christians. Now some of that might be because in many of the tribal languages all they have is a New Testament in their language. And so they might be told, well, you don't really need an Old Testament. That's just about the Jewish people. That's their story. It's got nothing to do with you Well, that is incorrect and very incomplete information. There are other people who think, well, while we can learn a lot of things from the Old Testament. It's clear that God has two different peoples in the Bible. He has Israel and He has the church, and He's got a different plan for these two different peoples and a different set of promises for these two different peoples. And as we've been seeing in Romans chapter 11, Paul, who was a Jew, who was a Pharisee, who was trained by the most prominent rabbi really in the history of Judaism, Gamaliel, he It's saying no, there's one people of God, there's one olive tree, we looked at that last week. We've been grafted into that olive tree Some of those natural branches have been broken off because they were unbelievers, but they could be grafted back in again. So there's one people of God. Other people sort of in the other extreme, have read the Gospels and they've seen that the Jewish leadership and most of the Jewish people rejected Jesus. They read the book of Acts and they see the Jewish leadership persecuting the early church and they say, well, the Jewish people are cursed by God. They've been set aside. They've been replaced by the church, and God's done with them. Well, that's not true either. Not according to what we just read in Romans 11. So you have to let Scripture, all of Scripture, fill in the gaps and inform you of what God's plans and purposes are. So we're going to be trying to try to be very careful with Romans 11. It's one of the key passages for understanding It's the conclusion of this three-chapter long section that began at the beginning of Romans 9 of what is God doing with the Jewish people? What is the relationship between the Jewish people and Gentile believers? between the promises and purposes of God and the Jewish people. And the conclusion of this section is really in verse 25. Verse 25 is something that Paul's been building up to, I think, since the beginning of chapter 9. In verse 25, he says, Lest you be wise in your own sight, I do not want you to be unaware of this mystery, brothers. What's the mystery? Here it is. A partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And in this way, all Israel will be saved. The Church in Rome by this time was a majority Gentile church. This letter was probably written by Paul in the late 50s A. D. , about the year 49 A. D. , so maybe eight years or so prior to this letter being written. The emperor had kicked all the Jews out of Rome. And the reason that's given is actually that they were having a dispute about some man named Christus. What does that sound like? So the Jewish community in Rome was kind of split between those who were believers in Jesus as the Christ and those who were not, and there was disputing and some quarreling and some maybe some rioting even over that. Uh we know where the Apostle Paul went around, there was often rioting against his message from from Jewish people. And so the Emperor Claudius like, get out, just get out of the city. All Jewish people out. Well what happened then in the following years is that the church becomes run by Gentiles. And now by the time Paul writes Romans, it's a majority Gentile church that has been welcoming back in some Jewish people, but the Jewish people are a minority. And so I believe he has the Gentiles in mind when he says, lest you be wise in your own sight. Don't think, oh, we're the ones who have it figured out. You know, we've got this clear. They're kind of a muddled mess over there, but we've got it right. He says, I'm going to tell you a mystery. There's a partial hardening that's come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. This is a partial hardening, and it's a temporary hardening. It's a partial hardening. Not all Jewish people are hardened to the gospel. God has his holy remnant. Paul used himself as an example. He says, I myself am a Jew. He's very clear and very proud of, rightly proud of his Jewish heritage and background. He's part of that remnant chosen by grace. All the other apostles, by the way, were also Jewish. As well as just about every author of the New Testament except perhaps Luke. Luke, who wrote Luke and Acts, maybe the only Gentile author of the New Testament. Even today, I don't know if you're aware of this or not, but there's probably a million or more Jewish people around the world who believe in Jesus. And out of about 16. 5 million Jewish people in the world, that's a substantial percentage of the population. That's a higher percentage of Jewish people who believe in Jesus. than you would find among the Japanese people or the Turkish people or the Saudi people or a bunch of other countries in the world. So there is a partial hardening, but it is just a partial hardening. There are Jewish people who believe in Jesus. In fact, over the past 50 years or so, since the founding of Jews for Jesus in 1973, Jewish evangelism has exploded, and today there's over 900 ministries that are committed to reaching Jewish people for Christ, and they are seeing fruit all over the world. And So it's a partial hardening. But if I'm reading Romans 11 correct, if you care about reaching the Jewish people for Jesus, then you ought to also care about reaching all the nations for Jesus because it's not only a partial hardening, but it's a temporary hardening. There's an until, and it's until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. Well, this is something that Paul's hinted at earlier in Romans 11. We read this two weeks ago when I preached on that first part of Romans 11. If you still have your Bible open, look at Romans 11, look back to verse 15. He said, if their rejection, that is if the Jewish rejection of the gospel, if their rejection means reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead? And verse 24 says, For if you were cut out from what is by nature a wild olive tree and grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree, How much more will these, the natural branches, be grafted back into their own tree? So he's hinted at it twice. There's the rejection. Historically, it was because the Jewish community in Jerusalem and Judea, because they as a community rejected the gospel and started persecuting the church that the church scattered out and took the gospel beyond Jerusalem and Judea to the nations. That was historically what happened. So their rejection led to the reconciliation of the world, led to the lead to the gospel going to all the world. How much more will their acceptance mean life from the dead and how much more easy it will be for them to be grafted back into their own olive tree if we, who are wild olive trees, were grafted in. We're not used to thinking about ourselves this way, but I always like to remind myself that when Paul was writing Romans, what were all of my ancestors doing? They were worshiping spirits. They were sacrificing human beings. They were in the darkest of paganism. That's all of my ancestors anyway, up in the northern wilds of Europe. They were they were barbarians, they were mostly a lot of them practiced human sacrifice and uh were, you know, worshiping evil spirits, really So if those people could become Christians, how much easier is it for people of the book, people who have uh the Word of God, and for them to come back in? And that's what Paul is hinting at here. He says that, but then he goes beyond hinting to just stating it openly in verses 25 and 26. There's a partial hardening until the fullness of the Gentiles comes in. What that probably means is when the gospel has saturated the nations, it probably doesn't mean necessarily every single Gentile who's going to come to faith in Christ has come to faith in Christ, but there's been a saturation of the gospel throughout the nations, throughout the ethne, to use that Greek word, which is all every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, all over the world. When the gospel has saturated, the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. We then get, and in this way, all Israel will be saved. And oh boy. There's no more disputed line In the New Testament, especially among Reformed Presbyterian Calvinists. What in the world does this mean? All Israel will be saved. Well, context is always the key for understanding what anything means. It is true that the Apostle Paul, at the end of Galatians, he refers to the church as the Israel of God. And it is true that Peter in 1 Peter 2 uses language of Israel, chosen race, royal people People for his own possession uses that of a predominantly Gentile church. We are spiritual Israel. We are the Israel of God as the church. However, in this context He's talking about ethnic Israel. And that is very clear if you look at the context. He's talking about Israel Right before and right after. Lest you be wise in your own sight, I do not want you to be unaware of this mystery, brothers. A partial hardening has come upon Israel. Until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. Now, what does Israel in verse 25 refer to? Does it refer to the church as spiritual Israel, or does it refer to ethnic Israel? It's obviously ethnic Israel. And in this way, all Israel will be saved. Now look. In this way all Israel will be saved. And look down at verse 28. As regards the gospel, they are enemies for your sake. Who's they? Israel. It's the only thing it can refer to in the context. Who are the enemies of the gospel? At this point in time, the Jewish people are the biggest source of opposition to the gospel. So he says they're enemies, the Jewish people. So Israel of God here, the Israel will be saved. I think in the context it has to mean the people of Jewish ancestry, the people of Israel, the descendants of Abraham through Isaac and the sons of Jacob. Now I've come through a journey on this particular uh viewpoint myself. When I was in high school and early college, I was a full-blown dispensationalist because I was a good Southern Baptist and I believed in that old school dispensational teaching which I had been brought up on. And I even was a supporter of uh dispensational ministry when I as soon as I have a part-time income in high school Because I was committed to this. And I would have said, no, Israel is Israel. They have their sets of promises. The church is the church. And never the twain shall meet through two different peoples, two different promises. Well, Romans 11 kind of blew that out of the water for me. It was like, oh, that's clearly one olive tree. If you weren't here two weeks ago, I'll briefly look back with you starting in verse 7. If some of the branches were broken off seventeen, sorry, but if some of the branches were broken off and you, though a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among the others and now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree Do not be arrogant toward the branches. If you are, remember it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you Then you will say, branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in. This is true. They were broken off because of their unbelief, but you stand fast through faith. How many olive trees are there? One. Because there's one people of God. How many roots are there? One. What's the root? I believe in the context of the Bible, the root is the is the covenant promises made to Abraham. to be children of God, to be a blessing to the nations. Really at the heart of that is the promise that I will be your God and you will be my people. One of my favorite ways I've heard this expressed is Christ is not a bigamist. Well that's kind of shocking statement. Yeah, Christ doesn't have two brides. He doesn't have one bride called Israel and one bride called the church. He has one bride, one holy people of God. It's called Israel in the Old Testament, it's called the Church in the New Testament, but sometimes it's called Israel in the New Testament. So that's that's the viewpoint that I came to, but for years Then I would have said, well, I'm I believe in covenant theology. I'm reformed. I believe that the church is the spiritual Israel. So whenever you read about Israel in the New Testament It's talking about the church, and I would say when Paul says all Israel will be saved, he means the whole people of God from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. He's talking about the church. And I believed that up until pretty recently. And then I got challenged on it to look at it in context. And this is just a reminder that we always need to take are systems of doctrine and subject them to the Word of God. If the Word of God is clearly contradicting something in a system of doctrine, then the system of doctrine needs to change. Because the Word of God is the only thing that's infallible, not any system of doctrine. So all Israel in this context, I believe, means the Jewish people. Does that mean that every single Jewish person who has ever lived is going to be saved because They're descendants of Abraham? No, it can't mean that because that would contradict everything else Paul's been saying in these chapters. Why would Paul, for example, in chapter 9, he said, I myself wish that I could be accursed for the sake of my brothers in the flesh, my fellow Jews. Why would he wish himself accursed if they were all going to be saved? They're not all saved. And there's no other salvation but through Jesus Christ. You have to believe in Jesus Christ to be saved. He's the only salvation. So what this is referring to is that sometime in the future, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in, when that happens. The vast majority, the bulk of the Jewish people who are then in the world will come to faith in Christ. How, when, we don't know. But I think that's clearly what Scripture is teaching here. Even if, even if you wanted to say all Israel will be saved refers to the whole church, the whole people of God. You still have the word until that tells you it's a temporary hardening. A partial hardening has come upon the Jews, or upon Israel, until The fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And that word until means there's going to be an end to this hardening. Paul elsewhere says that when the Jewish people read the scriptures, they have a veil that remains where they can't see Christ, but that veil is going to be lifted, and they'll be able to see that in their own scriptures Christ is clearly portrayed. And they will come to faith in Christ. But that's not going to happen, apparently, until after the gospel saturates the nations. So that means if you really care about the salvation of the Jewish people, Yes, Jewish evangelism, but also take the gospel to the nations, because the saturation of the world with the gospel comes first in the mystery that Paul is revealing here. And again, we don't know timing. This could be a long time from now. It could happen within our generation. We don't know. But when the fullness of the Gentiles comes in, Then we'll have the reconciliation of the people of Israel to Christ. And remember earlier Paul said that's going to bring tremendous blessings. Back in verse 12 he says, Now if their trespass means riches for the world, if their failure means riches for the Gentiles how much more will their full inclusion mean? Now I'm speaking to you Gentiles, and as much as then I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry in order to somehow make my fellow Jews jealous and thus save some of them. Verse 15, if their rejection means reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead? What does that mean? Something That's a good answer. Pastor, what does that mean? It means something. Paul's un unveiling a mystery to us, right? The gospel is going to saturate the nations, it's going to reach the fullness of the Gentiles. Then the Jewish people are going to turn to Christ, they're going to be reconciled back to their Messiah. They're going to believe, they're going to be grafted back into the olive tree, and then life from the dead. Two different ways of looking at this that you'll see among the Bible scholars. One is that it will be an unprecedented worldwide revival. The conversion of the Jews to Christ will just convince people all over the world, wow, Jesus really must be the Messiah. Jesus really must be the promised one. He really must be the one that we've been waiting for because look, all the Jewish people are coming to him. And so there'd be a great worldwide revival. The other is what you might think of when you think what life from the dead means, and that is resurrection. So it could be that when the Jews are reconciled back to Christ and they're grafted back in the altar tree, that's it. Fullness of the Gentiles are in. The Jews are reconciled. Now it's time for Jesus to come. Trumpet sounds. Jesus comes. Dead are raised. And it's the great day of the Lord. It means one of those two things. Most of the Bible scholars I trust lean toward the first, that it's going to be somehow a great worldwide revival. I myself, if you were to push me and say, pick one, I would probably say it sounds like life from the dead, it sounds like resurrection, it sounds like the second coming of Jesus happens at that point. But I don't know that that's true, but there's an ambiguity there, I think, in the text. Which often happens when you're dealing with future things, mysterious things. Does all Israel mean every single Jewish person in the world? Probably not. The Bible, the way the Bible uses all, it probably just means the bulk of, or a vast majority of, but hey, I wouldn't be upset if it was every single one. That'd be great. What does life from the dead mean? Does it mean Jesus comes then and all the dead are raised? Could be, or it could mean a worldwide revival. I won't be upset either way I'll be like, I'm in for whichever one. It's something good. We can tell from the text something really good is going to happen when the Jewish people are brought back to Jesus. But what Paul says about them next is very important and needs to be taken seriously by all believers. Because I started to read it to you in verse. As regards the gospel, they are enemies for your sake, but as regards election, they are beloved. For the sake of their forefathers, for the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable For just as you were at one time disobedient to God, but have now received mercy because of their disobedience. Again, what does it mean that we received mercy because of their disobedience? Paul's talking about the fact that it was only when the gospel was rejected in Jerusalem and Judea that it went out to Rome, to the nations. So they too have now been disobedient in order that by the mercy shown to you they may also receive mercy, for God has consigned all to disobedience so that He might have mercy on all. And here's the thing that's jumped out at me is God says through the Apostle Paul, regarding the Jewish people as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. So they are still a chosen people of God because of the promises made to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, David. They are still a chosen people of God. Are they the chosen people of God? No, we are the chosen people of God, and there's only one people of God. But there are promises that God made that He is not going to abandon. And ultimately, we should take comfort from that. We should take comfort from the fact that when God makes a promise, He does not abandon that promise. Even if it takes a long time for it to be kept, even if the path is winding and not what we would have foreseen, if God makes a promise, God keeps a promise. And so God will keep his promise that he has made. Paul's plan that he foresees this mystery that God has revealed to him. About how he's going to bring about salvation is so stunning, so unexpected, so surprising, and so wonderful that he concludes Romans 11 by breaking out in doxology, in praise to God. He says, O the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways. For who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor? Or who has given to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. And if anything else that you get out of today's message, it's this. We began with, lest you be wise in your own sight, and we're ending with, to him be the glory forever. Amen. And that is this. The number one ingredient that we must all have to study the Bible rightly is a worshipful humility. A humility that says, I don't have all the answers, I don't know what it all means, but God is wonderful, God is glorious, God is in control, and he is to be praised. All glory to him. I've been studying the Bible for a while now. Every time I do a youth retreat, I was gone on a youth retreat last weekend. Every time I do a youth retreat. The Monday after the youth retreat, I realized how old I am and how long I've been doing these youth retreats. So Monday I felt about 84 when I woke up in the morning. You know, you're only as old as you feel. But I've been studying the Bible for a long time. I've just told you. Like when I was in high school, early college, if you had asked me what this passage means, I would have said You know, I would have given you the dispensational answer. And if you would ask me five years ago, eight years ago, when I was the pastor of this church I would have given you the sort of reformed covenantal answer that would have said, no, there's no sense in which ethnic Israel are the chosen people of God. It's all fulfilled in Christ and the church is the chosen people of God. But this passage corrects that to say, as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of the forefathers. So they are a chosen people, a beloved people. And the Bible beats my systematic theology. And I can be stubborn and I can be arrogant, but God calls us to humility. And it's not just me. There's been a lot of uh covenant theology loving people like R. C. Sproul, Sinclair Ferguson who have embraced this view that all Israel will be saved, that God has a future plan for the Jews, that God does have a distinct plan for Jewish people that is not separate from his plan for the church. It's not separate from Christ. It's together with. They're following in the footsteps of greats like John Owen and Jonathan Edwards, Charles Hodge, John Murray. So there's a rich reform tradition of holding this view. So you're not alone. I'm not alone in holding this view, but it is it is a a a change, a modification as God continues to teach me from His Word. So, we stand before God in doxology and praise. Can anyone Can anyone plumb the depth of the riches and the wisdom and the knowledge of God? I think what Paul is talking about when he says riches is the riches of his mercy and grace. What mercy, what grace to take Christ rejecting violent, pagan, bloodthirsty barbarians, bring them to salvation in Christ and and you know, establish his church. What mercy to take us who are by nature rebels and stubborn and foolish and slow to learn. You know when I there's another difference between me in high school and me now. Me in high school, I'd read the gospels and I'd hear Jesus saying to the disciples Oh, you of little faith and slow to learn. And I'll say, yeah, what's wrong with those guys? They are such little faith and they are so slow to learn. I mean, Jesus is saying it right to them. What's wrong with these guys? Now I read it and I'm like, yes, Lord, I am. Little faith and slow to learn. But thank you that you're patient with me, just like you're patient with the disciples. The wisdom of God, the wisdom of his plan. Think about it. For generation after generation, God had promised that he was going to bless all nations through the offspring of Abraham, that there was going to come a promised seed, who was going to be an offspring of David, who was going to reign as king. And the people of God were expecting and they were waiting. But nobody would have guessed, even though it's right there in the Bible in Isaiah 53 and Psalm 22 and other places Nobody would have guessed that when the king arrives on the scene, the plan of God is for him to be rejected and humiliated and nailed to a cross because that was the only way for us to be saved. Wait, the king has to be rejected? What? The glorious one has to be humiliated? That's the only way for us to be saved? We would never have guessed that, but that's the wisdom of God. And Paul's saying in a similar way, we wouldn't have guessed that Jesus came to his own people as the fulfillment of Scripture, and the very people who had the Scriptures, who had memorized the Scriptures, who were waiting for Him to come would be the very people who would shout, crucify him, crucify him, and then would go persecuting the early church. Like that doesn't make any sense. They are the ones who should have known better And instead, the Gentiles come in. Who would have guessed that? So Paul says, yeah, and you're not going to guess, because in the future These Jewish people who seem to be the hardest people in reach with the gospel, they're going to come to faith in Jesus Christ because God's wisdom His knowledge of people, his knowledge of the human heart and human needs is so deep, it's far deeper than we could ever begin to imagine. No one could ever know or understand or search out the ways of God Unsearchable are his judgments, inscrutable are his ways. No one's ever advised God. This is a little off topic, but this reminds me, verse uh 34, who has known the mind of the Lord or who has been his counselor. It reminds me of something that I heard And that is a R. C. Sprohl was asked, does prayer change God's mind? And he said, What a terrifying thought. What are you going to do in prayer that's going to change God's mind? Are you informing him of something that he didn't know about? Are you explaining to him how what he was planning on doing wasn't really all that wise, but you have a better idea because you think that it should go this way? I mean it would make more sense for me to go out to the job site with Andrew Lacey and advise him on how to make things level and how to pour the asphalt and how to Like, he'd be like, you are wasting my time, would you please get out of my way if he's too nice to say that, but that's really what he should say Or for me to go to the hospital with Jonathan, you know, in the ER and say, Well look man, this is I I know I've never had medical school and you're you know expert doctor, but let me tell you you need to do this and that and the other thing be like, Come on man Like, prayer doesn't change God's mind. Now I'm not saying God doesn't answer prayer. God answers prayer. But that's because he's already ordained that he's going to use that prayer as the means of moving to accomplish his will. Our prayers have a purpose, but they have a purpose within the will of God, not against the will of God. We're not coming up to God and saying, God, I know you're really mean or I know you're really uh ignorant of this situation or I know that you don't understand all these things, so let me try to convince you and let me try to persuade you and let me try to inform you. No, no, no, no, no, no. That would make God terrible to think about. He's God. We don't advise him. We also never give him anything that we might be repaid. This is a direct affront to all forms of the prosperity gospel. Hey, if you give ten dollars on the offering plate, God will be obligated to give you a hundred back, because he said that he would. No. No. Doesn't work that way. God's God is no one's debtor and God doesn't need to be informed by anyone. Why? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. We have nothing but what God gave us. Any any little bit of understanding of the truth, God gave us. Any little bit of love we have for other people, God gave us. Any spiritual light God gave us. It all came from Him. It all came through Him. It's all to give glory to Him. And so we just say, Lord, you know. Your ways are right. We worship you. So we give all glory to God. But now what do we do? What do we do? Three things. First, we praise God and we thank him for his rich grace and mercy. If you're here and you know the Lord Jesus Christ, thank God, because you were no more deserving than anybody else. But God had mercy on you, because He's rich in mercy. So thank Him. Worship Him. But the second thing we should do is we should pray for and seek to reach the nations with the gospel. Jesus has commanded us to make disciples of every nation, every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. So wherever the gospel is not known, wherever the gospel is not present, We should be praying for, we should be working for getting the gospel to those places. That's why When we go to Uganda next month, we will spend some time in the Yumbe district among the Auringa people because they are the last unreached tribe in the nation of Uganda. But we will also, before we go there, we will train pastors and evangelists who are reaching out to the Republic of Sudan and to South Sudan to unreached peoples. Because that's the need. But we also should be seeking to pray for and reach Jewish people with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Because it's only a partial hardening. Can't write somebody off. Oh, they're Jewish. I can't really talk about Jesus to them. They'll get offended. It's no different than anybody else. Share the gospel. Pray for them. And pray that God would speed the gospel to the ends of the earth and speed up the day when they will be reconciled to Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for saving us. Lord Jesus, we thank you for coming for us and dying for us and rising again for us. Lord, we thank you that you have a plan for the nations. to reach the ends of the earth, every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, and to reach the Jewish people with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Would you use us as your instruments? Would you use our prayers? Would you use our giving? Would you use our going toward the end? That every people on earth may know Jesus, and that you may, in your good time, bring back the Jewish people into covenant relationship with you again through Jesus Christ our Lord. It's in his name we pray. Amen.