Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I'm going to be with you for this 1050th day. Together in the Word of God, day 1050. We're finishing up the minor prophet Amos with Amos chapter 9. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, would you speak to us through your word today? Give us ears to hear and hearts to receive and respond to your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Amos chapter 9. I saw the Lord standing beside the altar, and he said, Strike the capitals until the thresholds shake. and shatter them on the heads of all the people. And those who are left of them I will kill with the sword. Not one of them shall flee away, not one of them shall escape. If they dig into Sheol, From there shall my hand take them. If they climb up to heaven, from there I will bring them down. If they hide themselves on top of Carmel From there I will search them out and take them. And if they hide from my sight at the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent and it shall bite them, and if they go into captivity before their enemies, there I will command the sword, and it shall kill them, and I will fix my eyes upon them for evil, and not for good. The Lord God of hosts, he who touches the earth and it melts. And all who dwell in it mourn. And all of it rises like the Nile, and sinks again like the Nile of Egypt, who builds his upper chambers in the heavens, and founds his fault upon the earth his vault upon the earth Who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out upon the surface of the earth? The Lord is his name Are you not like the Kushites to me, O people of Israel, declares the Lord? Did I not bring up Israel from the land of Egypt and the Philistines from Kafor And the Syrians from Kir. Behold, the eyes of the Lord God are upon the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from the surface of the ground, except Except that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, declares the Lord. For behold, I will command and shake the house of Israel among all the nations, as one shakes with a sieve But no pebbles shall fall to the earth. All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, who say disaster shall not overtake or meet us. In that day I will raise up the booth of David that has fallen, and repair its breaches. and raise up its ruins and rebuild it as in the days of old, that they may possess the remnant of Edom And all the nations who are called by my name, declares the Lord who does this. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when the plowman shall overtake the reaper. And the treader of grapes, him who sows the seed, the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and all the hills shall flow with it. I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel, and they shall rebuild the ruined cities and inhabit them. They shall plant vineyards and drink their wine, and they shall make gardens and eat their fruit. I will plant them on their land, and they shall never again be uprooted out of the land that I have given them, says. the Lord your God. Hamas chapter nine. Man, it gets it gets dark and then it gets really bright, doesn't it? Because the Lord gives us this vision. The Lord is standing beside the altar. At the altar Two things are brought to mind. First of all is brought to mind the false, idolatrous, and hypocritical worship of the people Of God. They are not worshiping the Lord in spirit and in truth. They are worshiping the Lord selfishly by their own self-will and for their own self-glory. So that's brought to mind. But the other thing is the sacrifices, the atonement that is pictured at the altar that is ultimately going to be fulfilled in the cross of Jesus Christ. So the mercy of God. for sinners is also brought to mind at the altar. And so through this vision, we have the first part of the vision, verses 1 through 10, where Man, these idolatrous, hypocritical, self-willed people are going to be they're gonna suffer consequences. They're going to get what's coming to them. God is just, God is holy, and God is just and God is going to Execute his wrath on his people. And yet. Okay, it's that beautiful word accept that I repeated twice in my reading of it. Right in the hinge of this last chapter, which is in verse 8. Fifteen verses Seven before eight, seven after eight, eight's in the middle, and the hinge of eight is this word accept. Except. that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, declares the Lord. Now it becomes overwhelmingly positive in verse eleven, but that's the hinge because he says, I'm going to shake the house of Israel as one shakes with a sieve, but no pebble shall stand shall fall to the earth. In other words, Israel will stand. It will not be completely a sieve, not everything falls through. There's some things that don't fall through, the things that have more weight, more substance. The sinners, the hypocrites, those who are chaff. This reminds me of Jesus' parable of the wheat and the chaff. The farmer sows wheat in his field, but as the wheat starts to come up, an enemy comes in and shows chaff among the wheat. And the wheat and the chaff grow up together, and the servants say to the master, What do we do? And he says, Just let them both go and we'll sort it out at the harvest. And so at the harvest there's a sifting. A sieve is used for sifting. Remember, Jesus forewarned Peter and said, Satan has desired to sift you like wheat to see if you are of substance or not. This is what happens, this this great testing that comes upon Israel. is to sift them as with a sieve. And there will be a remnant that remains. And that remnant will grow into the Samaritans. And the Samaritans will receive the gospel of Jesus Christ. And they will become followers of Jesus, many Samaritans. In fact, there are probably more early Christians from among the Samaritans than there were from among the Jews. And so they they heard the gospel. But then starting in verse eleven, we actually get a vision of restoration that is yet to be fulfilled. That is going to be fulfilled in the new heavens and the new earth. Now it's given to us in poetic visionary language, but I think I think it shows us the earthiness of the new heavens and the new earth, like we will still be I think planting and harvesting and drinking and eating, we won't necessarily need to because we'll have resurrection bodies that will never be sick and never be in need and never Uh never lack but we will delightfully be able to enjoy the creation that God has given us. And it's Jesus who brings all this because Jesus is the fulfillment of that altar. Which is why it actually was important, like I mentioned yesterday when we were in chapter 8. It is important that the Samaritan woman wanted to know about right worship. What did Jesus say? Now the time is coming, and now is, when true worshipers don't worship on this mountain or in Jerusalem, but God is seeking worshipers who will worship him in spirit and in truth. For God is the Spirit. So we are Israel. We don't need a temple mound in Jerusalem with a temple on it. The whole world will be the temple of God. And even now our hearts, our our our our bodies, the church is the living temple of God. God is building, God is restoring the tent of the of the booth or the tent of David that's fallen. has been restored. King Jesus is on the throne of David. He's ruling over the house of God. It is more expansive. It is more global is more glorious than it ever was. There are many, many nations and parts of the world that have become Christian or int introduced to the gospel many people that have come to Christ. And then the glory will come. So just to be clear about this, I think where we are now is in the fulfillment of verses 11 and 12. The booth of David's repaired. It's been rebuilt. King Jesus is spreading this tent over the whole world. And then where we're going to be when Jesus comes again is verses 13 to 15. Behold, the days are coming. And the glory of this abundance is going to come. Sometimes we hear hard words from God's word, and we just think, oh. I know I need to repent. I need to I need to believe. I I I need to quit being so worldly. And here, God just wants us to receive this good word of blessing and delight in it and realize. If you're trusting in Jesus, if you've come under the covering of his blood, if you're under the restored booth of the house of David where King Jesus is your King, the days are coming. When things are going to be so gloriously wonderful, you won't ever have to worry about sinning anymore or resisting the world or repenting or the struggle or the trials. It'll just be joy. It'll be joy overwhelmingly, abundantly more than we could ever. Imagine mountains and hills flowing with sweet wine. It's a picture of just ridiculous abundance. Of grace and joy. It's coming. It's coming. And there may be many trials to go between now and then, but they're short. And easy. As the Apostle Paul said, I do not consider the sufferings of this present time to be even worth comparing to the glories that will be revealed to us, because what's coming is eternal. And the trials of now are but temporary. So trust the Lord and press on, even as we repent, even as we examine our hearts, even as we respond to God's Word. And turn our backs on the world again and again. Know that glory is sure and abundant and eternal and coming. Let's pray. Father in heaven, what a good word. You're so gracious to us. I mean we certainly deserve your punishment. But what you've purchased for us through Jesus Christ is eternal abundant blessing. Thank you. Help us to live for that eternal and abundant blessing. In the name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for the Book of Amos. What a wonderful book, this minor prophet. We're going to go back to First Peter tomorrow and pick up again with chapter two. Have a blessed day in the world. Lord.