Oh to the time. Things to go over things. Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and I hope you're doing well this morning It is day 1040 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we have come today to Amos chapter 2. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your steadfast love and your faithfulness. Thank you for your word. What a treasure it is. Purer than silver refined in a furnace on the ground seven times, sharper than any two-edged sword, breathed out by you and profitable to us May your word bring life to us by your Holy Spirit. Show us how to walk with you by faith, how to honor Jesus in our lives. We pray this in his name. Amen. Amos chapter 2. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment. Because he burned to lime the bones of the king of Edom. So I will send a fire upon Moab and it shall devour the strongholds of Kirioth, and Moab shall die amid uproar, amid shouting, and the sound of the trumpet. I will cut off the ruler from its midst, and will kill all its princes with him Says the Lord. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Judah, and for four I will not revoke the punishment, because they have rejected the law of the Lord and have not kept his statutes, but their lies have led them astray, those after which their fathers walked. So I will send a fire Upon Judah, and it shall devour the strongholds of Jerusalem. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Israel And for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because they sell the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of sandals. Those who trample the head of the poor into the dust of the earth and turn aside the way of the afflicted, a man goes into his f A man and his father go into the same girl, so that my holy name is profaned. They lay themselves down beside every altar on garments taken in pledge. And in the house of their God they drink the wine of those who have been fined. Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them. whose height was like the height of the cedars, and who was as strong as the oaks, I destroyed his fruit above, and his roots beneath. Also it was I who brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite And I raised up some of your sons for prophets, and some of your young men for Nazarites. Is it not indeed so, O people of Israel, declares the Lord, but you made the Nazarites drink wine. and commanded the prophets, saying, You shall not prophesy. Behold, I will press you down in your place, as a cart full of sheaves presses down. Flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not retain his strength, nor shall the mighty save his life. He who handles the bow shall not stand, and he who is swift of foot shall not save himself. Nor shall he who rides the horse save his life, and he who is stout of heart among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, declares the Lord. That is Amos Chapter 2. So chapter divisions you might know were added many, many years after the Bible was given to God's people at first. This was all just one scroll, the scroll of the prophet Amos. But many, many, many years later, centuries later, chapter divisions were added to help us find places in the Bible. And they make sense and they're useful, but they're not inspired by God. And this is a weird one, because I don't think that chapter two should start where it does, because you're in the middle of condemnations on the nations, and Moab is one of those nations. And then in verse 4 the attention turns to condemnations on God's people, Judah and Israel. And I think that's where the chapter break should be. So we have one more of the surrounding nations. What's happening here is remember Amos' target audience is Israel. And when he gets to Israel, he's going to stay there for a while. But he's kind of circling the wagons. He's like going all around to the surrounding nations and then even to Judah, who are also the people of God, before he lands squarely on Israel. So Moab is like the other nations. They are judged not according to the Mosaic Law, because they don't have the Mosaic Law, but according to the law of God that is written on their conscience, according to natural law, according to the common morality that God has imprinted on the human soul. And here they have violated it by burning to lime the bones of the king of Edom. Remember the Edomites are descendants of Esau, the Moabites, and the Ammonites are descendants of Lot by his daughters. And we know that Ruth was a Moabitist, so God did bring some redemptive uh grace into the line of the Moabites, but the Moabites here they were evil. They just did an evil thing, and so God judges them for the evil that they do by putting them into uh subjection. and cutting off their ruler and their princes. But then he turns his attention to God's people, and when we come to the transgressions of Judah, the people of God, it is because they have rejected the law of the Lord. That is the Mosaic Law. That is the Word of God. What God has commanded them to do. God holds his people to a higher standard because we have more revelation from Him. than the world. The world has enough revelation from God to condemn it. Men are without excuse, Romans 1 says. They know that there is a God, and they exchange the glory of God for images made like creatures. They worship the creation rather than the creator. There is knowledge of God, law of God, in a basic rudimentary form in the conscience of everyone. But God's people have God's word written, clear, accurate, perfect. We will be held accountable for neglecting that. And that is very serious. To reject the Word of God, graciously given, to refuse to keep the Word of God. There are too many of us, too many Christians who blatantly, willfully, unrepentantly, stubbornly reject the law of God. I'm seeing it, especially on social media, I'm seeing it spread like wildfire. This this really thumbing your nose at things that are right in the Bible, like love your neighbor as yourself. Like Submit to the governing authorities because they're instituted by God. Pay your taxes and don't bear false witness against your neighbor And whoever hates in his heart has already committed murder in his heart, Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount. We know these things. They're in the Bible. They're not they're not hard to understand. And yet, especially I think when Christians get on social media, they just chuck all that stuff out the back of their heads and they go in full attack mode and they slander. And they gossip and they backbite and they rebel and they badmouth and they hate. It's disgusting. So if America is coming under the judgment of God for allowing mothers to kill their babies for convenience, that's what abortion is And for perverting the natural law of God woven into creation that it should be obvious to everybody, the church bears a bigger responsibility because instead of being salt and light Instead of showing people the righteousness of Christ that is in us, the Holy Spirit who's given to us the Word of God, that is given to us. Instead of showing the world that, we're showing the world a nasty, ugly, selfish, fleshly, hateful side of us. And it gives them an excuse to say, you see, Christianity is no different from any other religion. Religious people are just zealous extremists who hate people. Religion is all about hate. And unfortunately, we give credence to that lie by the way that we behave ourselves on social media. and in other cases in the public square by certain people that we support publicly who who spew forth hate and division and Um just lies, slanderous lies. And we need to distance ourselves not. We need to repent. We, we, the church, we, the people of God, we Christians need to repent. Of being hateful, untruthful, slanderous, gossiping, self-righteous, hypocritical, and a bad witness for Christ. We need to repent. Now Israel becomes the central target, starting in verse 6. For three transgressions of Israel and for four, I will not revoke the punishment. They sell the righteous for silver, the needy for a pair of sandals, they trample the head of the poor into the dust of the earth. So you have oppression of the poor, you have sexual immorality of a gross kind, a man and his father go into the same girl, and then you have false worship that is that is blindly hypocritical. They lay themselves down beside every altar on garments taken in flesh. First of all, they're not even supposed to have these altars. If they're altars to Yahweh, they shouldn't even exist because you're supposed to worship at the temple. But then you lay yourself down on a garment taken in pledge, which is a direct violation of the law of God, which says you shall not take someone's garment in pledge. At least you don't keep it overnight. If you take it from them temporarily because they're gonna work that day and earn money to pay you back, then you give it back to them at the end of the day. You let them have it to lay on. It's theirs. And so this is a violation of God's law, it's a violation of godly standards. And then God says, look how good I've been to you. I not only delivered you from your enemies, but I sent true witnesses among you. So two main categories of things God had done. One, I delivered you from your enemies The Amorites, the Egyptians. And I sent true witnesses among you, prophets and Nazarites. And what did you do? Well You told the Nazarites to drink wine, breaking their vow. You told the prophets, don't prophesy. In other words, instead of being grateful for the deliverance of God and seeking Him wholeheartedly and listening to His witnesses, They were neglectful of the law of God, violating it wantonly, and when prophets said, you're violating it, they said, you shall not profit. Don't you dare tell us what to do. Who do you think you are and where do you get off and say I'm a prophet of God, thus says the Lord. We better be quiet and get out of here, or else that's the kind of attitude. That's still the way people act. If you confront people for their sin, knowing that this is a clear violation of God's word, you have sinned here, they don't want to hear it. They just flat out do not want to hear it. They will tell you to be quiet. They will call you names. They will accuse you of being something that you're not. I've been on the receiving end of it. And it's not fun, but that's part of being faithful to God. If you're gonna be a faithful witness, especially speaking the truth to others of God's people. people, you're gonna have to you're gonna have to deal with the stuff that people have always said about those who speak the truth, accusing them falsely of some sort of hidden motive or hidden agenda rather than, no, this is what God's Word says and we should obey it. So, the call today I think is a very clear call. It may not be a call we want to hear. Doesn't make us feel good about ourselves. But we should look back on the goodness of God. So just to end on a slightly more positive note in a heavy passage, Look at the basis of God's call to them to obey. God had delivered them. I destroyed the Amorite. I brought you out of the land of Egypt. Destroyed enemies, delivered from bondage. We've been given an even greater deliverance. We've been set free from sin and death. We've been set free from condemnation And our enemy, the devil, has been disarmed and put to open shame as Christ triumphed over him at the cross. That's what Colossians 2 says. So we have every reason to thank the Lord and obey the Lord, trust the Lord and walk with the Lord. The world and the things it fights over. You know, it's like it's like you're invited to a a feast. At the king's palace. And the feast is prepared. And outside the king's palace. They've thrown the scraps, you know, the the the cutaways, the discards. And there's packs of dogs fighting over them. And we Christians, instead of going into the king's palace and sitting down at the table and feasting with our king, we get in the scrap pile and fight for the scraps with the dogs. Instead of seeing other people who are in those scrap piles and inviting them to come into the palace of the king with us, inviting them. Hey, there's something better over here. There's a there's an open door and a gracious invitation to be reconciled to the king and come and sit at his table. We get into the into the fight with them. We need to love God by coming to the feast. We need to love our neighbors by inviting them to the feast. And we need to ignore the scrap pile. That's not for us. Do not lay out treasures on earth, but lay out treasures in heaven That's what we need to do. That's what we're called to do. And it's a privilege. It's an honor. It's a blessing. So let's repent and seek the Lord and love our neighbors in the name of Christ Let's pray. Father in heaven, there is no one like you, so worthy of honor, so worthy of our obedience, so worthy of our trust. You have the real and lasting treasure that our souls were made to enjoy. You and your kingdom. Help us delight in you. Help us to delight in you, to seek you, to follow after you. We pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Amos Chapter 2. I hope it was a blessing to you, and may the Lord bless you with a wonderful day. Have a blessed day in the Lord.