Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Hope you're doing well on our 1048th day together here. in the Word of God, and uh it's a wonderful blessing to be together. We've got less than fifty days left in our three-year journey through the Word of God, and uh let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, for your spirit, for your gospel, for your son. We pray that you would teach us From Amos chapter 7 today and write these this word on our hearts that we might grow in grace to love Jesus and follow him more closely. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amos chapter seven. This is what the Lord God showed me. Behold he was forming locusts When the latter growth was just beginning to sprout. And behold, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings When they had finished eating the grass of the land, I said, Oh Lord God, please forgive. How can Jacob stand? He is so small The Lord relented concerning this. It shall not be, said the Lord. This is what the Lord God showed me. Behold, the Lord God was calling for a judgment by fire. And it devoured the great deep, and was eating up the land. Then I said, Oh Lord God, please cease. How can Jacob stand? He is so small. The Lord relented concerning this. This also shall not be, said the Lord God. This is what he showed me. Behold, the Lord was standing beside a wall built with a plumb line, with a plumb line in his hand. And the Lord said to me, Amos, what do you see? And I said, A plumb line. Then the Lord said, Behold, I am setting a plumb line in the midst of my people Israel. I will never again pass by them. The high places of Isaac shall be made desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste And I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword. Then Amaziah, the priest of Bethel, sent to Jeroboam, king of Israel, saying, Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to to bear all his words. For thus Amos has said, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel must go into exile away from his land. And Amaziah said to Amos, O seer, go, flee away to the land of Judah, and eat bread there, and prophesy there. but never again prophesy at Bethel, for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is a temple of the kingdom. Then Amos answered and said to A Amaziah, I was no prophet, nor a prophet's son. But I was a herdsman and a dresser of sycamore figs. But the Lord took me from following the flock, and the Lord said to me, Go, prophesy for to my people Israel. Now therefore hear the word of the Lord. You say, do not prophesy against Israel, and do not preach against the house of Isaac. Therefore, thus says the Lord, your wife shall be a prostitute in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword. And your land shall be divided up with a measuring line. You yourself shall die in an unclean land, and Israel shall surely go into exile away from its land. That is Amos chapter 7. We have two halves to this chapter. The first half is a series of warning visions. And there's three of them. The first two, Amos intercedes and pleads for the Lord to have mercy, and the Lord withdraws the threatened punishment, but then the third punishment is going to come. And then in the second half you have the priest at Bethel, where the golden calf is, one of the golden calves, and the king. basically telling Amos he needs to be quiet and go home and Amos responding to that threat. So it's interesting the juxtaposition here because Amaziah or uh a and the king, they're they're hearing the words that Amos is saying. And they're against this message because it's negative. It's a message of judgment. It's a message calling for repentance. It's a message condemning the golden calf worship as impure. And so they hate Amos. They think Amos hates them. And they want him to go away. But the first half of the chapter shows that Amos loves them, that Amos is pleading to God to have mercy on them, and that Amos twice succeeded in interceding and uh the Lord relenting of of threatened disaster You see, people oftentimes get upset when preachers will preach the Word of God straight. and without compromise because they think, wow, that's a you're saying that we're sinful and you're saying that we're wicked and you're saying that we're idolatrous and you're saying that we need to repent. You just must think that we're hor Horrible people and you must hate us and you must think that you're all Self-righteous and whatnot. And with faithful preachers anyway, the th that is far from the truth. The words that are spoken are spoken in love. They're spoken because there is a need to be faithful to God's message. You can't change the Word of God, or you suffer punishment at the hand of God But there's also a desire for God's people to hear the Word of God that they might repent, that they might listen, that they might heed the Word of God and respond to it. And so is the case here with Amos. So there's a threat. The first threat is a threat of a locust horde. And a locust sword that would come at the most terrible time. Now, at this time, the the first mowing of of the grain, the first harvest would go to the king to support the kingdom and the defense of the kingdom and the army and the fortifications and all of those things. And then after that the people could take for themselves the latter growth. The latter growth was going to be eaten just as it was beginning to sprout. It was going to be eaten by locusts. So there would be nothing for the people and the people would starve in mass. And Amos intercedes. He says, Lord, please forgive. How can Jacob stand? He is so small. And the Lord relents. And then a judgment of fire that would sweep up and eat the whole land. And again Amos intervenes, intercedes, and the Lord relents. But then the plumb line. A plumb line is a way of measuring whether something is straight or not. When we go to Uganda, the buildings there that have been built by Reaching Africa's Unreached on the on the campus where we go and minister in partnership with them, they are built very well because Jacob Lee is a skilled builder. And one of the things that he uses is a plumb line. And you take a a weight that's weighted down and a string and you go to the top of the wall and you put the weight down so that it's straight. And you move it along along the wall, you swing it back and forth and move it along to make sure that it is straight. God's word is the plumb line. God's word that Amos has been preaching so faithfully that we have been hearing now for 1048 days, if you've been with us from the beginning, if But we God brings his word to us every day of our lives. God's word is there. And it's straight. And it measures us by itself. And we are all guilty. Thankfully, we have mercy in the Lord Jesus Christ. We have a gospel that if we believe, we will be spared. But if we won't, the gospel doesn't change either. The gospel is also straight and true. And it doesn't change Well, here the people of God have rejected the Word of God, which is why we we transition from the plumb line and the threat that in indeed the high places of Isaac, the sanctuaries of Israel, these are all the places of idolatrous worship. that they're all going to be laid waste. This is Jeroboam II is the king of Israel at this time. And so it's why right after this word about the plumb line Amaziah, Jeroboam, they come together and they tell Amos to go away. Go, flee away to the land of Judah, eat bread there, prophesy there. Never again prophesy at Bethel, for it is the king's sanctuary, it is a temple of the kingdom. Not the Lord as king. By the way, in each one of these intercessions that Amos makes before the Lord. It's a little bit of an unusual way that he addresses the Lord. Oh Lord God. And you'll see that Lord is capital L and then lowercase O R D and then God is all caps G-O-D. Normally if you see all caps L-O-R-D Like the Lord, the Lord relented. That's Yahweh. And so what you have here is Master Yahweh or King Yahweh. is how he's addressing the Lord, because it's Adonai Yahweh, the master, the ruler, the king. Yahweh. That's how he's interceded. And so that's that's a contrast to what Jeroboam says. This is the king's sanctuary, a temple of the kingdom. Jeroboam really thought he was the king, and his was the kingdom. He forgot that there is a higher king, that he is under, that he is a vice regent. Pastors can sometimes get this way when they think they are the shepherd of their local flock. They forget that they are an under-shepherd and not the shepherd. There is one king. And so when Amaziah brings word from Jeroboam II, go away, this is the king's sanctuary, this is a temple of the kingdom. He doesn't know what he's talking about because there's only one temple of the kingdom, and it's in Jerusalem, and there's only one true king who offers sanctuary to his people, and that's the king of kings, that's the Lord God Almighty. But Amos answers and says, I was no prophet, nor a prophet's son, but I was a herdsman, dressed for sycamore figs. The Lord took me from following the flock. He said, Go prophesy to my people Israel. In other words, this wasn't like something I went to school for and decided I wasn't five years old and in kindergarten and people saying, What do you want to be when you grow up? I want to be a prophet when I grow up. No, he was From a herding family, from an agricultural family. And so sycamore figs, by the way, are the figs for the poor. And so the the you can get figs from uh fig bushes, but the the the sycamore figs are Or for poor people. So by saying he's a herdsman and a dresser of sycamore figs, he has a humble, humble beginning. And God is the one who called him to prophesy. And God told them where to prophesy. And it was in the northern kingdom. That's the significance. You say, don't prophesy against Israel, don't preach against the house of Isaac. But that's exactly where God told him, go prophesy to my people Israel. And then there's a very personal threat from the Lord, a promise, not really a threat, from the Lord that comes back to Amaziah. Amaziah is a privileged person who comes from a wealthy family and who is basically the royal chaplain. He is King Jeroboam the Second's favorite. But The disaster is going to come, and when the disaster comes, Amaziah's own family will be disastrously affected by it. Alright, so what's our takeaway from Amos chapter 7? I think our takeaway from Amos chapter 7 is to remember the plumb line of the Word of God and make that The standard by which we measure ministries, ministers, preachers. Not do they tell us what we want to hear, not do they stroke our ego, not do they affirm us in our self-righteousness, but are they preaching the Word of God straight? Bringing the plumb line to measure the people of God and show us where we are out of line. Because if they'll be honest and show us the plumb line where we are out of line, we can repent. We can seek the Lord, and that's what we should do. When that plumb line swings and it and it nicks us, right, the heavy weight of the plumb line comes down into Ooh, it hits a ooh, stepped on my toes on that one. Ooh, hit me close to home on that one. Don't don't react in anger against the preacher of the word, against the one who's bringing the message and say, you need to Keep your opinions to yourself. No, take it as the word of God and repent and seek the Lord. That's what we need to do Sometimes the best thing preachers can do, ministers can do, is to hurt our feelings a little bit with the word of God that cuts close to home so that we might run to God for the mercy that we need. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. It is straight. It is sharp, sharper than any two-edged sword, Hebrews 4 says. It cuts. It's the plumb line, and it nicks us in places where we are out of line. And we need to hear it. We need to heed it. We need to respond in faith and obedience and repentance. So help us to do so, Father, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Amos chapter seven. We're going to be in Amos for the next couple of days, chapter 8 tomorrow, and then nine the day after. So let's continue marching through Amos together. Hope you can join me for that, and I hope you do have a blessed day. In the Lord