Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you, as we're now in our 1045th day together in the Word of God. And we have come today to Amos chapter 5. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Please speak to us through Amos 5 today. Call us to your will that we might respond to you in faith and obedience. and in love for all that you have done for us. In Jesus' name, Amen. Amos chapter five. Hear this word. that I take up over you in lamentation, O house of Israel. Fallen, no more to rise is the Virgin Israel forsaken on her land, with none to raise her up. For thus says the Lord God, the city that went out a thousand shall have a hundred left, and that which went out a hundred shall have ten left to the house of Israel. For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel, Seek me and live, but do not seek Bethel And do not enter into Gilgal or cross over to Beersheba, for Gilgal shall surely go into exile, and Bethel shall come to nothing. Seek the Lord. and live, lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph and it devour with none to quench it for Bethel O you who turn justice to wormwood and cast down righteousness to the earth, he who made the Pleiades and Orion and turns deep darkness into the morning, and darkens the day into night, who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out on the surface of the earth, the Lord is his name. who makes destruction flash forth against the strong, so that destruction comes upon the fortress. They hate him. who reproves in the gate, and they abhor him who speaks the truth. Therefore, because you trample on the poor, and you exact taxes of grain from him, You have built houses of hewn stone, but you shall not dwell in them. You have planted pleasant vineyards, but you shall not drink their wine For I know how many are your transgressions, and how great are your sins, you who afflict the righteous, who take a bribe, and turn aside the needy in the gate. Therefore he who is prudent will keep silent in such a time, for it is an evil time. Seek good and not evil that you may live. And so the Lord, the God of hosts, will be with you, as you have said. Hate evil and love good, and establish justice in the gate It may be that the Lord, the God of hosts, will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph. Therefore, thus says the Lord, the God of hosts, the Lord. In all the squares there shall be wailing, and in all the streets they shall say, alas, alas. They shall call the farmers to mourning and to wailing those who are skilled in lamentation, and in all vineyards there shall be wailing, for I will pass through your midst, says the Lord. Woe to you who desires the day of the Lord. Why would you have the day of the Lord? It is darkness and not light, as if a man fled from a lion and a bear met him Or went into the house and leaned his hand against the wall, and a serpent bit him. It is not the day of the Lord sorry is not the day of the Lord darkness and not light, and gloom with no brightness in it? I hate. I despise your feasts, and I take no delight in your solemn assemblies. Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them. and the peace offerings of your fattened animals I will not look upon them. Take away from me the noise of your songs. To the melody of your harps I will not listen. But let justice roll down like waters, and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? You shall take up Sikath, your king. And Tian, your star god, your images that you made for yourselves, and I will send you into exile beyond Damascus. Says the Lord of hosts, whose name sorry, says the Lord, whose name is the God of hosts. So used to seeing Lord of hosts, I've just Rolls right off the tongue. Says the Lord, whose name is the God of hosts. That is Amos chapter 5. Well, the Lord is lamenting over his people. But do you hear the tender heart of the Lord shining through here? Even as he is firmly rebuking them, even as he is Telling them what is coming in terms of judgment, he is inviting them to seek him. This is his word for us. We who sin, we who commit idolatry, we who give our hearts to the gods of this world, we who give allegiance to that which is not the kingdom of God God's calling to us. He's saying, seek me and live. Do not seek the gods of this world. Now, for the people of Israel, they were told they would be fallen and no more to rise is the Virgin Israel. And this word came true. The northern kingdom of Israel was taken into captivity by the Assyrians, and it never was restored as the northern kingdom of Israel. They are the ten lost tribes. of Israel lost because the Assyrians had a policy where they would deport the majority of people in a land and resettle them throughout the rest of the empire and then gather in people from across the empire and put them in the land. And so the northern Nation of Israel was no longer Israelites, but they became known as Samaritans, after the capital city Samaria. And we do run into them in the New Testament. They're the Samaritans, like the good Samaritan and Samaritan woman at the well and this whole area, but it's known as Samaria, not as Israel, and they are not pure Israelites. They are a mixed breed and they have a mixed religion. Some worship of Yahweh and some worship of pagan gods. This is what God is doing because that's what they wanted. You see, one of the ways God judges people is by giving them what they want. That's why we have to be careful about idolatry. Because sometimes the worst thing that can happen if our hearts are given to idolatry is that God will give us what we ask for, what we seek. The idol that we want. He'll give it to us. He ends this by by talking about that, even though he invites them, seek me and you will live. This chapter ends by saying You shall take up Sikhath, your king, and Keon, your star god, the images that you made for yourself, and I will send you into exile. You're going to have what you wanted. You didn't want a pure religion where you would worship the one true God according to his commandments. But you would do things in your own way according to your own convenience and a mixed religion of some things that are biblical and some things that are worldly. Fine, I'll give you the worldly religion that you want. That means you're going to be going into exile and you're going to lose your identity as a people As the people of God. The city that went out a thousand shall have a hundred left, that which went out a hundred shall have ten left. A remnant, a holy remnant will be preserved, but even that will be a mix. Multitude. And yet God continues to graciously call his people, seek me and live. Do not seek Bethel. Do not enter into Gilgal or cross over Beersheba. For Gilgal shall surely go into exile. Bethel shall surely come to nothing. Seek the Lord and live. Couldn't be any clearer than that. Seek the Lord, seek Yahweh, the one true God, and live. So even as God threatens, God is showing them the way of escape. But they don't do it. They would rather worship the stars than the God who made the stars. He who made the Pleiades and Orion. See, one of the features of ancient Near Eastern religion is well we still have it around today, the horoscope. That somehow your fate, your destiny, your personality, your character is shaped by the stars that are in the sky when you're born. the influence of the stars. And so there's the worship of the stars. But God says, don't worship the stars. Worship the one who made the stars. Don't worship the the sunlight. Worship the God who can turn day into night. Don't worship the moon. Worship the one who can turn darkness into morning. Don't worship the sea. Worship the one who made the seas. The Lord Yahweh. Don't exchange the glory of the eternal God for images made to look like man or creatures. Don't set your heart on the things of the world. Set your heart on the eternal kingdom of the one true God. When your heart is set on the things of the world, You trample the poor, but you're going to plant vineyards and not dwell in them? You're gonna I'm sorry, you're gonna you're gonna build houses but not dwell in them, you're gonna plant vineyards but not drink of them. You're going to build houses but not dwell in them. You're going to plant vineyards but not drink of them because you have number one worshipped falsely and number two lived selfishly. But God still, God still invites again in verse 14, seek good and not evil, that you may live. And so the Lord, the God of hosts, will be with you, as you have said. See, they're presuming, they're taking on the name of the Lord's people, the Lord is with us. But he said, I really will be with you if you'll seek good and not evil, if you'll hate evil and love good, and establish justice based upon the fear of the Lord and obedience to his commands. The people of God are in deep trouble here because they think they're okay. Because they think they are God's chosen people, that when the day of the Lord comes, it's going to be good for them. But God says, well, the day of the Lord is a day of justice. And if you're doing injustice, what's going to happen to you on a day of justice? The day of the Lord is a day of light revealing and exposing. Of wrongs being made right. If you're the ones perpetuating deeds of darkness, if you're the ones doing the wrong, then you shouldn't be looking for this. It's going to be a day of judgment for you. And they might say, they might say in answer to this, well, we we keep festivals, we make sacrifices. God says, I don't want those things. Why does God not want those things? God doesn't want external religiosity that doesn't come from a heart of love and worship. Take away the noise of your songs. I will not look upon your peace offerings. I will not accept your burnt offerings. I take no delight in your solemn assemblies, but let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream If the people of God truly are the people of God, not just in name, but in deed, not just in word, but in truth, then they will do what God calls them to do. So this is the word to us. We've heard it before in God's Word so many times. It's the word to us again today. It is simple, it is straightforward, it is profound. Will we worship God in spirit and in truth? According to his word, with loyalty, faithfulness to him, and will we then allow his spirit to transform our hearts? that we might live as his people, not just talk and say that we are his people, but live as his people. The day that this devotional is being released Sunday, November 10th, 2024, we're actually going to have a sermon from Isaiah 48 that's going to touch on many of these same themes. The hypocrisy of being called by God's name, but not in truth. And so the call of the Lord on us today is very simple, very clear. And that is God and God alone is our King, our ruler, our master. We need to follow Him. And we need to live the way He's called us to live. Not that we save ourselves by our own righteousness, it's the righteousness He gives us when we seek Him. But we live out that righteousness that He gives us when we seek Him. We live out the justification that is ours in Christ. We don't live for the things of the world. We don't give our hearts to the things of the world. What does that look like? Well What are your hopes? What are your dreams? What are your aspirations? What are you spending your money on? What are you investing your time in? What are you praying about? What are you pursuing? What are you chasing? What promises are you believing? What future are you living for? All of these questions should have a God-centered, Christ-centered, kingdom-minded, biblical answer. If God has our hearts. And He's so worthy. He's so gracious. He's so good. In the midst of our idolatry, he still calls us, Seek me and live. Seek me and live. Let's pray. Father, you alone, the one true God of heaven and earth, and our Father. You made us for yourself. Our hearts are restless until they find their rest in you. That's what Augustine said at the opening of his confessions, and we confess the same thing. We'll never find our hearts rest in any of the things of this world. Sports teams, jobs, careers, politics. Whatever. None of it will satisfy our hearts. But you and you alone. And that we can represent you, and that we can obey you, and that we can follow you, and that we can be used by you. What a privilege, what a joy that we can seek you and live. May we do so from the heart, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Amos Chapter 5. I pray that you would have a blessed day in the Lord and that you would join me again tomorrow for Amos Chapter 5. Six