Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I hope you're doing well. On this day, we are on Our 1043rd day through the Word of God, and we come to Amos chapter 4. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for your Faithfulness to bring us your word in such varied forms and in such wonderful clarity. And we pray that your Holy Spirit Would write your word on our hearts. Help us to understand the truth that you have for us here, and help us to respond with tender hearts of faith and obedience, we pray in Jesus' name Amen. Amos chapter four. Hear this, you cows of Bashan, who are on the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the poor, who crush the needy. Who say to your husbands, Bring that we may drink. The Lord God has sworn by his holiness that, behold, the days are coming upon you You, when they shall take you away with fish hooks, even the last of you with fish hooks, and you shall go out through the breaches Each one straight ahead, and you shall be cast out into harmon, declares the Lord. Come to Bethel and Trespass to Gilgal and multiply transgression. Bring your sacrifices every morning, your tithe Every three days, offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, and proclaim free will offerings, publish them, for so you love to do, O people of Israel, declares the Lord God I gave you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in all your places, yet you did not return to me, declares the Lord. I also withheld the rain from you. When there were yet three months to the harvest, I would send rain on one city, and send no rain on another city, one field would have rain, and on the field on which it did not rain would wither So two or three cities would wander to another city to drink water and would not be satisfied, yet you did not return to me, declares the Lord. I struck you with blight and mildew, your many gardens and your vineyards, your fig trees and your olive trees, the locusts devoured, yet you did not return to me, declared I sent among you a pestilence, after the manner of Egypt. I killed your young men with the sword, and carried away your horses, and I made the stench of your camp go up until your nostrils yet you die Did not return to me, declares the Lord. Earning, yet you did not return to me, declares the Lord. Therefore, thus I will do to you, O Israel. Israel because I will do this to you. Prepare to meet your God, O Israel. For behold, he who forms the mountains And creates the wind, and declares to man what is his thought, Who makes the morning darkness, who treads on the heights of the earth, the Lord, the God of hosts, is his Name. Amos 4. Very wonderfully and beautifully, Amos 4 opens up with a description of who the people of God So we have quite the contrast between the opening that's focused on these Affluent, oppressive, wealthy women, and then God, who is all powerful and all-knowing and all-seeing The Lord is calling his people to repentance, but they're not repenting. And so now Now he's telling them that they are going to be sent into exile in the most brutal way. First of all, he's addressing this particular oracle to wealthy women in the northern part of Israel, Bashin, richly Pastured land rich pasture land northeast of the Sea of Galilee. Cattle grazed there, tended to be very plump and healthy. So Amos compares these wealthy women to the cow That are on the green hills of Vation. These are rich women. They oppress the poor, they crush the needy, and they say to their husbands, Brother. Immediately what comes to my mind is Jezebel. Remember when Ahab wanted the vineyard of Naboth and he couldn't get Naboth And so Jezebel says, I'll get you the vineyard, and she has Naboth falsely accused and condemned to death and killed, and then takes the vineyard And gives it to Ahab. That's the kind of thing like just greedy, unjust, cruel. The Lord has sworn by it. His holiness brought in here in stark contrast to the wickedness of these women. The Lord has Swarm by His Holiness. But the days are coming when they will take you away with hooks, even the last of you with fish hooks. When the Assyrians took people into exile, very often they would force them to walk, you know, hundreds of miles, a thousand miles into their exile, and to keep them moving, they would put hooks in their mouth, hooks in their jaw. And they would lead them that way. So they would have to keep going. They couldn't slack back or or sit down. You'll go straight through the breaches. Your walls will be so torn apart that you can just walk straight through the breaches that are made in your wall And you'll be cast out to harmon. Why? Why would God do this? Well, he's already said part of it why. They're oppressing the poor and crushing the needy. That's in justice. That is greed and injustice. But the root of it really comes from a lack of the fear of the Lord. And that That lack of the fear of the Lord also shows in their wrong worship. Come to Bethel and transgress to Gilgal and multiply transgression. Bethel was one of the places where they put the golden cow. Bethel and Dan. Gilgal is an ancient site going back to the days of Joshua. And in these places, these are the places that northern Israel chose to worship. It's not places where God told them to worship, but these are the places where they chose to worship. So they're worshiping in the wrong place. They're bringing sacrifices every morning and tithes every three days, but what what kinds of sacrifices? A sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened. Ooh. You're never supposed to offer up leaven to the Lord. It should always be unleavened bread. Unleavened. And so So God's people here love, they love to worship God wrongly at a place of their convenience. At a time of their convenience, with a sacrifice of their convenience, not according to the word of God. One of the key principles that we hold to within Reformed and Presbyterian churches is the regulative principle of worship. The regulative principle of worship says that we must worship God according to the Word of God. All of our worship must conform to the Word of God. We can't make it up ourselves. Here's a great example here in Amos 4, 4 and 5. You understand what these verses are saying? When God's people violate the regulative principle of worship, they're doing worship according to their own desires, what they love to do, what they love to do, not what God loves to do, what they love to do is In the places where they want to do it, Bethel and Gilgal, not at the temple in Jerusalem, according to patterns that they want to follow, not a weekly tithe. But tithe every three days, sacrifice every morning, not morning and evening. So a time according to their convenience, and then the type of offering they want to do. So their worship is wrong because they don't fear the Lord. And if they don't fear the Lord enough to worship God rightly, they won't fear the Lord enough to treat God's people. rightly either. So wrong worship that comes from a heart that doesn't fear the Lord will also lead to injustice. Now God disciplines. God gives them, gives them. Cleanness of teeth, lack of bread. In other words, he sends famine. He withholds from them rain. So that they have a lack. He sends them blight and mildew. He gives them a pestilence just like what he gave to Egypt in the Exodus. He even has some of them overthrown, like when Sodom and Gomorrah were overthrown. In other words, he's treating his own people the way he treated the Egyptians and Exodus, the way he treated Sodom and Gomorrah in the book of Genesis, but they don't repent. Again and again, what do we see? Verse 6, you did not return to me. Verse 8, you did not return to me. Verse 9, you did not return to me. Verse 10, you did not return to me Verse 11, you did not return to me. Five times, you did not return to me. Therefore, thus will I do. The fish hooks are coming. You're going into exile. You're going to be taken out of the land. Prepare to meet your God, O Israel. Not in your improper worship, but in the discipline that's coming, that's going to be quite harsh. Because they wouldn't listen. They wouldn't repent. And so God wraps up this chapter by letting them know it's just who He is. How powerful is God? He forms the mountain and he creates the wind. How knowing is God? He declares God makes the morning darkness. He can turn everything on its head. He's that powerful. He treads on the heights of the earth. The Lord, Yahweh, the God of hosts, is his name. What's our call to us? The call to us, I think, in this chapter is oh so clear. We must fear the Lord. We're saved by grace through the finished work of Jesus Christ. We're poured out with the steadfast love of the Lord. The mercy of God, which is new every morning, God's great faithfulness, God's love for us. But we should respond to all of that with a trembling. Trembling to say, I must honor this God with my life. I must worship this God in reverence and holy awe As Hebrews calls me to do, for our God is a consuming fire. Hebrews 12. We must. We must allow the holy and awesome fear of the Lord to so grip our hearts that our worship is right according to the word and in spirit spirit and truth And that would overflow in our lives and how we treat others, especially how we treat others who have less than we do. That we treat them with kindness, with generosity, even as the Lord is treating us You see, if we presume upon the Lord in worship, then we'll have a a feeling of in of entitlement A feeling of self-righteousness, and we'll take that out into the world, and we'll treat other people with a feeling of entitlement and self-righteousness. But if we are humbled before the Lord, if we are awestruck and reverent We will realize how good God's been to us. We will be grateful. Oh, so grateful. And we will go out into the world in that spirit of thanksgiving Let's pray. Father, thank you for not treating us as our sins deserve. You are so holy. You are so just. You are so righteous. You see everything. You know our thoughts. You know our heart. And yet when we come to you in faith, when we pour out our hearts before you and plead for mercy, you are pleased to forgive us. To not treat us as our sins deserved. but to treat us with the kindness that Christ has secured for us. And so we thank you and we ask that you would give us the grace To worship you in spirit and in truth with love and devotion and to live for you. Worship By your word and live by your word. Every day of our lives, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Amos chapter 4. What a joy it is to be able to spend time in the Lord. Uh in the Lord's word together. Hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.