Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 1046. Our 1046th day together in God's Word, we come to Amos chapter 6. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, write your word on our hearts by the power of your Holy Spirit that we might know you, love you, and live for you In Jesus' name, Amen. Amos 6. Woe to those who are at ease in Zion, and to those who feel secure on the mountain of Samaria The notable men of the first of the nations to whom the house of Israel comes. Pass over to Kelnah and see, and from there go to Hamath the Great, and then go down to Gath of the Philistines. Are you better than these kingdoms? Or is their territory greater than your territory? Or oh you who put far away the day of disaster and bring near the seat of violence. Woe to those who lie on beds of ivory and stretch themselves out on their couches and eat lambs from The flock and calves from the midst of the stall, who sing idle songs to the sound of the harp, and like David, invent for themselves instruments of music. Who drink wine in bowls and anoint themselves with the finest oils, but are not grieved over the ruin of Joseph? Therefore, they shall now be the first of those who go into exile, and the revelry of those who stretch themselves out shall pass away. The Lord has sworn by himself, declares the Lord. The Lord God has sworn by himself, declares the Lord the God of hosts. I abhor the pride of Jacob and hate his strongholds, and I will deliver up the city and all that is in it And if ten men remain in one house they shall die. And when one's relatives, relative, the one who anoints him for burial, Shall take him up to bring the bones out of the house, and shall say to him who is in the innermost parts of the house, Is there still anyone with you? He shall say, No. And he shall say, Silence, we must not mention the name of the Lord. For behold, the Lord commands and the great house shall be struck down into fragments, and the little house into bits. Do horses run on rocks? Does one plow there with oxen? But you have turned justice into poison, and the fruit of righteousness into worms Wood, you who rejoice in Low Debar, who say, Have we not by our own strength captured Carnaum for ourselves? And they shall oppress you from Lebohamath to the brook of the Arabah. So, woe to those who are at ease in Zion Hmm. This reminds me of the musical Annie, you know, little orphan Annie. And when uh the lady running the orphanage and her boyfriend realize that Annie is, you know She she's been taken in by Daddy Warbucks and she has all this easy, comfortable life, but then uh Daddy Warbucks is looking for the birth parents. And they realize that they they have an opportunity to sort of fake their way in, right? They sing this song Easy Street. That's the song that came into my mind as I was thinking about this passage. Easy Street. We're going to be living on Easy Street. That's what they were convinced of. They found their pot of gold in this little girl and the rich man who's taken a liking to her. And they're gonna they're gonna be living on Easy Street now. They can just pretend to be her parents. And they concoct the scheme, but of course their scheming comes unraveled and And they end up in jail. Right? They end up arrested by the police by the end. So it is with God's people here. They think you see the northern kingdom of Israel was much wealthier. than the southern kingdom of Judah. And in the northern wealthy kingdom of Israel, you had the rich people at the top who feel secure on the mountainous side Samaria. They live in Samaria, the capital and around. And even though other cities have already fallen, they feel like they're safe. And God says, Well, go look at Kalna. Go look at Hamas, go look at GAF, these other great cities. Are you any better than them? Which actually they weren't from a human perspective. These cities were all bigger and stronger than Samaria. And so God says, you think you're going to put away the day of disaster? But then you turn around and you're bringing near the seat of violence. Why? Because you do immoral, unjust things. You lie on beds of ivory, you stretch yourselves out on couches, you eat lambs from the flock and calves in the midst of the stall, you sing idle songs to the sound of the harp. Like David, you invent instruments of music for yourself so you can have more leisure and more pleasure, leisure and pleasure. It's kind of the American ideal here You anoint yourselves with the finest oils. You haven't grieved over the ruin of Jacob. You haven't said, what look at our sin. Look at how decadent we are. Look at how immoral we are. Look at how unjust we are. You haven't done that. And so because you haven't, it's all going to come down crashing on your head. God is going to bring judgment. But even by warning them, he's giving them an opportunity to turn from this. Quit being self-reliant, quit being complacent. We need to be aware of that sometimes in life when we are most complacent, when we are most comfortable, but we're not aware of the wickedness. That's when consequences come. Jesus came to bring us life He came to bring us life in himself because he is eternal life. He is the true God. He is eternal life. But he calls us to hide our life in him, to find our life in him, to walk with him, to follow him. He doesn't call us to just live like the rest of the world, but, you know, sing a few songs. He calls us to find our life in him. I pray that we would do so. We've we've been hearing a l a lot of messages of judgment from the minor prophets. It's just it's just there. And it's just so easy. It's just so obvious to say, wait a minute, do you really need that fifth streaming service? When there are people in the world who haven't heard the gospel? Do you really need to upgrade your car and get a brand new one and take on that? Car payment when there's people who in need that you could help. I think these are the kinds of questions that we need to be asking ourselves if we want to have a word-shaped, cross-shaped, Christ-following, God-glorifying life. And again, it's not about salvation by works. It's not about trying to earn God's favor. God graciously invites us to find real life in Him, but it's what real life in Him looks like. Lived out. A life not lived for ourselves, but lived for God and for others. In worship and in love. Let's pray. Father, thank you for calling us out of our comfort zones and into a life of taking up our cross and following Jesus. It is true life indeed, to live not for our own creature comforts, our own leisure and pleasure, but to live for the kingdom. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, for this is your spiritual worship. You are not your own. You were bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body. Help us to hear the call of your word and to respond with joy and gratitude. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Amos chapter 6. I hope it was a blessing to you, and I do hope, as always, that you will have a blessed day in the Lord. And that's a day of living the life that Christ died and rose again to give us. A life of eternal meaning and purpose and joy in the Lord. That's what I mean by having a blessed day in the Lord. I'll see you tomorrow.