Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 1,039th day together in the Word of God, and we have come to Amos, chapter 1, the wonderful short book of Amos. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the book of Amos. Thank you for every part of your word. As we begin in the book of Amos today, we pray that your Holy Spirit would guide us. That you would write this word on our hearts, that we would take it in with understanding and faith and love and respond in faithful obedience to Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Amos chapter 1, the words of Amos, who was among the shepherds of Tekoah which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel Two years before the earthquake. And he said, The Lord roars from Zion. and utters his voice from Jerusalem. The pastures of the shepherds mourn, and the top of Carmel withers. Thus says the Lord, For three transgressions of Damascus, and for four I will not revoke the punishment, because they have threshed Gilead with threshing sledges of iron. So I will send a fire upon the house of Haziel, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben Hadad. I will break the gate bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitants from the valley of Avon. And him who holds the scepter from Beth-Eden and the people of Syria shall go into exile to Kerr, says the Lord. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Gaza or Gaza, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment. So I shall send a fire upon the wall of Gaza. and it shall devour her strongholds. I will cut off the inhabitants from Ashdod, and him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remnants of the Philistines shall perish, says the Lord God. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Tyre, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment because they delivered up a whole people to Edom, and did not remember the covenant of brotherhood. So I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour her strongholds. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Edom, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because he pursued his brother with the sword. and cast off all pity, and his anger tore perpetually, and he kept his wrath for ever. So I will send a fire upon Timon, and it shall devour the strongholds of Basrah Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of the Ammonites, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment. because they have ripped open pregnant women in Gilead, that they might enlarge their border. So I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour her stronghold with shouting on the day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind, and their king shall go into exile, he and his princes together, says the Lord That is Amos chapter 1. Now, one of the things I love about God's Word is how diverse some of the authors of Scripture are. We have people who were raised in royal palaces, like Moses, the author of the first five books of the Bible. He was raised in Pharaoh's palace, but he was of course a Hebrew exile living in Egypt. We have prophets and priests like Isaiah and Jeremiah who are both of priestly families and priests. and who were called to be prophets. We have kings like David, but also David was a poor shepherd boy before he became a king. We have fishermen turned preachers like Peter, and we have this shepherd, Amos Who is not a professional prophet, who is not from the ruling class, he's not from the priestly caste, he's a shepherd. He's kind of at the bottom of the social pecking order, and yet God called him to be a powerful prophet. During the days of Uzziah and the time of Jeroboam son of Joash, who is Jeroboam II. to keep him straight and clear from the first Jeroboam, who was the first king of the northern tribe of Israel. So this means his ministry overlaps with the prophet Isaiah, but he's primarily addressing the northern kingdom. of Israel during this time. Mentions that he prophesied two years before the earthquake. Archaeologists have um uncovered evidence of an eighth century B C earthquake in the seven hundred B C. Um Um could be the earthquake that Amos is referring to, in which case we have a definite date and some evidence to confirm what is written in God's word. Not that we need evidence to confirm what is written in God's word. God's Word. But it's always nice when they dig in the dirt and find things that are referred to in Scripture. So the Lord is roaring from Zion, and the first The first ones to receive oracles against them are the surrounding nations who have harassed God's people. So again, I've said this before, but I think it bears repeating because we slip into a mistake so often. So often we think when we read the Old Testament that Israel is like America and we s can have like an Americo-centric view. No, uh or we can think that Israel is the modern nation state of Israel because it's in the same place. But it's not spiritually speaking. Zion, Jerusalem, Israel is the people of God. the peep the covenant people of God, which today is the church. It's not so much that the church replaced Israel. I don't like the term replacement theology. I think that's very mis misleading. It is fulfillment and continuity. So the promises that God made to Abraham that through your offspring all the nations of the earth will be blessed. Blessed. And the for promises made to David that you'll have someone from your line who's going to sit on the throne forever. Those are fulfilled in Christ and in his people. Christ sits on his throne. as king over God's people, the church, and the offspring of Abraham are those who are in Christ. Galatians really brings this together nicely for us, but so does uh Romans 9 to 11 and other places in the New Testament. America is a nation of the world. So when we have these oracles against the nations, these are not the people of God that are being addressed. They are surrounding nations They're still held accountable to a moral standard. But it's not the moral standard of God's law given through Moses because that wasn't given to them. They didn't have it. Right? So when Damascus or the Philistines or the Ammonites or the Moabites are called out for judgment, they're not called out for judgment because of their failure. to worship Yahweh according to the law of Moses. That wasn't given to them. What they were given is basic moral decency that they should have as those who are made in the image of God. and who have the moral law of God written on their consciences. Read Romans two on that. Even those without the law, they have the law written on their consciences. So the conscience and morality tells them that they should not act in certain ways. Particularly God judges them for persecuting the people of God. So when we look at America, we say, well why would God judge America? It wouldn't necessarily be for not being a Christian nation in the sense of like worshiping the one true God because that's not necessarily the role of America in the world. All people, of course, are called to worship God. All people will be judged individually whether they are in Christ or not in Christ. I'm not talking about that. I'm not in any way leaning toward any kind of universal salvation. No, no, no. No. What I'm saying is nations as nations are to carry out according to basic rules of human justice and decency that are written on the conscience of men who are made in God's image and who have the moral law of God written. written on their hearts. So in America we could say something like abortion where you're killing unborn children, you've been told that you've been and shown the pictures, you've seen video, you know how traumatizing abortion is to an unborn child. You know that this is a child and not a clump of cells. You know it's not part of the woman's body, but it's a separate human being who's in their own little protected world and they should be left to grow. It's wrong to maim, poison, dismember, and kill that innocent human being. Everybody should know that. It is Captain Obvious right in front of your face. If you do it, you suffer the judgment of God. Enslaving people is wrong. Oppressing people is wrong. Violating the natural law of God that is clearly shown in the way that The world should work is is wrong. And for those things, God's judgment comes on nations. Again, individuals are judged before God. Either they're in Christ or they give an account for their works, in which case they're condemned. That's very clear. We see that in Revelation 20. We see that again in Romans two but nations as nations are judged and cursed by God for um we could call them crimes against justice. that that they should know about. And that's what we have is a catalog here of each one of Israel's neighbors being called to task for their crimes against God's standards of justice. for transgressions. For three or for four is the pattern here. In other words, it's not one thing, it's not two things, but it's three or four things. It's multiple transgressions. It doesn't literally mean three or four. It just means there are multiple things that you are doing wrong that you know you're doing wrong. Threshing Gilead with threshing sledges of iron. What does that mean? Gilead is the transjordanian side of the people of God. Remember the two and a half tribes of Israel settled on the eastern side of the Jordan River, on the other side of the Sea of Galilee. the other side of the northern part of the Jordan, and they were trampled on by Syria. This is what they're being called out for. So it says three or four, but only one is named. Well, because they did it repeatedly, didn't they? They trampled on, they ransacked, they attacked. They ravaged, they enslaved. And so God is going to judge Syria. And Syria is going to go into exile. Next we go to Gaza. That's the same place where the Gaza Strip is now, but it's in the news. It's on the um southern coast of Israel, on the Mediterranean coast. Now, I want to be clear about one thing. The people who are in Gaza today, the Palestinians, are not descendants of the Philistines, the people who were in Gaza in biblical times. Verse 8 says, the remnant of the Philistines shall perish. We don't know what happened to the Philistines. The Philistines were a Mediterranean people who came from the islands of the Eastern Mediterranean after a great earthquake somewhere around, we think, twelve hundred B. C. Um, it may have been the same earthquake that devastated the Minoan civilization on the island of Crete, maybe, but there appears to have been a massive earthquake that sent tidal waves and that destroyed many islands. And a remnant of those Mediterranean peoples settled on the southern coast between Israel and Egypt, on that southern coast, where the Gaza Strip is today. And those were the Palestinians. The Philistines are Arabic peoples. They're come up from a completely different line of people from the descendants of Ishmael from the Arabic tribes. So they're not the same people group. at all. And so you cannot, this is another way people mishandle scripture. They say, oh, the transgressions of Gaza, uh, that's the Gaza Strip. Therefore this word is against the people living in the Gaza Strip today. Well, no, you can't take a a Bible passage from 2700 years ago about a different people altogether and just try to directly apply it to the people of the Gaza Strip today. That would be a completely gross mishandling of scripture. So this is, why are they being punished? Well They carried into exile a whole people and delivered them up to Edom. We don't know exactly what this means It may be a prediction of what actually is going to happen. Sometimes God speaks of things in the future as if they've already happened because he sees the beginning from the end and he can talk about things So it may be that he's referring to that when the Babylonians came in and ransacked Judah and Jerusalem. The Philistines took some of the exiles who fled from the Babylonians and came into Philistia. They took some of these exiles seeking refuge, and they imprisoned them, and they sold them off as slaves to the Edomites. So on the southern part of Israel, on the southern part of Judah, to the west along the coast is Gaza, and to the east toward the desert is Edom. These southern peoples on either side sort of sort of came in and ransacked and enslaved the remnant of Judeans who survived. The Babylonian attack. Or it may be a reference to something earlier. We know, for example, during the days of Samson, before the kings, that the Philistines oppressed, enslaved the So there's oppression of God's people again. Now Tyre. Tyre's on the northern coast. It's to the northwest of Israel. And what did they do? They did not remember the covenant of brotherhood. They delivered up a whole people to Edom. So again, people fleeing. This might be a reference to some of the northern Israelites who are fleeing from a Syrian invasion or maybe Syrian invasion and they flee for refuge to Tyre, and they're sold. into slavery to the Edomites. The Edomites were big slave traders because they could sell people down into Egypt. They had contacts with the Egyptians, and the Egyptians used a lot of slave labor in the building of their great works. we celebrate today. It's one of my pet peeves, the way that we like to celebrate the great huge impressive buildings of the ancient world like the Colosseum and the Aqueducts. and the pyramids and like don't you know that was built with slave labor. Like hundreds of thousands of slaves who were treated brutally and oppressed. And most of them You know, the Coliseum was built for the entertainment of killing people publicly in spectacle battles or or public executions. The temples and the pyramids in Egypt were just built for the glory of the pharaohs. Like, I don't I don't think that kind of stuff should be as celebrated. It's magnificent, impressive looking. But I don't think we should say, aren't these ancient peoples wonderful? No, they were bloodthirsty, tyrannical, oppressive, and egumaniacal. In other words, they were people. Anyway, that's a whole nother story. I got off on a tangent. Okay. So for three transgressions of Edom and for more. Why? Because he pursued his brother with the sword. He cut off all pity. His anger tore perpetually, his kept his wrath forever. So there was anger, there was vengeance. And then the Ammonites have a disgusting description of what they did. They ripped open pregnant women in Gilead. And Gilead of course the the This same where we started the chapter, the Transjordanian people on the other side of the Jordan, where the two of the Israelite two and a half of the Israelite tribes lived. So when nations grossly violate God's known moral law, kidnapping, enslaving Oppressing, executing. Here's a reference to ripping open pregnant women, killing unborn children. That's why I got off on that point earlier about abortion. Um, it's wrong. Like people if you do if you're doing things as a society that you know are wrong Then God's going to judge you for it if you don't repent. And how does that judgment come? It comes by the society having a downfall In the ancient world, it was most commonly through being conquered by another power, but very oftentimes it's internal corruption and decay and collapse And so I think today's chapter is one of these rare chapters where we can say this is the word for America or for modern secular nations of the world. Don't do violence to God's people. Don't break God's moral law. Don't act in ways that you know are evil, or you will suffer the consequences. And I think that's what's happening in America right now, and I think it's going to get worse because we have thumbed our nose at God's moral law. And you cannot, you will. Galatians five says, Do not be deceived, God cannot be mocked. Whatever a man sows, that he will also be If you sow to the flesh, like America does, you will from the flesh reap destruction. Let's pray. Father, have mercy on us. Lord God, may your church be a light in the darkness. and salt to a dying and decaying world, that we might stand with King Jesus for the cause of righteousness, no matter what the world may say or do. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you for joining me for Amos 1. Tomorrow we're going to continue on to Amos chapter 2. Have a blessed day in the Lord.