Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On day 1049 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, we come to Amos chapter 8. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, a treasure of truth, if we will but hear it. And heed it. So would your Holy Spirit please prepare our hearts to receive this word by faith in Jesus' name? Amen. Amen. Amos chapter eight. This is what the Lord God showed me. Behold, a basket of summer fruit. And he said, Amos, what do you see? And I said, A basket of summer fruit. Then the Lord said to me, The end has come upon my people Israel. I will never again pass by them. The songs of the temple shall become wailings in that day, declares the Lord God. So many dead bodies. They are thrown everywhere. Silence. Hear this You who trample on the needy, and bring the poor of the land to an end, saying, When will the new moon be over, that we may sell grain? and the Sabbath that we may offer wheat for sale, that we may make the ephah small and the shekel great and deal deceitfully with false balances, that we may buy the poor for silver and the needy for a pair of sandals, and sell the chaff of the wheat. The Lord has sworn by the pride of Jacob, surely I will never forget any of their deeds. Shall not the land tremble on this account? And everyone who mourns, and everyone mourn who dwells in it, and all of it rise like the Nile and be tossed about and sink again like the Nile of Egypt? And on that day, declares the Lord God, I will make the sun go down at noon, I will darken the earth in broad daylight. I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation. I will bring sackcloth on every waist, and baldness on every head. I will make it like the mourning for an only son. and the end of it like a bitter day. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will send a famine on the land, not a famine of bread. Nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord. They shall wander from sea to sea, and from north to east, they shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, but they shall not find it. In that day the lovely virgins and the young men shall faint for thirst. Those who swear by the guilt of Samaria and say, As your God lives, O Dan, and as the way of Beersheba lives, they shall fall and never rise again. That is Amos chapter eight. It's a very sobering word. When people will not listen to God's word, God will take his word from them. When people will only listen to the things that they want to hear, God will sometimes just give them that. Just things that are not really the Word of God, but just things that they want to hear. Why is it that people don't want to hear the Word of God? Why is it that they only want to hear the things that they want to hear? Because They want to go to church on Sunday and cheat their neighbor on Monday. They want to go to church on Sunday and live like the world Monday through Saturday in selfishness, self-indulgence, laziness, injustice. They don't really want to be changed. They want just enough religion to keep them out of hell. or just enough of religion to appease their conscience and make them think that they're basically okay. But they don't really want God's word to change their life. lives. Well, God's word changes us. If we really hear it, if we really receive it, it transforms us from the inside out. But God gives Amos a vision of a basket of summer fruit. Summer fruit signifies the last of the harvest. It's the end. There were two harvests in Israel. There was spring and summer, and then after that would come the dry season. So they got the spring, they got the summer, and it's the end. And this is what God says about Israel. Even though Israel was the more populous, so a little bit of historical context to remind us or inform us. After King Solomon reigned, his son Rehoboam was foolish, and he would not listen to the counsel of the wise older men. Instead he listened to the self-serving, self-pleasing counsel of the young men who had grown up with him, in that when the people came to him, and asked him for relief from the heavy burden that his father Solomon had put on them, because Solomon was a great builder, and in the ancient world, if you were a great builder, you were doing that on the backs of the people. So they asked Ria Boam for relief, and Riaboam said, no. He said, my little finger is thicker than my father's thigh. In other words, I'm gonna I'm gonna make it even worse for you. My father disciplined you with whips. I'll discipline you with scorpions. I'll show you people how dare you come question me. Now the older men had told him not to do that. Now all of this was coming about by judgment from the Lord because Solomon was an idolater. That was the real problem. But idolatry and foolishness and injustice. We see that pattern in Solomon and in Rehoboam. Idolatry, selfishness, foolishness, injustice. So the kingdom split under Rehobam. Jeroboam I took the northern ten tribes, and David, the house of David, Rehoboam was left with two tribes Just Judah and Benjamin and some of the Levites. So even though Israel was a larger, wealthier, more politically powerful, more militarily mighty kingdom. At first there was a little bit of unevenness because Judah had been the sort of home base of the army for all of King David's reign and all of King Solomon's reign But over time it became overwhelmingly. There were a a couple of battles throughout the history that were fought, and most of the time Israel just whooped Judah because it was much bigger and much more powerful. And yet, and yet, here's the point. The end came upon them first, 120 years before Judah, and the aim the end came upon them finally. They were never really restored. They became the ten lost tribes of Israel. Why? Because they were consistently idolatrous. Their first king, Jeroboam. Set up two golden calves, one at Bethel, one at Dan. And the best they ever were were worshippers of golden calves. It got worse than that because when Ahab and Jezebel were in in command in the days of Elijah, they started worshiping Baal and Asherah, so completely foreign gods. The golden calves were ways of trying to worship Yahweh, but not in the way he commanded. It was idolatry. The wrong worship of the right God. But then they switched to an even worse idolatry of worshiping wrong gods, non-gods, altogether. So they were the first ones to go. Their worship, such as it was, was not anything because it was never faithful to God's word. If your worship is never faithful to God's word It will not change you. It will not be empowered by the Holy Spirit to transform your heart. You may have an emotional response, you may have an experience. It may draw a big crowd, but if your worship is never according to the word of God, if it's always according to the imagination of men, It will not be transformative. And so this idolatrous nation was a nation of injustice. When's the Sabbath going to be over? So we can make the EFA small and the shekel great. That means we're going to give a small quantity and charge a lot of money for it. The weight for the shekel they'll make it a little bit more than a shekel. the measure of the EFA they're selling a little bit less. So in other words, a small quart and a large pound for the weighing out the money. They'll deal deceitfully with false balances. We want to buy the poor for silver and the needy for a pair of sandals and sell the chaff of the wheat. We want to take advantage of our neighbors. These are worshipers. They're asking this while they're at worship. And God says, I'm going to deal with them. I'm going to deal with them, and they're going to suffer the consequences. There's going to be a famine, but it's going to be worse than actually just a famine of bread, because there's going to be a famine of hearing the words of the Lord. We see this if we fast forward hundreds of years to when Jesus met with the Samaritan woman at the well in the Samaritan village of Sikar. This is in this northern area of Israel That's what northern Israel became. It became Samaria and the Samaritans, which was really a mixed people, some Israelite heritage, but a lot of pagan foreign heritage, and they didn't know the Word of God. Samaritan woman asks, are we supposed to worship God on this mountain, like our people say? Or on the mountain in Jerusalem? I don't know. It's actually a good question she was asking. What's the right way to worship God? And of course Jesus came as the Word of God to give them the truth. But they were so deprived of the Word of God that they didn't know. They didn't know what God's Word was. But God did eventually have mercy on them, and it's interesting. That Sikar, the Samaritan village, is the first village to turn wholeheartedly to Jesus. Before that they were seeking the word of the Lord, but they weren't finding it. Because they were under God's judgment. So God had mercy on them. Okay, so what's our takeaway from Amos chapter 8 for us today? Well, it's hear the word of the Lord. I think this is just something so consistently throughout the prophets. I feel like I could just put the same message on repeat sometimes, but it it's we need to hear it. Right, we need to hear it. It's always so tempting to go with people who will affirm us in our selfish feelings, whether those are self-pitying or self-righteousness or self-justification, the sort of self-centered feelings that we have. It's always tempting to go along with people who will affirm that. They'll say, You're right. You are the righteous one. The problems we have in society, there are always those people over there. Or you are right. You are so trampled on and so wronged. People should treat you with more respect. Or you're right. You're okay. You're justified in doing this horribly selfish, wicked thing because so-and-so made you do it or such and such provoked you to it. Whatever it is, these feelings of self-righteousness. Self-pitying and self-justification, if we listen to voices that affirm those things, instead of listening to the word of God. We are putting ourselves in a spiritually dangerous place. And pretty soon we could be sitting in church wondering what time it's over so that we can go and do what we want. to do. Had a friend of mine say that to me, like, I like to go to early church because then I can get it over with and get on with my day. It's the Lord's Day. The whole day is the Lord's Day. But this friend of mine, again, this friend wasn't trying to be vicious or anything. They were just being honest. I like to go to early church. That way I can get it over with. and get on with my day. Well that quickly becomes I can't fit that into my schedule. I can't fit in that worship into my schedule for my day. After all, it's my weekend. I have to give Monday through Friday to work. So I have to miss church. And then just stop going altogether. It goes down this path when we give into the self-righteousness, the self-pitying, the self-justification leads to ungodliness. warped worship. I think churches make it worse by trying to make it way too convenient for people. Well you can come any one of six times on Sunday or Saturday night if that works for you or Saturday afternoon or just stay home and watch it online. Like Uh there's a point when you're over-accommodating to people's selfishness and worshiping God requires sacrifice. Living for God requires sacrifice. Living for God requires that you say no to self and yes to the word of the Lord. So let's hear and let's heed the word of the Lord as it is, not as it would, you know, scratch our itching ears. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are the King. There is no one like you. In heaven or on earth. You are the sovereign one, you are the holy one, you are the one who commands our obedience, for you are worthy and deserving. Keep us from this selfishness that is so natural to our flesh and so prevalent in our world and so tempting to our hearts. That we might live for you and love you, to glorify you and enjoy you, and find in you the peace and the joy that nothing in the world can really offer. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That's Amos chapter eight. We're going to finish up the book of Amos tomorrow with Amos chapter nine. I hope you can join me for that. And I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.