Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're back in the minor prophet Amos who is of the shepherds of Tokoah. He was a shepherd in the southern kingdom of Judah, but he was called to a ministry among the northern kingdom of Israel. We've heard the opening chapters of his prophecy. Now we're going to continue in chapter 3 as he's focusing even more sharply on Israel. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God and King, please speak to us through Amos chapter 3 and build us up in Christ that we might follow you more faithfully and obey you and love you. Trust you. Tremble before you as your holy people. For this is your calling on us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amos chapter 3. Hear this word that the Lord has spoken against you, O people of Israel, against the whole family that I brought up out of the land of Egypt. You only have I known of all the families of the earth. Therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities. Do two walk together unless they have agreed to meet? Does a lion roar in the forest when he has no prey? Does a young lion cry out from his den if he has taken nothing? Does a bird fall in a snare on the earth when there's no trap for it? Does a snare spring up from the ground when it has taken nothing? Is a trumpet blown in a city, and the people are not afraid? Does disaster come to a city unless the Lord has done it? For the Lord does nothing without revealing his secret to his servants, the prophets. The lion has roared. Who will not fear? The Lord God has spoken. Who can but prophesy? Proclaim to the strongholds in Ashdod and to the strongholds in the land of Egypt, and say, Assemble yourselves on the mountains of Samaria. and see the great tumult within her, and the oppressed in her midst. They do not know how to do right, declares the Lord, those who store up violence and robbery in their strongholds Therefore, thus says the Lord God, an adversary shall surround the land and bring down your defenses from you. and your stronghold shall be plundered. Thus says the Lord As the shepherd rescues from the mouth of the lion two legs or a piece of an ear, so shall the people of Israel who dwell in Samaria be rescued. with the corner of a couch and part of a bed. Hear and testify against the house of Jacob, declares the Lord God, the God of hosts that on the day I punish Israel for his transgressions I will punish the altars of Bethel, and the horns of the altar shall be cut off and fall to the ground. I will strike the winter house along with the summer house, and the houses of ivory shall perish. And the great houses shall come to an end, declares the Lord. That is Amos chapter three. Amos is called by God to be a prophet. He's called by God to be a prophet, to preach the gospel, to call for repentance, to proclaim the plans and purposes of the Lord to the vast majority of God's people. Remember after King Solomon, when Solomon's son Rehoboam became king, and Rehoboam's folly caused the kingdom to be split. Out of the twelve tribes of Israel, ten of them went to the north and became the kingdom of Israel, with its headquarters in Samaria that was established by uh by later kings. And the southern kingdom became known as Judah, named after the tribe of Judah, David's tribe, but they also had the tribe of Benjamin and many Levites. So sort of two and a half tribes were left in the south, but ten tribes in the north. They were the vast majority of God's people. people. Yet they were completely unfaithful because from the very beginning their very first king, Jeroboam, set up two golden calves, one at Bethel and one at Dan. And that's why the the altars at Bethel are spoken against here. God has always called his people through the years, whether it's Elijah or Elisha. uh Hosea. God has been calling his people through the years to repent and to seek his face. And now it's coming closer to the end of the time for the northern kingdom. And God has been warning them, but they haven't heeded. God didn't warn them because He hated them. God warned them because he loved them. He said, You only have I known of all the families of the earth, therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities. God warned them about their wickedness and was going to discipline them for their wickedness because he loved them. He wasn't just going to leave them abandoned. You think about all of the pagan tribes that were scattered all over the earth back in 2700 years ago in 700 BC, 750 BC. All of these tribes all over the world, most of them were just in the darkness of ignorance. They didn't have any word from God. They didn't have the care and the attention of here's my moral law, here's the way you should walk. Here's my provision for you against your enemies and for your good and for your building up. They were left in the darkness of ignorance until after Christ came, and of course the Holy Spirit was poured out, and the gospel went out to them the Gentile nations. But God's been gracious to his people to send this word. But they've treated it like it was just like the ravings of a madman. Everybody knew who the prophets were, and there were signs and wonders done, like through Elijah and Elisha, there were signs and wonders done to show that they were in fact the prophets of God. But they treated their words like they were madmen. It's the same way today. Nations that are privileged to have the Word of God. among them. Now America is not Israel. We need to not think that. But think about the English-speaking world and how we've been blessed to have the Bible in the English language. For 500 years now. We're coming up on uh 1524, 2024 is the 500th anniversary. of the translation of the New Testament from the original Greek into the English language by William Tyndale, which was then printed and published in 1525. For 500 years we've had the Bible in English and you have dozens of translations. It's very easy to access. It's very easy to read. You can go online. You can go to multiple sites online and access Multiple translations, free, easy, quick. The Word of God is not hidden, it's not kept from us. There are still hundreds and hundreds of languages in the world that don't have access to God's Word. So what have we done with it? Well, increasingly our culture treats it like the ravings of a madman. What's this ancient text with its weird language and its bizarre, hateful speech against people and blah blah blah. Well that's not that much different from how God's people responded to God's word when it was given. The lion has roared, verse eight says. Who will not fear? Well the people didn't fear. They just kept right on bowing down before the golden calf. When that golden calf altar was first set up in Bethel, a man of God, a prophet, came up and said, This is going to be destroyed to the ground. A king named Josiah is going to come and do this. It wouldn't be hundreds of years before that actually happened. But King Jeroboam, his his hand as he stretched out, was like, seize that man, his hand became like withered, and there was a sign right there in front of all the people gathered. They ignored it. They ignored it. Jesus Christ has risen from the dead. The prophecies about his life were perfectly fulfilled. The testimony of those whose lives have been transformed by Scripture are multiplied into millions. And yet, do even God's people The church, the named, called people of God, do even we heed his word? Can't expect the world to eat it if we won't eat it. Listen, hear. Obey. Learn how to do right. When this releases, we will have just had an election a couple of days ago. Maybe this is being recorded on election day, by the way. Um so I don't know what the outcome is Maybe we still don't know what the outcome is a couple days later. I don't know. But God knows. And do we act as if God is not in control? Do we act as if his kingdom is not real Do we act as if he doesn't really reign over us supremely? Or do we live our lives? with joyful obedience, confident love, and a bold witness to the world that needs to hear, like Amos did. Amos's life was threatened. We'll get to that later. He was told to be quiet. He was told to leave people alone. People didn't want to hear what he had to say. But he said it because Who could not do it? That's what he says in verse 9, 8. The Lord has spoken, who can but prophesy? So proclaim. He proclaims not only to Israel, but he also proclaims the strongholds of Ashdod, that's where uh the the the Gaza Strift area, the strongholds in Egypt, the Egyptians. Send out the word. God is coming to judge. God is coming to judge. And people need to repent. So here's the message. The message is Jesus Christ is Lord. He has overcome sin and death. He died on the cross. He rose again from the dead. He is alive forevermore. He is gathering in people from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. He calls upon people everywhere to repent and seek him. Him for the forgiveness of their sins and for eternal life, and to come into his kingdom and bow the knee to his name. And he is coming again to judge the living and the dead. And when he comes, every knee will bow, and every tongue will confess. But it will be those of a conquered enemy. Bow the knee As a trusting, longing, seeking worshiper And not wait until it's too late. And you're forced to bow the knee as a reluctant, conquered, disheartened enemy Let's pray. Father God, your words are true. All your words are true. May we believe them and speak them and live them. To the glory of your name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. That is Amos chapter 3. We're going to continue to Amos chapter 4 tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord