Good morning and welcome to week three of our Advent Devotionals on Scripture and Carol. and Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Today as we begin week three, we're turning to a more joyful tone of the announcement of the birth of Jesus and shifting really from Advent carols to Christmas carols, although last week was kind of a transition. week in that way. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and for this time that we can spend together thinking about you, thinking about the birth of your son. appreciating the rich heritage of carols that we have within the church and taking time to reflect on your word. Please be with us. By your Holy Spirit speak to us and deepen our appreciation for Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. Angels, we have heard on high is our carol for today. It is a traditional French carol that was then translated into English by James Chadwick in 1862. And the obvious background for this is the appearance of the angels to the shepherds in the fields outside of Bethlehem. So this is Luke 2, 8-15. And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by night And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord And this will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace. among those with whom he is pleased. When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. Well, first one angel, an angel of the Lord, an unnamed angel. He appears, and the glory of the Lord shines with this angel, and these shepherds are filled with great fear. One of the things that our little church nativity plays and some of the cartoon and movies that we've seen over the years have done is they sort of taken away the awe and the glory and the the fearfulness of the appearance of this angel. This was not some kid in a cheap costume with a tinsel halo This is the glory of God shining through behind this angel and through this angel to these shepherds, filling them with great fear. So the angel has to calm their fears before he can deliver the good news. But he comes bearing good news, good news of great joy for all the people. The announcement of the angels as messengers. In Greek, Angelos means messenger. And that is probably the primary role of angels in Scripture. They're also warriors. These are the two roles we see for angels in scripture, messengers and warriors. And here is the messenger role from this angel. But really the carol focuses on what happens next, and that is after the announcement of the good news. There is suddenly, I like that word, suddenly, there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts. We don't know how many, a huge number. of the heavenly host, an angel choir, filling the sky, praising God and saying loudly, clearly, Gloriously, glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased Now you may be familiar with the shorter version for like the King James, glory to God in the highest, and peace on earth to men. But it's really Uh peace on earth. It's not peace on earth, goodwill to men. It's really peace on earth to men of good will, or to men of his goodwill. That's the better way to translate the original Greek. Glory to God on the highest. Peace on earth to men of his good will, and not peace on earth goodwill to men. So peace on earth to men of his good will, and that's why the ESV renders it, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. This is good news. The coming of Jesus into the world is absolutely good news for the world, for all the people All which people? All the people with whom God is pleased, all the people who are people of faith. Without faith it is impossible to please God, Hebrews 11 tells us. So Jesus comes into the world as the Savior for all who will trust in him, bringing good news of great joy, even eternal joy, for all who will trust in him. And so for us, the challenge, the invitation, is will we trust in Jesus? Will we receive the good news as good news for us? and receive the great joy as great joy for us by not just hearing of it, letting it go in one ear and out the other, saying, Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've heard this all before, but really believing, really receiving, and really rejoicing. Then we'll be prepared to sing with the angels, glory to God in the highest, because we'll know the depth of that good news that all of our sins are forgiven. that we are redeemed from our lost and condemned condition, that we are reconciled to the God of the universe, even adopted into his own family. We have life because Jesus came to the rescue for us. Amen. Well, let's think about this carol a little bit more. This is not something that began as a church carol, but as a country folk song. a country folk song from the Languedoc region of France during the 18th century, that is during the 1700s. We actually don't know how far back it goes. because the first time it appeared printed in text was eighteen forty two, but we know that it had already been around for for decades before that. It's certainly going back to the seventeen hundreds, that's why it says eighteenth century. Maybe even farther back than that. No one knows for sure. It's one of these mysterious traditional folk songs. Probably was added to over the years and adapted. There probably were different versions sung in different villages. but it had been around for a long time. Now the original title is not Angels We Have Heard On High, but rather The Angels in Our Countryside, Les An dans nos campagnes, the Angels in Our Countryside. And the theme of this is a call and response structure, mimicking a conversation between the shepherds calling out to one another across the hills. The the lyrics in French, we're gonna look actually look at the French lyrics first and then the English translation because it's a little more rustic, a little more focused on the countryside. And it's a little more uh dramatic in its language, actually. I I I like the French version. It's it's really powerful. Um and so it was it was circulated in oral tradition. It was printed in eighteen forty-two. And then uh later An English translation was made about 20 years later by a Catholic bishop in England named James Chadwick. So here's the original. The angels in our countryside have intoned the hymn of the heavens, and the echo of our mountains retells this melodious song. Shepherds? For whom is this party? What is the object of all these songs? What conqueror? What conquest? merits these triumphant cries. That's what I like. That uh Kelvanqueur, Kel Conquette What conqueror, what conquest, what what vanquisher, right? What conquest. It's a very dramatic and powerful uh way of talking about the coming of Jesus as light into the darkness, as the one who comes to conquer Satan's kingdom and to usher in the fullness of the kingdom of God. I like that French verse. Verse 3, they announce the birth of the liberator of Israel. And full of gratitude they sing on this solemn day. Let us seek the happy village. that saw him born under its roofs. Let us offer him the tender homage of both our hearts and our voices. So when Bishop Chadwick sat down in 1862, 20 years after the French version appeared And he made this translation. It was a very loose translation, as we'll see, because that's the French, and here's the English that we're so familiar with. Angels we have heard on high, sweetly singing o'er the plains And the mountains in reply, echoing their joyous strains. Shepherds, why this Jubilee? Why your joyous strains prolonged. What the gladsome tidings be. Not not the conqueror conquering, which is sort of gladsome tidings, which is fine. What the gladsome tidings be, which inspire your heavenly song. Come to Bethlehem and see him whose birth the angels sing, Come adore on bended knee, Christ the Lord, the newborn king. See him in a language manger laid whom the choirs of angels praise. Mary, Joseph, lend your aid while our hearts in love we raise. Now in the Trinity hymnal that we use it in Forest Hill, we don't have that fourth verse. It's just the first three verses. And then the chorus. The chorus remains completely unchanged in both words and tune because it's in Latin. Gloria in excelsis deo, and that is glory to God in the highest. That is the chorus of the angels. Glory to God in the highest. Glory to God in the highest. Let's pray. All glory to you, O God, in the highest heavens and on earth, because you have sent your Son, the conqueror, the vanquisher of evil, the conqueror of night. The slayer of our sin, the destroyer of our destruction. What a wonderful thing to think that this baby in the manger had come. To conquer sin and death and hell for us and for our salvation. So let us worship him from our hearts in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me. Now let's listen together to Angels We Have Heard On High. We have heard on high sweetly singing place, and the mountain reply. And always joy. Santis Great glory. Excuse me, see you. Sever do I did you believe by your joy it rains for long for See him in a mangelate, whom the choir of angels praise Mary Jose. Rain you raise while our hearts in love we raise.