Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and we are here on our fifth week. We're in the Gospel of Matthew Chapter 9, verses 14 to 38, today we're asking the question, are you praying for laborers for the harvest field? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time we can spend in your word. Thank you for the truth of your word. Thank you for your Son, our Savior. Please write your word on our hearts and help us to live by faith for you and your glory in all things in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew chapter 9, verse 14. Then the disciples of John came to him saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them, Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch tears away from the garment, and a worse tear is made. Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst, and the wine is spilled, and the skins are destroyed. But new wine is put into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved. While he was saying these things to them, behold a ruler came in and knelt before him, saying My daughter has just died, but come and lay your hand on her and she will live. And Jesus rose and followed him with his disciples, and behold, A woman who had suffered a discharge of blood for twelve years, came up behind him and touched the fringe of his garment. For she said to herself, If I only touch his garment, I will be made well Jesus turned and seeing her, said, Take heart, daughter, your faith has made you well. And instantly the woman was made well. And when Jesus came to the ruler's house and saw the flute players and the crowd making a commotion, he said, Go away, for the girl is not dead, but sleeping, and they laughed at him. But When the crowd had been put outside, he went in and took her by the hand, and the girl arose, and the report of this went through all that district. And as Jesus passed on from there, two blind men followed him, crying aloud, Have mercy on us, son of David! When he entered the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? They said to him, Yes, Lord. Then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith, let it be done to you And their eyes were opened, and Jesus sternly warned them, See that no one knows about it. But they went away and spread his fame through all that district And as they were going away, behold, a demon-oppressed man, who was mute, was brought to him. And when the demon had been cast out, the mute man spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, Never has anything like this been seen in Israel. But the Pharisees said, He casts out demons by the prince of demons. And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. When we see people all around us living their lives without God, how do we respond? Do we scorn them and condemn them? Do we think ourselves better than they are? Do we write them off as hopeless causes? Jesus, who had more justification to be self-righteous and judgmental than anyone else, had compassion on people who were harassed and helpless. like sheep without a shepherd, verse 36 says. Jesus not only had compassion on the lost people he encountered every day, but he also challenged his disciples to have the same compassion. and to translate that compassion into specific action, prayer. He taught his disciples to see these unbelievers not as hopeless. but is ready for harvest and to pray for more laborers to go into the harvest field. Do we see and pray this way? I think there's several reasons why we fail to see and pray as Jesus asks us to, and and here are three of them. One, I think we're too caught up in our own personal concerns to even notice the unbelievers around us. We all have busy lives, our families seem to need constant attention. We have work pressures, challenges in our marriages, difficulties with our children, personal struggles with sin. All these things tend to crowd out a real view of our neighbors and their spiritual needs. I think secondly, we don't believe that God can save certain people. We tend to write off certain people or certain groups as as hopeless beyond saving. When we do this, we show our own pride and our own forgetfulness. How many times has God saved the seemingly hopeless? How many times has God brought a great harvest in an unlikely field? Do we really think that we are better than these other people? And the Lord saved us. Third, maybe we're trusting in politics or social programs to fix things. Sometimes we don't pray for evangelism. and the advance of the gospel because we're seeking to build the kingdom through lesser means, means that God has not appointed. Maybe we're trusting too much in the ballot box. in the grassroots political campaigns, in community organization efforts, in government-sponsored social programs. The gospel is the power of God for salvation, and nothing else is. So what do we do? It is as simple and as hard as this. We need to repent of our failure to pray. and get on our knees before our Father, asking him to send workers into his ripe and ready harvest fields Maybe he'll even use our prayers to prepare and send us. Let's take a look at Psalm 21, and we're going to read this and then pray together. To the choir master, a psalm of David. O Lord, in your strength the King rejoices And in your salvation, how greatly he exalts. You have given him his heart's desire, and have not withheld the request of his lips. For you meet him with rich blessings. You set a crown of fine gold upon his head. He asked life of you, and you gave it to him, length of days for ever and ever. His glory is great through your salvation splendor and majesty you bestow on him, for you make him most blessed forever. You make him glad with the joy of your presence, for the king trusts in the Lord. And through the steadfast love of the Most High, he shall not be moved. Your hand will find out all your enemies. Your right hand will find out those who hate you. You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear. The Lord will swallow them up in his wrath. And fire will consume them. You will destroy their descendants from the earth and their offspring from among the children of man. Though they plot evil against you, though they devise mischief, they will not succeed. For you will put them to flight. You will aim at their faces with your bows. Be exalted, O Lord, in your strength. We will sing and Praise your power. Psalm twenty-one gives us a good fodder for praying what we just learned about in the Gospels for laborers for the harvest. How so? Well, the king who's being celebrated here is of course Jesus Christ. He is the king. He's been given length of days forever and ever. His glory is great. Splendor and majesty have been bestowed on him And look what verse 2 says. You have given him his heart's desire, and have not withheld the request of his lips. Jesus Told us to pray for laborers for the harvest field. Jesus told us the fields are white unto harvest. One of the ways that the hand of God finds out his enemies is by bringing them to Christ and making them his own citizens and his own children, like he did with the Apostle Paul. He will come in judgment, of course, at the end of the age, but he reigns now, and God the Father will not r withhold from him The request of his lips, which includes laborers for the harvest field. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that Jesus came into this world to save sinners, including us. We thank you that you, by your Holy Spirit, sought us out and saved us. And there were laborers in the harvest field. We heard the gospel from someone. who shared the gospel with us and prayed for us and brought us to the Lord. It might have been a parent or a pastor or a youth pastor or an evangelist. There were workers in the harvest field. That's how we came to know you. We thank you for them. We thank you for our glorious King who reigns over all things, who lives forever and ever. We thank you that you've promised that you will not withhold what he asks for. You will give him. The desire of his heart, the request of his lips. And our Lord told us to pray for laborers for the harvest field. So we pray that, Lord. We pray that here in our own communities, in our own nation, there would be people to take the gospel, to proclaim Jesus. To win the lost by the power of your Holy Spirit and that the gospel would advance to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation on the face of the earth Give to your son the inheritance of the nations, the people for his own possession, the people he died to redeem. Bring them by your Holy Spirit And Father, if it be your will, use us. We are here. Use us. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today for walking in the Gospels. We're going to come back again tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.