Good morning, good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we're getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We've come to the end of week four our fifth and final day in this week, as we're in Matthew chapter 9. And we are asking an odd question today, but an important question. Are you too good for Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It's powerful. It convicts us. It exposes us. We pray that you'd speak to us through your word today. And grow us in our love for Jesus and our trust in Him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew chapter 9, verses 1 to 13. And getting into a boat he crossed over and came to his own city. And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Take heart, my son. And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, This man is blaspheming. But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier to say your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise and walk, but that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he then said to the paralytic, Rise, pick up your bed. and go home. And he rose and went home. When the crowds saw it, they were afraid, and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, Follow me, and he rose and followed him And as Jesus reclined at table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were reclining with Jesus and his disciples. And when the Pharisees saw this They said to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? But when he heard it, he said, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. Go and learn what this means. I desire mercy and not sacrifice, for I came not to call the righteous, but sinners Today's gospel reading, we find the scribes and the Pharisees shocked and disgusted that Jesus should pronounce forgiveness of a paralytic's sins and that he should eat with tax collectors and sins. To these objections from the leading religious people in his culture, Jesus asserted his authority and he emphasized his mission. So first his authority. When the scribes scoffed at Jesus' pronouncement of forgiveness, he replied by demonstrating that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins by healing the paralytic for all to see. The scribes were the experts in the law of Moses, the ones who were skilled at interpreting and pronouncing the law. They knew about condemnation And they were scandalized by such generous forgiveness. And then his mission, the Pharisees had their turn to be shocked in verses nine to thirteen, when they were scandalized over Jesus' dinner companions. Surely a righteous religious role model, which is what the Pharisees thought they were would never dine with such unacceptable people. But Jesus rebuked them by telling them that he had come for the sick and the sinners, not for the so called righteous, which the Pharisees thought they were You see, it's not what the Pharisees actually were. It's not that they didn't really need a doctor, but they thought they were well. They thought they didn't need a Savior, and because they were, Jesus was of no use to them. They had no use for a great physician savior. So what about us? Are we quick to condemn the sinners and to think ourselves above such people? Are we quick to scoff at the claims of some people to be forgiven, thinking that surely God wouldn't have anything to do with such people. In other words, do we think that we're too good for Jesus, even while we might claim to be his follower and to trust in him? Because Jesus' mission today is the same as it was 2,000 years ago. He came to heal the spiritually sick. He came to call sinners to salvation. If you're a follower of Jesus, you claim to be a follower of Jesus, the last thing that we can be is judgmental or exclusionary toward those who would come to him for healing and forgiveness. Alright, let's go now to Psalm 20. Psalm 20 is written to the choir master. It's a Psalm of David. May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble. May the name of the God of Jacob protect you. May He send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion. May He remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices. May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans. May we shout for joy over your salvation and in the name of our God set up our banners. May the Lord fulfill all your petitions. Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed. He will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand. Some trust in chariots, some in horses, but we trust in the name of the Lord our God. They collapse and fall, but we rise and stand upright. O Lord, save the King. May he answer us when we call. Let's pray. O Lord, our sin gets us into great trouble. And sometimes we can trust in our own righteousness, our own obedience, our own self-discipline to overcome our sin, but we can't. We need a Savior. We need the King. The King whom you have rescued from death. Jesus the Christ, the one who is alive forevermore. We need Him to answer us when we call. We need Him to be the strength. To be the one who saves us from sin and death. And we need to be gracious and tell others who are struggling with sin, who are trapped. Who are far from you. We need to tell them about this king, about the one who is trustworthy, about the one who is able to raise them up And save them. And make them well and whole again. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, that brings to an end our fourth week together. By the way, we are praying these psalms, but I'm not doing any teaching on the psalm. If you want teaching on the Psalms, I've actually taught on every psalm in the Bible, and you can find those on the YouTube channel or on sermon audio, any place where you're getting these, you could go through and search for the psalm. So if we're praying the psalm and you think, well, there's a lot of that psalm I don't understand. understand or I don't see quite the connection, just go ahead and look for the teaching that I did on that psalm and hopefully it will be helpful to you. If you have any questions about anything that you hear from me Uh I'd love to answer that and respond to you. You can email me. My email address is pastor at foresthillpca. org. That's pastor at foresthillpca. org. Have a blessed day in the Lord.