Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is going to be with you here for day five of our fifth. of our tenth week together. So this is our 50th devotional. We're going to be looking at Matthew 22, verses 1 to 22, and then turning over to Psalm 51. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for your Son, our Savior. Thank you for the truth that He taught us, for the life that He lived for us. For the death that he died in our place, and for his victory over death and his resurrection. Thank you that we have such a Savior. Draw our hearts closer to him this morning. We pray in Jesus' name Amen. Matthew twenty-two verses one to twenty-two. And again Jesus spoke to them in parables, saying The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son, and sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast, but they would not come. Again he sent other servants, saying, Tell those who are invited, See, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready, come to the wedding feast But they paid no attention and went off, one to his farm, another to his business, while the rest seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them. The king was angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city. Then he said to his servants, The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy. Go therefore to the main roads, and invite to the wedding feast as many as you find. And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good, so the wedding hall was filled with guests. But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment. And he said to him, Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then the king said to the attendants, Bind him hand and foot, and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, for many are called, but few are chosen. Then the Pharisees went and plotted how to entangle him in his words. And they sent their disciples to him, along with the Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that you are true and teach the way of God truthfully, and you do not care about anyone's opinion, for you are not swayed by appearances. Tell us then, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? But Jesus, aware of their malice, said Why put me to the test? You hypocrites, show me the coin for the tax. And they brought him a denarius. And Jesus said to them, Whose likeness and inscription is this? They said, Caesar's. Then he said to them, Therefore render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. When they heard this they marvelled, and they left him and went away Are you wearing the right clothes? That's our key question for today as we look at this passage. Who doesn't love a good feast? Well, apparently if it's a wedding feast. And God the Father is the host and Jesus is the bridegroom, lots of people just can't be bothered. They pay no attention, they go about their normal, boring lives. as if no fattened animals have been slaughtered and no tables have been set. We can see the reality of this parable all around us. The God of the universe has sent his one and only Son, who has lived perfectly, died sacrificially, and risen victoriously for one reason. to glorify God by giving full and free salvation, forgiveness, reconciliation with God, adoption into God's family, eternal life, but most people simply don't care They're not hostile. They're just too busy with their lives to be interested. They use words like religion and church to make salvation seem as man-made and boring as possible. And then sadly, there are some others who think they can crash God's party on their own terms. These wedding crashers think religion is a great way to earn eternal life. They have ignored the terms of God's wedding invitation and despised the wedding garments which Jesus lived and died to earn for them. Instead of the perfect robes of Christ's righteousness, they come in the filthy rags of their own righteousness, thinking their own good works will count the same as the finished work of Christ. Sadly. When the wedding feast truly begins, they will find out how wrong they were. They will see how poorly clothed, with ridiculous rags they truly are The pathetic inadequacy of their own righteousness and attempted good deeds will be clear, but it will be too late. So what about you? God has prepared the wedding feast of his son. The Bible calls it the wedding supper of the Lamb, your clothes, for attending are the robes of perfect righteousness earned by Jesus Himself. He offers them to you, free of charge, to be received by faith. The only catch is that you have to see your own sin and realize how impossible it would be for you to dress yourself for the wedding in your own righteousness. Are you too busy to notice or care? Are you still convinced God will accept your good deeds as good enough to get you into the feast? Or are you trusting in Jesus alone for your salvation? Are you confessing that Christ and Christ alone is your righteousness and your salvation. Well let's turn to Psalm 51. This is a great Psalm to use to repent of all of our sin, as well as all of our self-righteousness, and to trust in Jesus alone. Psalm 51 is written to the choir master. It's a Psalm of David. It was written when Nathan the prophet went to him after he had gone into Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love. According to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight So that you may be justified in your words, and blameless in your judgment, behold, I was brought forth in iniquity And in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, you delight in truth, in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice Hide your face from my sins. Blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence Take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit. Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise. For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. You will not be pleased with a burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart, O God. you will not despise. Do good to Zion in your good pleasure. Build up the walls of Jerusalem. Then you will delight in right sacrifices, in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings Then bulls will be offered on your altar. Oh Lord, you have given us what we need to be clean. And to be righteous. We have sinned. We are guilty. We must confess that you are right when you judge us as guilty. But you've provided us with a purging, with a cleansing through the blood of your son, and with a covering, a clothing through the righteousness of your son. We don't come with our own sacrifice of our religious good deeds. We come trusting in Jesus and Him alone. To be our Savior and our Lord, our eternal King, our redemption, our righteousness, our wisdom, our peace. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's lesson was a blessing to you. And I hope you'll be able to join us next week as we continue. Next week is Holy Week in the original release schedule of these. But we're just going to continue with the readings because we are already in that section of Jesus Life here in the Gospel of Matthew. So have a blessed day in the Lord.