Come here to hear from the Lord, because He alone has the words of eternal life. And today we're turning our attention to Isaiah chapter 60. Beautiful, powerful chapter. As we continue through the book of Isaiah, we hear the call to God's people to arise and shine. For your light has come. We're to shine this light to the nations until Christ returns. And that is the theme. of this chapter. Hear now God's holy word. Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples. But the Lord will arise upon you And his glory will be seen upon you. And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising Lift up your eyes all around and see. They all gather together. They come to you. Your sons come from afar, and your daughters shall be carried on the hip. Then you shall see and be radiant, your heart shall thrill and exult, because the abundance of the sea shall be turned to you, the wealth of the nations shall come to you. A multitude of camels shall cover you, the young camels of Midian and Epha, and those of Sheba shall come. They shall bring gold and frankincense, and shall bring good news, the praises of the Lord All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered to you, the rams of Neboth shall minister to you, they shall come up with acceptance on my altar, and I will beautify my beautiful house. Who are these that fly like a cloud and like doves to their windows? For the coastlands shall hope for me, the ships of Tarshish first. To bring your children from afar, their silver and gold with them, for the name of the Lord your God and for the Holy One of Israel, because He has made you beautiful. Foreigners shall build up your walls, and their kings shall minister to you. For in my wrath I struck you, but in my favor I have had mercy on you. Your gates shall be opened continually, day and night they shall never be shut, that people may bring to you the wealth of the nations with their kings in led in procession. For the nation and kingdom that will not serve you shall perish. Those nations shall utterly be laid waste. The glory of Lebanon shall come to you, the cypress, the plain, and the pine to beautify the place of my sanctuary, and I will make the place of my feet Glorious. The sons of those who afflicted you shall come bending low to you, and all who despised you shall bow down at your feet They shall call you the city of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel. Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, With no one passing through, I will make you majestic forever, a joy from age to age. You shall suck the milk of nations, you shall nurse at the breast of kings And you shall know that I, the Lord, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob. Instead of bronze, I will give gold, and instead of iron I will bring silver, instead of wood, bronze, instead of stones, iron. I will make your overseers peace and your taskmasters righteousness Violence shall no more be heard in your land, devastation or destruction within your borders. You shall call your walls salvation and your gates praise. The sun shall be no more your light by day, nor for brightness shall the moon give you light, but the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory. Your sun shall no more go down, nor your moon withdraw itself, for the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your days of mourning shall be ended. Your people shall all be righteous. They shall possess the land forever. the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I might be glorified. The least one shall become a clan, and the smallest one a mighty nation. I am the Lord, in its time. I will hasten it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you speak wonderful words, glorious, amazing words to us, your people, here in this past. Help us to receive them. Help us to believe them. Help us to understand them. Help us to live in the light of them. By the power of your Holy Spirit and to the glory of your name, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever just said, what in the world is happening? Right? Everybody said that one time or another. You probably didn't mean that literally when you said it. You probably were just confronted with uh an unpleasant situation Last night I was coming home from Jeff's house in game night, and I was uh I was driving my son Andrew's car for a variety of different reasons, but I'm driving it up 95, and um all of a sudden Engine overheating. Shut off engine now. It's after ten o'clock at night. So I had to pull over to the shoulder of 95, and that was the thought, like, what in the world is happening? And thankfully I had a partial bottle of coolant. in the trunk of the car and um all worked out well. But when we ask that, we're normally just confronted with a frustrating situation that we don't understand. But if someone were to ask you in a more serious way, what is happening in the world, how would you answer that question Would you talk about how the baseball season has just begun? How spring has arrived? Or would you talk about how both the Maryland men and women were bounced out of the NCAA tournament in the round of Sweet 16? Or maybe about the current activities of the Trump administration? These are the things that easily come to mind and that we easily talk about when we think of what is going on in the world. But do we know, and do we really believe, that the most important thing that is happening in the world right now Is that the spread of the gospel to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation is bringing in all the children of God? From all over the world. When we pray for the missionaries that we support in Haiti and in Uganda and reaching international students at Johns Hopkins or through FCA or through the work that the law offices are involved with in Kenya, do we realize that this is this is the most important thing that's happening in the world Not politics, not sports, not seasonal changes. It's the spread of the gospel. It's the light of God reaching the nations. Isaiah 60 presents us with a picture that is powerful. Isaiah 60 follows Isaiah 59. I know. I I come up with these profound insights. You just can't find these anywhere else, you know. Sixty comes after fifty-nine. So last week we're looking at fifty-nine and we're looking at the fact that The Lord looks out at the world and it's terrible. There's iniquity that has separated us from God and there's no one to intercede or intervene. There's no one righteous But then God Himself works salvation, His right arm works salvation for Him, and righteousness is given And there is a Redeemer who comes to Zion, and the people of God can rejoice, and then the promise is given at the very end of 59 that my spirit is upon you and my words that I have put in your mouth shall not depart from out of your mouth and out of the mouth of your offspring or out of the mouth of your children's offspring from this time forth and forevermore. That was the end of 59. And now what we have really in 60 is the unfolding of this generation to generation spread of the light of the gospel, because God will not take away his word and his spirit from his people, and so the light shines. And I want to point out a couple of verses in particular to you that sort of frame, I believe, the whole scope of what's happening in Isaiah 60. Verse 6 of Isaiah 60 is fulfilled with the coming of the wise men from the east that's recorded in Matthew 2. Did you hear that? Camels bringing gold and frankincense? A multitude of camels shall cover you, the young camels of Midian and Epha, and those of Shiva shall come. They shall bring gold and frankincense and shall bring good news The praises of the Lord. What did the wise men say when they arrived in Jerusalem? Where is the one who has been born, king of the Jews? They were bringing the good news. Messiah is here We saw his star in the east, and we have come to worship him. So you have verse 6 fulfilled in the coming of the wise men from the east. with their entourage of camels and their gifts of gold and frankincense. Interesting, myrrh is not mentioned here because that myrrh is a burial spice. Just an interesting little side note. And then you have verses eleven and nineteen that are explicitly quoted. As fulfilled in the New Jerusalem in Revelation 21. Look at verse 11. Your gates shall be open continually, day and night they shall not be shut, that people may bring to you the wealth of the nations with their kings led in procession. And then verse 19, the sun shall no more be your light by day, nor for brightness shall the moon give you light. But the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory. Now, if you've got your Bible, Stick a little bookmark there in Isaiah 60, flip to the very end. Revelation 21, the very end of the story. The New Jerusalem has come down out of heaven prepared as a bride for her bridegroom, and John is being taken on a tour of this holy city. Picking up in verse 22 of Revelation 21, this is what we read. And I saw no temple in the city. For its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it. and its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations. But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. Clear and explicit language from Isaiah 60 drawn here in Revelation 21. So what do we have here? We have a whole scope from the first Gentiles to come to the Lord Jesus in the wise men to the coming in of all the nations, at least the elect of all the nations, who come into the New Jerusalem. So it really is a scope of the spread of the light of the gospel to the nations throughout the church age. It begins with a call, a command, and a blessing, all in two words: arise, shine. Arise, get up, shine. Why? For your light has come And the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples, but the Lord will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you, and nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your of your rising. That's a pretty powerful call. It's a call, it's a command, and it's a blessing all in one. And in that way, it is an echoing of the very first words that God ever spoke to humanity back in Genesis 1. When God made Adam and Eve in his image, male and female, he created them, God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply. And fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And theologians and Bible scholars have debated for centuries. over whether or not these first words that God spoke to humanity, whether they are a blessing or a command And if you know me enough by now, you're going to know that my answer is, yes, it is a blessing command. It is a command blessing. It's a commission. But it's a commission of privilege that comes with authority and power because they're made in God's image. And in that way That original commission, blessing, command is repeated by Jesus in what we call the Great Commission at the end of Matthew's Gospel when he says All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. In the beginning, when God made people in his image, we were made to be those who would take the light of God to all of creation. That we would rule with the righteous character of God, that we would rule as God's holy people, and we would take God's righteousness, God's peace, God's truth, and we would spread it over all of creation. But because the fall happened, and Adam and Eve said, that's not good enough to reflect God's image. We want to be God ourselves. They were plunged in darkness. Darkness covers the earth. And so as people spread over the face of the earth. We take sin and suffering and the curse. And that's why Jesus sent his son, God sent his son Jesus to come into the world as the light of the world. And he comes as the light of the world to restore the fallen image of humanity. He is the image of the invisible God. He is the firstborn over all creation. He is the restoration. He is the new and better Adam. He is the head of a new humanity. And so the Great Commission is really a recommissioning of what was supposed to be humanity's first mission, which is to spread the light. of the knowledge of the glory of God and his character over the whole earth. And now we've been given that privilege and that blessing to us. In 2 Corinthians 4, Paul puts it this way: Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart. But we have renounced disgraceful, underhanded ways. We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word. But by the open statement of the truth, we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience In the sight of God. And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers to keep them from seeing. the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Listen to this, verse 5. For what we proclaim is not ourselves. But Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake, for God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts. to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. It's a blessing and a command. It's a commission and a privilege. We have been given the light of the world. But it's not a light that comes from us. The only light we have is Jesus. Arise. Shine, for your light has come. Who's the light who's come? Jesus. And the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. Jesus Christ is risen from the dead, and he sits at the right hand of God the Father as King of kings And Lord of Lords and head of the church, and he calls us to be his body and to be his ambassadors and to shine his light into the world. And the only light we have is Jesus. And so Paul says, we don't do any underhanded, deceitful ways. We're not going to launch some clever marketing campaign that'll get people into church. because we're going to give away a big screen TV or a motorcycle. We're not going to do these gimmicky things to try to sell people on something because what we have is what they need and that is Jesus. So we're going to talk about Jesus, we're going to preach Jesus, we're going to live Jesus, we're going to demonstrate Jesus, because that's the light that we have. And it's the only light that we have. It's a reflected light. It doesn't come from us. We're like the moon. It's a great analogy that God has given us in the night sky. The moon glows brilliantly at times. Times when you're outside and it's a clear night and there's a full moon. You can see almost like it's daytime. You can just see so clearly. And the moon is is radiant Because it is fully reflecting the glory of the sun. It has no glory of its own. It's just a dead rock. But when the light of the sun shines upon it and is reflecting By it. It gives light to the world. We are wonderfully, amazingly blessed to have the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ Jesus. Shining in our hearts. We should be thankful for that. We should take this light to the world. We're blessed to be able to do so, and we should remember that what we have to offer the world is not our own opinion. About the way that politics should be done in our country to fix this or that social problem, that ain't it. It's Jesus. And what He's done to save us. If we manipulate God's word either to get what we want, Because we're peddlers of God's word? Or to tell people what they want to hear because their itching ears demand to hear what they want to hear? If we do either one of those things, We are not giving them the light of the world. We are giving them darkness instead. And it's like it's like a lunar eclipse. You know what happens in a lunar eclipse? It's the shadow of the Earth covers the moon So that it doesn't properly reflect the light from the sun that is shining on it. So it's like that with us. It's like the world, politics, selfish ambition. Pride of life, whatever it is, the world has so gotten in the way that there's a shadow that's cast over the light that should be shining. And instead of shining the light of Christ, we shine a shadow that is distorted. But God is at work. And that's the good news. There's just this positive, wonderful picture of what God is doing here in Isaiah 60. Look at verse 4. Lift up your eyes all around and see. They all gather together. They come to you. Your sons shall come from afar. Your daughters shall be carried on the hip. Then you shall see and be radiant. Your daughters shall thrill and exult. By the way, little side note, sometimes I chuckle when I'm doing a little research into Bible things. Your daughters shall be carried on the hip. The sources that I use to sort of research this passage, they all said Uh this is reflecting an ancient Middle Eastern custom of how the women would like no it's not. Women carry their b baby girls on their hip. Like I don't know what you can tell it was written by men who like Oh, this is some ancient Middle Eastern custom of the peoples that like What? Anyway, sorry Then you shall see and be radiant, and your heart shall thrill and exult, because the abundance of the sea shall be turned to you, the wealth of the nations shall come to you, a multitude of camels shall cover you, young camels, a Midian and Epha. And those of Sheba shall come bringing gold and frankincense and good news, the praises of the Lord, and all this coming in, this ingathering. Now we're not going to go into every detail about every group of people that's mentioned and how they come and with what they come. The basic idea here is we're given like a catalog of people from every direction. And people from every background of life and people coming with everything that they have. So some are seafaring people who are coming across, some are camel riding people coming across the desert. or they come from the east, from the west, from the north, and the south, they come in, and they bring with them what they have. It's clear. What's clear As repeatedly in verse 7, in verse 11, is that they're coming because of the work that God is doing in his church. They shall come up with acceptance on my altar, and I will beautify my beautiful house. Verse 7 ends with. And then verse 9, for the name of the Lord your God and for the Holy One of Israel, because he has made you beautiful. Verse 13, I will make the place of my feet glorious. This is work that God is doing. It's not work that we're we're called to be a part of it, certainly. We're called to be vessels, to be instruments, to be ambassadors, but we are to tell people about what God has done for us. If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, God has put light, eternal light, the light of God in you. In your heart, in your soul. The truth of God, the goodness of God, the righteousness of God in Jesus Christ lives in you. And He's given you beautiful feet. The feet that bring good news. The good news that God has put in you, and that God has given you the privilege to be able to carry to others. It's not something you did Of course, the gospel that makes the church beautiful is also a deep offense. To those who are lost. We read earlier in 2 Corinthians 4 that God, the God of this age, has blinded the minds of unbelievers so that they don't see the light. It's there, but they can't see it. You ever have that experience of sharing Christ with somebody and they just don't get it? Look how wonderful Jesus is and how wonderful a Savior He is. And what they're hearing is, oh, you're telling me that I should be a religious person and go to church and be good. That's not what I'm saying. I'm telling you about someone who came to rescue you from yourself. Oh, well, I don't really need religion. I'm a good person. Like this, you know, the light is shining, but they're blind, and that's the reality of how it happens. But as the light shines, God brings in his people. He shows us how he does this in the book of Acts repeatedly. Share one little story with you from Acts 13. This is a missionary journey of Paul and Barnabas, and they're preaching the gospel, and they're in the city of Antioch, in the region of Pisidia, what's present-day Turkey. And this is what happened there in Poseidon Antioch. The next Sabbath, almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord. But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began to contradict what was spoken by Paul, reviling him. And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, It was necessary that the word of God be spoken to you first, since you have thrust it aside and judged yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turned For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, I have made you a light to the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth. That's a quote from Isaiah. And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life, believed. And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout that whole region, but the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and leading men of the city who stirred up Persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district. But they shook off the dust from their feet against them, and they went to Iconium, and the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. See that picture? The gospel always joyfully advancing. As many as are appointed to eternal life believing. And growing, and the Word of God spreading, and much opposition. A lot of people who remain in the dark, who remain blind, and who say, what you're bringing to us is not what we we want to hear. And that that is when you know that God is working. That's faithful gospel missions. God says here, he's going to bring in the sons and daughters. There's particular people, the sons and daughters. When Paul, a couple chapters later, he's in Corinth. God says, I'm with you, no one's going to attack you and harm you, for I have many people who are mine in this city. How does God have many people who are his in Corinth? Paul just got there and just started sharing the gospel. Because God knew that he had sons and daughters in Corinth, and he was going to leave Paul there to bring them in. Now, eventually, Paul, again, faced opposition and they were driven out of town. But not until a year and a half was up and the appointed time to accomplish God's work is done. So always we find this at work. There's gospel growth. And there's kingdom advancement and there's opposition and there's tribulation. Because the light is shining in the darkness. And to those to whom God gives the ability to see, they come to the light, they come to salvation, and those who are left blinded oppose it violently. And that is the way it all unfolds throughout church history. The gospel goes forward, people are saved, but there's opposition as well. Verses 10 to 14 talk about the wealth of the nations being gathered in. And we already saw that this is fulfilled completely in Revelation 21. When Jesus comes again and it's the new heavens and the new earth, all the wealth of the nations is brought in to the new Jerusalem. But even before that day, the Lord gives the church the use of the great achievements of the nations. For the advancement of the gospel. The wealth of the nations, the things that the nations accomplish, the things that the nations achieve are brought into the church. And then used by the church to advance the gospel. It's it's happened throughout history, and it's one of the wonderful things to study in history. In Paul's day, we just read about Paul and his missionary journeys. How was Paul able to go on these missionary journeys How was he able to go all around the Eastern Roman Empire and plant church in city after city after city? Why? Because the Romans had built the best road network that the world had ever seen. It was probably the greatest engineering accomplishment. Now the Romans did it so they could move troops along those roads, but God put it in place so that the gospel could move along those roads. And that's where the churches were planted, and that's where the gospel spread, on the Roman roads. Later. Oh, and as they're spreading the gospel, how are they able to communicate to people? One of the most frustrating things for missionaries is when you go to take the gospel to a new people group, you're like, oh, there's a people group over there and they don't know anything about Jesus. Let me go and take the gospel to them. And you go, let me tell you all about Jesus, and they hear. What are you talking about? Jesus is the Son of God. He came to save you. And they hear. Because there's a language barrier, and you've got to spend years sometimes learning the language so that you can actually tell them about Jesus in their own language. How was Paul able to go all around the place, all these different places, because everybody spoke Greek? And the reason why everybody spoke Greek is that hundreds of years before Alexander the Great had conquered that whole area and put it under Greek dominion. And then we have a New Testament that was written in Greek and could circulate throughout the Roman world in a common language. So God takes the wealth of the nations, the conquests of Alexander the Great, the engineering of the Romans, and gives it to the church as a gift. We see this throughout history. When the printing press was invented in 1455 by Johann Gutenberg, what was the first thing printed on the brand new printing press? The Bible. And the Reformation was able to spread throughout Europe and could not be stamped out because of the printing press. Martin Luther nailed his 95 feces to the church door in Wittenberg, calling out the Pope for the sale of indulgences, criticizing That document was translated into every major language in Europe and was found on the streets of every major city in Europe within weeks. Couldn't be stopped because of the printing press. Later in the age of exploration, the ships went out from Europe to explore, and they're going out to find treasure and uh colonize, but those ships are also used to take the gospel. To these far-reaching lands. Today we use the internet and satellite communications and even artificial intelligence that are all being used to speed up the process of breaking through new languages. With the Bible. The time it takes to translate the New Testament into a new language has been cut down to a fraction of what it used to be. Because of these technologies, satellite communications, laptops, internet, and artificial intelligence. Just four years ago in the Yumbei district of Uganda, which is 90% Muslim and maybe one to two percent evangelical Christian. The New Testament was fully translated into a ringa for the first time. Just four years ago, Jacob Lee was able to be there and to preach at the celebration worship service for the completion of the New Testament. Testament in Aeringa. And it's happening using technology. How are we able to go to Uganda? I can go to Uganda every year. And come back. Because we have these big planes, right? And these road systems. And it only takes about 40 hours to get there. And as exhausted as I feel when I get there, I know enough about history to know that not that long ago it would have taken weeks to get there. There's no way I could go every year So God, see, God brings the wealth of the nations to the church, the accomplishments, the achievements, the technology, and says, here, church, use this to take the gospel to the nations. Are we doing that? We need to invest in that because that's what God is telling us. And then at the end of this chapter, he tells us about the glorious future that is coming. A time when there will be no more violence, when there will be righteousness, peace, salvation, and praise. When the the light of the glory of God will shine upon God's people twenty-four hours a day, all for eternity. And and there's a lot in that picture. That's coming is that when the gospel has reached to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, when everyone who is a son and daughter of God, known by God from before the foundation of the earth, when they come in, when the last convert comes in. And the number of God's people is complete. Jesus will come again. And he will judge the nations. Actually, we were learning about this in a youth group. this week. We will sit with Jesus and judge the nations because we will be glorified and we will be perfected. It's astounding to think about. I can't even find my car keys most mornings. And somehow I'm gonna be transformed to such a way that I can sit with Jesus and judge the nations. That's gonna take a lot of miraculous transformation. But Jesus is going to do it. And he's going to bring a final end to all evil. And then the light of the gospel, the light of the glory of God, the light of Jesus Christ will shine. Shine on all of God's people forever and ever, with no fear, no opposition, no evil, no darkness. Your days of mourning shall be ended. Your people shall all be righteous. They shall possess the land forever. That is what is coming. So what do we do now? What do we do today? What do we do this week? I think directly from Isaiah 60, four things. Four things. First, we must realize Sometimes people want from preaching and from preachers, just give me the practical steps of the things that I need to do. A B C One Two Three. And what I what I've realized, the longer I'm a Christian and the longer I spend in ministry, the most profound thing that needs to happen in In each one of us is that the way that we think, the way that we love, and the way that we see the world has to be transformed so that it lines up with the way God thinks, with the way that God loves, and with the way that God sees the world. We don't need a practical to-do list as much as we need Heart, mind, soul, transformation. So the very first thing we need to do is we need to realize that the advancement of the gospel to the nations is the most important thing happening in the world. And we need to prioritize our lives to more robustly participate in this work. What does that mean? It means give more. It means pray more. It means be willing to sell Send your children out to the mission field or be willing to go yourself. Give, pray, send, go. But we need it, we need to see that this is the thing that's happening in the world that matters. The second thing we need to do is we need to trust in the gospel to change hearts and lives. And not get distracted by techniques that are designed to attract people to something other than Jesus. We as the church, we have no other light to shine into the world but the light of Jesus Christ. The third thing we need to do is we need to put all national and global events in their right perspective. In the light of what God is doing. Sixteen hundred years ago, Augustine of Hippo wrote a brilliant book that's designed in part to help us do this. City of God. And in this book, one particular section of it that's really been helpful to people over the years is Augustine talks about how there's a city of man. There's a city of God, and these are two different cities. There's a city that man is building, and there's a city that God is building. And you see this idea in Scripture. There are the kingdoms of this world and there is the kingdom of God. There are the things that pass away, and there are the things that Things that are eternal. We need to make sure that we have whatever opinions or feelings or allegiances we might have to the kingdom of man. The city of man needs to be put subservient to the kingdom of God, to the city of God, to what God is doing. America wasn't around. four hundred years ago. It might not be around a hundred years from now. But Jesus and his kingdom reigns So we need to put all national global events in their right perspective in the light of what God is doing. And we need to pray and give and serve so that we can shine the light of Christ to our neighbors and to the nations. Parents, how do you pray for your kids? Hopefully you pray that they will know and love and serve the Lord all of their lives. What if that means that the Lord calls them to missionary work to reach unreached tribes? We need to say, praise God. If he would do that, I would be so happy with that. Or that you as a family When you have dinner together, pray. Pray for missionaries. Don't let Sunday morning at church be the only time that you're praying for our missionaries. Pray for them. Pray that God would use them. Teach one another about what's happening. Follow up, learn. And then give when you can give and go when you can go. We're working on another Uganda mission trip in June. We need prayer and support for that. Then we're doing a church mission trip to West Virginia. Another way to get the gospel out to people is by serving them and helping them and then telling them about Jesus. So this is what needs to be driving our lives, not whether the stock market is up or down. Not whether our favorite sports team is winning or losing, although, hey, you know, the Orioles won their opening series of the season. Happy about that, excited, but in its proper perspective. I was upset when Maryland lost in the sweet 16, especially since they played a great first half and a horrible second half, and I was really frustrated how they wouldn't rebound the ball. But again, all in perspective. It's not that important. It's just a passing thing. Jesus reigns forever, and he calls us to be a part of something that will last forever Let's answer that call. Let's pray. Father, thank you for loving us, for giving us your light. Thank you that the glory of the Lord has risen upon us and we are blessed. Use us for your glory. Fill us with your Spirit. Shine your light through us. Equip us. Lead us. Send us. That Christ might be known in every corner of this world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.