Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals I am Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with us as we wrap up week 16 together in the Heidelberg Catechism. We are we've turned the corner from the humiliation of Christ now to the exaltation of Christ. Last time we looked at the resurrection of Jesus, and now we're going to look at the ascension of Jesus to the right hand of God the Father as we look together at question number 46. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into the catechism and into his word today. Father in heaven. Thank you so much for giving us eternal life and unshakable comfort in the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's in your Son that we have salvation. Thank you. Please teach us today so that we might more deeply appreciate and more strongly believe in what you've given us in Jesus. We pray in his name. Amen. Okay, so we've been in the section of the Heidelberg Catechism that deals with the Apostles' Creed. This stretches back to question number 23, and we're on question number 46 today And today, really, we're in the sixth article of the Apostles' Creed. He ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. That's what we're looking at today. Last time we were on question 45, and we considered, how does Christ's resurrection benefit us? And the answer was that first, by his resurrection He has overcome death, so that he could make us share in the righteousness which we had which he had obtained for us by his death. Second, by his power we too are raised to a new life. And third, Christ's resurrection is to us a sure pledge. of our glorious resurrection. Three wonderful benefits of the resurrection of Christ that we looked at last time. Today we come to question 46, which is part of Lord's Day 18. What do you confess when you say he ascended into heaven? And the answer is that Christ, before the eyes of his disciples, was taken up from the earth into heaven, and that He is there for our benefit until he comes again to judge the living and the dead. So we have three parts really to this answer, although it doesn't spell it out first, second, third like like last time, but we still have three parts in that there's the historical reality of what Jesus did. He was taken up from earth into heaven. There's what he's doing now and how it benefits us. He's there in heaven for our benefit. And then the third is the future until he comes again to judge the living and the dead. So past, present, future. He was taken up. He is in heaven for our benefit until he comes again to judge the living and the dead. Let's see how Scripture teaches us all three of these things very clearly, because all of this though the Heidelberg Catechism is a great teaching tool, but All throughout, every phrase, every line of every question has scripture footnotes because the men who wrote the Heidelberg Catechism didn't want you to believe in the Heidelberg Catechism, they wanted you to believe in the Bible. In the doctrines of Scripture, so this is a guide to point you, to direct you to the clear doctrines of Scripture Luke 24, verses 50 and 51. And he led them out as far as Bethany. And lifting up his hands, he blessed them, and while he blessed them, he parted from them, and was carried up into heaven. That's the last chapter of Luke's Gospel, and then the sequel to Luke's Gospel is the book of Acts, and in the first chapter of Acts, we get a little more detail about him being taken up into heaven. Acts chapter 1, verses 9 through 11. And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up and a cloud took him out of their sight. And while they were gazing into heaven, as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes, and said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken out from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. So even at his ascension, there's the promise from the angels that he will come in the same way on the clouds. descending from on high in glory. Just as he ascended to to the heights in glory, he's going to descend from on high in glory. He's there for our benefit. He's there in heaven for our benefit. How does it benefit us? Well, Romans 8. 34 asks the question: who is to condemn? Do you feel condemnation coming at you from Satan from your flesh, from your doubts and fears? Who is to condemn? Well, Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. So, for our benefit, he's interceding for us so that if any voice of accusation or condemnation comes, he answers it with his blood and righteousness. His blood and righteousness. Hebrews gives us wonderful focus on this. As much of the theme of Hebrews is how Jesus is our great high priest. So I've picked three verses here. These are the ones that are in the footnotes for the um for the catechism question. But Hebrews 4. 14 and 7. 25 and 9. 24. But really the whole book of Hebrews is a great study for this particular theme. Hebrews 4. 14 says, Since then we have a great high priest. who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. We have a great high priest. He is in heaven, and we can hold fast our confession in him because he is alive. 725, one of my favorite verses in all the Bible. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him. since he always lives to make intercession for them. Jesus is able to save us to the uttermost. That means no matter what circumstances, no matter what trials, no matter what doubts, no matter what waverings Jesus is able to save to the uttermost because he lives forever to make intercession. He always lives to make intercession for us who believe in him. And finally, 924 from Hebrews, for Christ has entered not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself. now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. Jesus has gone into heaven, heaven itself. There was an earthly sanctuary, an earthly tabernacle, an earthly temple that was a copy of a plan that Moses was shown on the mountain. But he's not in the copy. He's in the real thing, in the heavenly sanctuary. He's there on our behalf. Could there be three more wonderful words in all the world that Christ is in the presence of God on our behalf? On our behalf. One good exercise is if you believe in Jesus Christ, if you trust in him for your salvation, put your name in these verses. Since then, Jason has a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God. Let Jason hold fast to his confession Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for Jason. May seem like a silly exercise, but but this is true of you if you are a believer. He appears before God on your behalf. You personally. He's praying for you personally. He's your high priest personally. Matthew 24. 30 then moves us to the future. From there he's going to come. And Jesus says, Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, then all the tribes of the earth will mourn. And they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. Acts 17, 29 to 31, this is Paul at Mars Hill in Athens, speaking to the Athenian philosophers who were gathered, and he's speaking to them about God. He says, Being then God's offspring, we ought not to think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and imagination of man. The times of ignorance got overlooked But now he commands all people everywhere to repent, because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed. And of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. God is going to judge the world in righteousness by a man, the man Christ Jesus Who has been raised from the dead to give proof, to give assurance that he is King of Kings, Lord of Lords. True and final authority over heaven and earth. Our catechism question again: What do you confess when you say he ascended into heaven? Answer is that Christ, before the eyes of his disciples, was taken up from the earth into heaven, and that he is there for our benefit until he comes again to judge the living and the dead. That is good news. And I hope you believe it and I hope you rest on it. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, thank you for sending your son. And thank you for raising him from the dead, and thank you for taking him up into heaven so that he can sit in your presence, at your right hand, ever-living to make intercession for us, to represent us as our justification, as our righteousness. as our peace. Help us to trust, cling, follow. And abide in Jesus our Savior until he comes again, until we see him face to face. Oh, how we long for that day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well today we're going to respond to this truth from God by singing before the throne of God above Before the throne I got up, you can't do it. I have a strong and perfectly the great high priest whose name is love. Whoever lives in me for me, my name is brazen on his head, my name is bathed on his heart. I know that while it's heat this No tongue can be that Deepart No tongue can bear me that Deep Larry Satan tells me to despair tells me of You within a word I look at the infinite made at the end of all my things because of him My physical soul is counting free for God's life that is like to the car here. Why did me to look on him and I My perfect life and righteousness, the greatest angel I am, the king of glory. What in his hair I cannot die? My glory purchased by his life, by right in Hilway, Christ on high. With correct my senior end, my God, with correct my senior end, my God, only kiss- By children purchase, by his life, by my victim, Christ on high, recruited by July, my God. Who likes my figure and my job?