Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill. Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you here on our last day of week thirty-two. We're coming into John chapter five today, and uh there's a lot to look at in this section. We're going to be focusing a lot of our attention on this question, what will happen? at the resurrection. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and for this day that we have together and for this time that we can spend in your words studying. We pray. That you would grow us in our knowledge of Jesus, our love for Jesus, and our following after Jesus. To his glory and honor we pray. In his name. Amen John chapter 5. After this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheepgate a pool in Aramaic called Bethesda. which has five roofed colonnades. In these lay a multitude of invalids, blind, lame, and paralyzed. One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew he had already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, and while I am going, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Get up, take up your bed, and walk. And at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked. Now that day was the Sabbath. So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, It is the Sabbath. And it is not lawful for you to take up your bed. But he answered them, The man who healed me, the man who said to me, Take up, that man said to me, Take up your bed and walk. They asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Take up your bed and walk? Now the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn as there was a crowd in that place Afterward, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See you are well. Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. And this is why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working. This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise, for the Father loves the Son, and shows him all that He Himself is doing. And greater works than these will He show him, so that you may marvel. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom He will. so that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Truly, truly I say to you, Whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself, and he has given him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tomb will hear his voice and come out Those who've done good to the resurrection of life, those who've done evil to the resurrection of judgment. Wow. Jesus is really laying his cards on the table here. He's really being super clear about who he is and what authority he has and what he's going to do. And he sets it all up with this great miraculous healing that takes place very publicly by the pool of Bethesda, a place where well-known sick and lame people were. So he heals this man who's been an invalid for 38 years, publicly in front of everybody, in a way that is amazing. Now also in a way by doing it on the Sabbath day and having the man pick up his mat and carry it, it's also a way that exposes the this vast difference between Jesus and the religious leaders of the day. Jesus is powerful. and compassionate and he heals this man miraculously, even though you might notice the man didn't even ask for healing. He didn't even necessarily believe that Jesus could heal him. So this is perhaps John correcting a misunderstanding based on the miracles that are found in the Gospel, in the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Some people who had been familiar with the miracles from Matthew, Mark, and Luke might think, well the really important thing in all miracles is our faith. That's not it. The really important thing in all miracles is Jesus' power and Jesus authority and Jesus compassion. So here, John tells us of a healing that Jesus did where there's no evident faith. Not a man seeking to be healed by Jesus, not a man even necessarily believing that Jesus could heal him. And in fact, a man that was uh apparently a sinner, uh, and that sin was, you know, terrible. So It's an unexpected healing, but it's done. It's really done to set up what what Jesus says about himself. And much of what he says about himself in the rest of this passage is focused on uh his understanding of himself as the son of man. That was Jesus' favorite title for himself that he used during his earthly ministry, was the Son of Man. Now some people have misunderstood Jesus using Son of Man and thought it just means that he's human. And that he's a man just like us. Well, Jesus was fully human and truly human, and he still is fully and truly human in his human nature. But that's not really what Son of Man highlights. One of Jesus' favorite books of the Bible for understanding and explaining himself, as evidence in his ministry, it was the book of Daniel. And it's in Daniel 7 that Jesus gets this favorite messianic title, the Son of Man. Listen to Daniel 7, verses 13 and 14. Behold, with the clouds of heaven, there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days, and was presented before him, and to him was given dominion and glory, and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. That's the picture of the Son of Man. This is not just I'm a man like every other man. It is, I am the one who was promised, who would come, and who would receive unique authority, unique power. You see, one of the descendants of David were promised to sit on the throne forever. And God's people wondered, who was this going to be? How was this going to be? All of the sons of David were mortal men who died. So in Daniel 7, we get this prophecy of the one like a son of man who comes, who really comes with a power and a dominion that he's given from the ancient of days that is far greater than anything imaginable So Jesus is saying, I'm the Son of Man. I'm the Son of Man. In fact, a later passage in Daniel 12 is in mind when Jesus uh gets to the end of this passage here and talks about the hour that's coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God and those who hear will live. Here's Daniel 12, 1 and 2. But at that time your people shall be delivered, everyone whose name shall be found written in the book. And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to everlasting shame and condemn Contentment. Contempt. Sorry, not contempt, but contempt. So that's what Jesus is talking about here in verse 29. They come out, those who've done good, to the resurrection of life, those who've done evil to the resurrection of judgment. Jesus is intentionally using the language of Daniel 12 and Daniel 7 to explain who he is and what he's going to do And here are some clear things that we find in today's passage about the final judgment when Jesus comes again. First of all, the coming judgment will be universal. Jesus says all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. The second thing is that the final separation Daniel uses the terms everlasting life and everlasting contempt, which Jesus uses the terms the resurrection of life and the resurrection of everything of judgment. But these are absolute and eternal terms, everlasting, resurrection, to either life or to contempt and judgment. And third, that Jesus himself will be the judge. This is perhaps the biggest revelation that Jesus makes about Daniel's prophecy. He himself, as the Messiah, as the Son of Man, and the Son of God will be the one whose voice summons the dead to life. So who will be delivered in the hour of judgment? Jesus speaks of those who have done good. He also knows that his audience would be familiar with Daniel, who spoke of everyone whose name will be found written in the book. What book? Well, the book is also referred to in Malachi chapter 3. Malachi 3, the last, next to last chapter in the Old Testament, the last prophet of the Old Testament, refers to a book of remembrance And in this book of remembrance are the names of those who feared the Lord and esteemed his name. Later, John's going to write Revelation. And when John writes Revelation, this same book shows up again, but it's called the Lamb's Book of Life, and it contains the names of those who never worshiped the beast, but only worshipped Jesus. So those who have done good. Those who have feared the Lord and esteemed his name, and those who have worshipped Jesus and not worshiped the idols of the world. It's the people of God, the true and faithful people of God, not just those who call themselves Christians. But those who truly belong to Christ, and by his grace are doing good, by his grace are persevering in faith to the end. That's who receives the life at the day of resurrection. So, now that we know about what will happen on that final day, the day of the Lord, the day of resurrection, my only question for you is this, is your name in the book? Do you belong to Jesus? Have you heard the voice of the Son of God calling you to follow him in this life? A few chapters later in John chapter 10, Jesus is going to talk about those who are in the book, those who will hear the voice of the Son of God and live, and he'll say that they're his sheep. And he'll say, My sheep hear my voice, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life. So is your name in the book? Are you one of the sheep? Do you follow Jesus? If so, you will be delivered from judgment, and you will receive the resurrection of everlasting life with your Lord forever. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, thank you for coming to the rescue of us, sinners, rebels. You tamed our hearts to yourself. You spoke your voice to our souls. You called us to follow you. And by your grace we are following you. May we persevere in following you by that same grace. Until that day when you call us out of the tomb and we stand before you face to face. We look forward to that day, Lord Jesus. Come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for this 32nd week together in the Gospels. I hope it's been a blessing to you. I hope you have a wonderful weekend. I hope you're able to worship with God's people on the Lord's Day. And I hope to see you back here next week as we continue in the Gospel of John. Have a blessed day in the Lord.