We are now going to turn our attention to God's Word, and we are continuing our sermon series through the book of Isaiah. Today we're in Isaiah 51:17 to 52. 12. This is our last sermon before we begin, the Fourth Servant Song, that wonderful fourth servant song that focuses so clearly and powerfully on the cross and the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That'll be our sermon text for the next three weeks. But today we have a passage in front of us. I put it on the screen for you. It may be difficult to read. I was trying to get it all in one uh screen so I didn't have to switch back and forth while I'm reading Which is pretty tricky to do. So let's let's hear God's word together as we seek him. Isaiah fifty-two fifty-one seventeen to fifty-two twelve Wake yourself. Wake yourself. Stand up, O Jerusalem, you who have drunk from the hand of the Lord the cup of his wrath, who have drunk to the dregs the bowl, the cup of staggering. There is none to guide her. Among all the sons she has born, there is none to take her by the hand. Among all the sons she has brought up. These two things have happened to you. Who will console you? Your sons have fainted. They lie at the head of every street like an antelope in a net. They are full of the wrath of the Lord, the rebuke. of your God. Therefore hear this, you who are afflicted, who are drunk but not with wine Thus says your Lord, the Lord, your God, who pleads the cause of his people, Behold, I have taken from your hand The cup of staggering, the bowl of my wrath, you shall drink no more. And I will put it into the hand of your tormentors, who have said to you, Bow down that we may pass over. and have made your back like the ground and like the street for them to pass over. Awake, awake, put on your strength, O Zion, put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city. For there shall no more come into you, the uncircumcised and the unclean. Shake yourself from the dust and arise Be seated, O Jerusalem. Loose the bonds from your neck, O captive daughter of Zion. For thus says the Lord, you were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money. For thus says the Lord God, My people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there, and the Assyrian oppressed them for nothing. Now, therefore, what have I here, declares the Lord, seeing that my people are taken away for nothing? Their rulers wail, declares the Lord, and continually all the day my name is despised. Therefore, my people shall know my name. Therefore, in that day, they shall know that it is I who speak. Here I am. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news who publishes peace, who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, your God reigns The voice of your watchmen, they lift up their voice. Together they sing for joy, for eye to eye they see the return of the Lord to Zion. Break forth into singing, you waste places of Jerusalem, for the Lord has comforted his people. He has redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord has bared his holy arm before the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. Depart. Depart. Go out from there. Touch no unclean thing. Go out from the midst of her. Purify yourselves, you who bear the vessels of the Lord. For you shall not go out in haste, and you shall not go out in flight, for the Lord will go before you, and the God of Israel will be your rear guard. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It is living and active. It is sharper than any two-edged sword. It penetrates. And it heals. It brings life by the power of your Holy Spirit. So work your word in us. Plant it deep within us. May it bear good fruit. May it find good soil in our hearts. May we respond with faith and obedience and love. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, some of you know that I am a father of two teenagers and a young adult. And if you've been a father of or mother of teenagers and young adults, you know that sometimes it is hard to get them up in the morning. And there's always a you know a two-step process to getting up. You have to first wake up and be awake and then you have to actually get out of the bed. Right? And I say this about my kids, but the truth is it's hard for me many mornings to get myself up. The alarm goes off and it hits news and I go back to sleep. The alarm goes off and hits news and I go back to sleep. And then I get to a point where I am fully awake. And then it's like, oh, I gotta get up. I've got to get all the way up. And we see I'm saying that because we see in today's passage this same two-step process involved in in both waking up and then getting up. And it's actually repeated twice. It's a call. It's a call to God's people to wake up and get up. We have it first in 51. 17. Wake yourself, wake yourself, stand up, O Jerusalem. And then we have it repeated at the beginning of chapter 52, verses 1 and 2. Awake, awake, put on your strength, O Zion, put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city. For there shall no more come into you the uncircumcised and the unclean. Shake yourselves from the dust and arise. It's a two-step process. You first have to wake up, wake up. Awake, awake. And that I like that that's repeated, because you know, going from deep slumber to being awake is a takes time. Wake up, wake up, and then stand up. Then put on your beautiful garments, then shake yourself in the dust and arise. I think spiritually speaking, when we come from death to life in regeneration, when God takes those who are dead in their sins and trespasses, alienated from him, children of wrath like the rest of mankind, and bring us to life, we wake up. Our eyes are open for the first time. We see things the way they really are. We see ourselves for the sinners that we are. We see God for the good and holy God that He is. Before that we had things all upside down and backwards. We thought we were basically good people, and that if we could just have our way, we could make things right in the world. And we we we were suspicious of God and skeptical of God. We were deceived. We were asleep, dead, slumbering. We woke up. By the grace of God, we awoke. But now God's calling us to stand up, to put on the beautiful garments. To shake ourselves from the dust, arise, be the people of God that He's called us to be. God has good things planned for His people. He doesn't want us to miss them The gospel calls us to life and wakefulness, and the gospel calls us to get up out of the dirt. to put on the beautiful garments, the priestly garments that Christ has purchased for us, to be clothed in the righteousness of Christ, and to go out and spread the good news of his gospel to those who have not yet heard. But why are God's people slumbering? We find out in verses 17 to 20 of chapter 51 Wake yourself, wake yourself, stand up, O Jerusalem, you who have drunk from the hand of the Lord the cup of his wrath, who have drunk to the dregs, the bowl, the cup of staggering There is none to guide her. Among all the sons she has born, there is none to take her by the hand. Among all the sons she has brought up. These two things have happened to you. Who will console you? Devastation and destruction. famine and sword. Who will comfort you? Your sons have fainted. They lie at the head of every street. They are like an antelope in a net. They are full of the wrath of the Lord, the rebuke of your God. The people of God being addressed here by the prophet Isaiah are in deep distress. God has judged them for their sins. And they have been brought into deep distress. They have suffered devastation and destruction. They have suffered famine and sword. This is also a reflection of the spiritual condition of lost people, of what we are in and of ourselves, what we would be if Christ had not rescued us. Under the wrath of God, suffering physical death, devastation, but also being attacked and held in slavery by Satan who hates us. And who attacks us. The wrath of God is real. And without the intervention of Christ, without the sacrifice of Christ, we're all under the wrath of God. The effect of the wrath of God on the people of God here is described as if they are passed out drunk. They're shell-shocked, they're dismayed, they're bewildered, they're exhausted, they're experiencing the cup of God's wrath, and they couldn't handle it. It overwhelmed them Ephesians 2, the beginning of Ephesians 2, tells us that the effect of being children of wrath like the rest of mankind, as verse 3 says, is that we were dead in our trespasses and sins, in which we once walked Following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, serving the passions of our flesh, we were like the walking dead. In this passage, it's like people who are passed out drunk. In Ephesians 2, it's like spiritual zombies, away walking, but walking dead in our sins and trespasses. This language, though, of Jerusalem being drunk, but the wrath of God because they had to drink the cup of God's wrath is a reminder to us that there is wrath due to us for sin. And the scripture often uses the imagery of a cup containing foaming wine well mixed with spices to represent, as a metaphor, to represent the wrath of God. And we encounter this cup of the wrath of God in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus himself was called by God to drink the cup of his wrath that's due to all of his people for all of our sins. And in the Garden of Gethsemane on the night when he was betrayed, our Lord wrestled in agony and prayer. He pleaded with his father three times, Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. That was the real horror of the cross for Jesus. Wasn't the whip, the cat of nine tails. It wasn't the mocking and the insults from the soldiers. It wasn't the weight of the wooden cross. Although he was so dehydrated and weakened that he could not carry it, it wasn't the nails, it wasn't the thorns, it was the wrath of God. That's what he pleaded, that he might be spared And think about it, if the cup of wrath due to Jerusalem and Judah for their communal and national sins leading up to the exile was so overwhelming that drinking it made them stagger and stumble. and collapse passed out spiritually speaking. How powerful do you think the cup of the wrath of God that is due for all the payment Of all of God's people's sins, personal and communal, for all time must have been. And yet Jesus concluded his prayer. Each time by saying, Nevertheless, not my will, but your will be done. And then on the cross, Jesus drank the cup of God's wrath for us all the way to the bottom. We deserve to be punished. He was punished in our place. We deserve the curse of God. He was cursed that we might be blessed And so the passage is a reminder to us of how hopeless we would be if we were forced to drink the cup of God's wrath due to us for sin. We would quickly be overwhelmed without hope. God's people here. In Ephesians 51, they were overwhelmed by what was assigned to them. And we need to remember, they actually were not assigned the full measure of all of the wrath of God due to their sin. God had measured out a portion for them. to experience as a community because their sin was national and communal in nature. And even that much they could not handle. But God did not give them even more because in judgment God remembers mercy. In judgment, God remembers mercy. Sometimes in our lives, we sin. And we suffer the consequences of that sin. And sometimes it can feel, if we're suffering the consequences of our sin, it can feel like God is angry with us, like God is pouring out wrath upon us. But not really. Jesus took that on the cross. We may be suffering consequences as an act of discipline so that we will learn. But the real wrath of God, the eternal weight of the wrath due to our sin, was taken by Jesus And we need to remember that. We need to give thanks to say these temporal consequences, as bad as they are, it may be the loss of a job, it may be the loss of a relationship, it may be the loss of of of something you hold dear because because of sin and not everything want to say real clearly, not everything bad that happens in life is a consequence of sin. But sometimes it is. And what we can see that direct connection of I lied to this person and now my relationship with them is broken or I neglected bringing up my children to the nurture and admonition of the Lord and now they're wandering. When we when we feel that connection between our sin and the consequences, we need to remember that God is remembering mercy, that Jesus took the weight of our sin upon himself, and that he has grace and mercy to offer us in time of need. So we We don't need to have that drive us into shame and hide us from God. We need to have it reassure us of the sacrifice of Christ and draw our hearts close to God that we might. Be for be forgiven, be cleansed, and be taught and be instructed and grow in Him But God gives his people here good news at the end of chapter fifty one. God tells his people that he's taking away the cup of wrath from their hand. And instead he's giving it to their enemies. Listen to this, verses 21 to 23. Therefore hear this, you who are afflicted, who are drunk but not with wine. Thus says your Lord, the Lord. Your God, who pleads the cause of his people. Behold, I have taken from your hand the cup of staggering, the bowl of my wrath you shall drink no more. And I will put it into the hand of your tormentors, who have said to you, bow down that we may pass over. And you have made your back like the ground. like the street for them to pass over. God promises his people that he's going to take the cup of wrath away from them and give it to the nations who have persecuted them instead. There's an important pattern here. A pattern that we see actually repeated throughout Scripture. You can see it very clearly in the book of Judges, but also in the cycle of the kings. It's a pattern throughout Scripture that actually is extended throughout church history as well. We've but the simplest way to look at it is three steps. One, God's people Sinfully stray away from him, worshiping idols, engaging in gross wickedness. And so step two, God disciplines his people by handing them over to the nations to judge and oppress them But then step three, God disciplines those pagan nations for oppressing his people as he restores his people. Whenever God's people communally as a church, as a group, whenever God's people are engaged in worldliness, idolatry, we become spiritually weak and corrupt. Happens to us personally too, of course, but I'm this is a this is a national pattern and that would transfer to the church in the New Testament. What do we see in the American church right now? Worldliness, idolatry, a pursuit of what? Some churches are preaching what some people have called the therapeutic moralistic deism. And this is a gospel that says God wants you to be healthy and happy God wants you to have a well-adjusted life. But God's not super involved in the details of your life. So just go to Him for help and to help you feel better. But don't think that He's actually responsible for the trials that come into your life That's moralistic therapeutic deism. Others preach a prosperity gospel. God wants you to be fabulously wealthy and always healthy. Interesting. It's always interesting to me when a prosperity preacher spends an extended period of time in the hospital dealing with cancer or their ministry collapses. under financial ruin and scandal because they are really con artists who are manipulating God's word to fleece God's people. But there are also those who preach a gospel of political power. We can rule this world. We can be in charge. We can have our way in this world. It's not what we're called to. We're called to suffer in this world and reign in the next with Christ. So the worldliness and the idolatry of the modern American church has made us lukewarm and compromised, and we've lost so much of our spiritual vitality. We speak the gospel and it it sounds hollow because it's obvious that we're not believing it. We're not living it ourselves. Our salt is losing its saltiness to use Jesus' language. And if the salt loses its saltiness, what good is it for? But to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men? That's Jesus describing this cycle. The salt loses its saltiness, it's thrown out, it's trampled underfoot by men. Until God says, okay, I'm going to renew my church, and then I'm going to discipline the nation that has oppressed them. So we need to take seriously these words. We need to heed the warning here. We need to awake and to arise. And so we turn now to chapter 52 and the second call. with a greater proclamation of good news, a renewed call for God's people to wake up and get up. Awake, awake, put on your strength, O Zion, put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city. For there shall no more come into you the uncircumcised and the unclean. Shake yourself from the dust and arise Be seated, O Jerusalem. Loose the bonds from your neck, for thus says the Lord, you were sold for nothing, you shall be redeemed without money For thus says the Lord God, my people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there, and the Assyrian oppressed them for nothing. Now therefore what have I here, declares the Lord, seeing that my people are taken away for nothing. Their rulers wail, declares the Lord, and continually all the day my name is despised. Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore, in that day they shall know that it is I who speak, here I am. The heart of the proclamation of this good news is found When God invites people to shake themselves up from the dust and arise, to loose the bonds. And then he tells them in verse 3, you were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money. Two key phrases here. Be seated, and you shall be redeemed without money. And again, as we often see in the Old Testament prophets, on one level it seems there was a partial historical fulfillment of this promise when Cyrus the Great issued his decree to restore the Jewish people. to the promised land and to call for the temple to re be rebuilt. This happened after seventy years of exile, as was foretold by the prophet Jeremiah. And no one bribed Cyrus into issuing his decree. And so God's people were brought back from bondage and from exile without money. And yet. On this side of the cross, when we hear the call to be seated, arise and be seated, and we're told that you are redeemed without money. immediately connects us to some important New Testament gospel truths. In Christ, in Christ, God brings us from death to life He makes us spiritually alive, awake, and responsive to himself. He raises us with Christ. He seats us with him in the heavenly places, securing our place in his kingdom, in his family, and at his table forever. And he doesn't do so with gold or silver, not with money, but with the precious blood of Jesus Christ. Let's look at two passages from the New Testament that bring this out. Ephesians 2, verses 4 through 7, and 1 Peter 1, verses 18 through 21. So 1st Ephesians 2, verses 4 through 7. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages He might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Do you see that two-step. . Process in Ephesians 2 that's echoing what was in Isaiah 51. It's made alive together with Christ and then raised us up with him and seated us with him. Awake, awake, arise and be seated. We are believer, child of God, believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. If you are in Christ, you are awake, alive. forgiven, cleansed, and seated with Christ in the heavenly places. So take your seat there. That's where you are positionally. You are seated before God in Christ Jesus. So take your spot there. In other words, let your heart and mind and affections and trust and loyalty and aspiration and identity be there with Christ. Now, 1 Peter 1, 18 to 21. You were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold. but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world. But was made manifest in the last times for the sake of you, who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory. So that your faith and hope are in God. How were we redeemed? How were we ransomed? Well, not with perishable things like silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. And we were ransomed out of futility. into the will of God, out of slavery to sin, into the freedom of the children of God, out of condemnation, and into adoption into the family of God. Money could never have been sufficient to satisfy the debt we owed and complete this transaction of salvation. Any sort of religious system that says if you give enough money or if you do enough good deeds, it totally underestimates the cost. To pay for our sin only the blood of Jesus, the precious blood of Christ, like a lamb without blemish or spot. Only that blood of Christ is enough to pay the infinite debt because the blood of Christ is of infinite worth. It pays the infinite debt that we owe to God Almighty. Jesus paid it all on the cross. And now, verses 7 to 10, chapter 52, now we are privileged by God to both receive and respond to and spread the good news of this redemption to the whole world. Verse 7. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news. Who publishes peace? Who brings good news of happiness? Who publishes salvation? Who says to Zion, Your God reigns. The voice of your watchmen, they lift up their voice, together they sing for joy, for eye to eye they see the return of the Lord to Zion, break forth into singing, you waste places of Jerusalem. For the Lord has comforted his people. He has redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord has bared. His holy arm before the eyes of all the nations and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. Can you tell I love those verses? I mean I use them for the call to worship and then I read them. It's the third time we're hearing them. It's just such a great and glorious call. What does it mean? What is this beautiful feet who bring good news? Well, in the ancient world, you have to understand, of course, that news didn't spread by the internet, or even by cable news, or the radio, or the telegraph. News, especially the outcomes of battles, was carried by messengers. When a city or a people were at war with another city or people, the battle was fought usually on an open plane somewhere. a distance away from the city itself, and then if if they lost that battle, the opposing army was going to march on the city and lay siege to it and sack it and they would all be slaves But if they won that battle, it was victory and it would bring peace, peace to the city, they weren't going to be sieged, but also freedom. And so the news was carried by messengers. From the battlefield back to the city. This is actually how the first marathon in history was run. It was 26 miles from the Battle of Marathon back to Athens. The Athenians were battling against the Persian Empire. Yes, that same Persian Empire that freed the Jews to go back to their homeland. It was still an aggressive conquering empire, and it was marching on Greece and The Athenians fought the Battle of Marathon, and they won. They won. They defeated a much larger army, and the Athenian courier Phippides In 490 BC, he ran from the site of the Battle of Marathon 26 miles to Athens with the message of Nike! And he wasn't selling sportswear. Nike is a Greek word that means victory, which is why Nike is called Nike. And then, you know what happened next? He collapsed and died. Thus proof that the first Nike ad actually killed someone. Just just joking. But yeah, so someone coming with good news would be running quickly. Eager to spread that good news. But a messenger with a heavy heart carrying a message of defeat would would jog along with heavy feet. Watchmen on the wall were trained and they could see the pace of the runner and based on that know whether the news was good or bad, and they loved the sight. of bearers of good news. A quick and bouncy step was beautiful to behold because it was a message of victory to the people. We have good news. We have the best news in the world. And what's interesting about that is sometimes I feel like Christians are sort of slogging along, well. God will endure trouble and hardship. We've been set free from sin and death. The curse has been lifted. We've been adopted as children of God. It's part of what it means to arise from the dust and take your seat at the table of the Lord is to remember this and to live this The first set of beautiful feet carrying the good news of victory with joy belonged to women. They had gone to the tomb early that first Easter morning. to anoint Jesus' body more fully for burial. They had their spices. But they saw an angel and told them, he's not here, he's risen. And so they ran back from the tomb to the upper room to tell the disciples that the tomb was empty, and they had seen these angels who had told them that the Lord was alive. That first generation of disciples took the good news of the victory of Jesus over sin and death as far east. as India, as far south as Ethiopia, as far west as Spain, they preached Jesus and they planted churches across the Roman Empire and beyond within the first 40 years. after the death and resurrection of Jesus. The church has never seen a period of growth so magnificent as in that first 40 years. From 120 disciples gathered fearfully in the upper room to tens of thousands of believers. In city after city across the Roman Empire, and as I said, all the way to South India, the sort of southeast coast of India. You can still go and see where the Apostle Thomas preached and ministered. The eunuch took the gospel back to Ethiopia. Paul likely himself went as far west as Spain. The good news. But the good news is actually it's a little bit odd in how it's announced here in Isaiah 52. It may may catch you off guard. The good news wasn't God loves you and has a beautiful plan for your life. Or It's your God reigns. Who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, your God reigns. Why is it that? Well, because it's about a king. It's good news about a king who's reigning. And that king reigning is actually God reigning. That phrase, good news of happiness, does that sound familiar? I bring good news of happiness. How about if we just change the wording slightly? I bring you good news of great joy Haha! The message of the angels at the birth of Jesus. Behold, I bring you good news of great joy What was the angel's good news of great joy? For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. A Savior. That's the promised salvation. Christ the Lord. He's the reigning King. He's born as the promised ruler to be born in Jerusalem. I'm sorry, in Bethlehem, which Micah foretold. He's Christ the Lord. He's the anointed one. And he is reigning as ruler over all. Your God reigns is good news because only God reigning over all things in Jesus the Messiah, the promised Son of David, the Son of God, brings true salvation and everlasting joy to God's people. You see, mankind, humanity, made in the image of God, was made to rule over God's creation. But Adam and Eve put themselves under the serpent when they listened to him lost their privileged place, broke the image of God that they were made in, and Jesus restores it. Jesus reigning Aslan in Narnia, in the Lion the Witch in the Wardrobe. The the the news is that, you know, things are never so good in Narnia as when uh a son of Adam and daughters of Eve reign. It's a little picture that C. S. Lewis is giving us that humanity is meant to reign over God's good creation, but in righteousness and in peace and that to Jesus, Jesus reigns over God's good creation in righteousness and in peace. He is the reign of God. He brings salvation. He brings everlasting joy to all of God's people. And then verse 9 of chapter 52 tells us the effect of the reign of God in Christ. Break forth together into singing. You waste places of Jerusalem, for the Lord has comforted his people. He has redeemed Jerusalem. Comfort! Redemption. The Lord has comforted his people. He has redeemed your comfort. The Lord has turned in compassion to tenderly console his people. By redeeming us from sin and death and condemnation, bringing us to himself and redemption. He comes in Jesus Christ in order to bring us to himself. to himself forever. Ephesians 2, verses 11 to 19 describes what God has done for us Gentiles who were far off, the nations. Therefore, remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision which is made in the flesh by hands, remember that at that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now. In Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ For he himself is our peace, who has made both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances. that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace. And he might reconcile us both to God in one body, through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace. to you who are far off, and peace to those who are near. For through him we both have access into one spirit to the Father So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. This is who we are. We've been brought to life and hope. We've been brought to reconciliation and adoption. We've been brought to peace with God and to be part of his family forever. The call now for us who believe in the Lord Jesus. Let me just pause for a second. If if this is not you, if you're listening and you're like, I don't know, this is not you. You need to come to God through faith in Jesus Christ. Everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. Call upon him. Believe in him. And you too can know the blessing of having all of your sins forgiven. I think we have the weight of condemnation lifted from you, of being no longer alienated from God, but reconciled to God, of being able to see things as they really are. That we are the helpless sinners and God is the gracious Savior. Come. Call out. Believe The call for us who have come, who have received the good news of happiness and peace, of victory, of comfort, of redemption, is for us to live out what God has done To be the holy people God has redeemed us to be. We see this in verses 11 to 12. Depart, depart, go out from there. Touch no unclean thing. Go out from the midst of her. Purify yourselves, you who bear the vessels of the Lord. For you shall not go out in haste, and you shall not go in flight. For the Lord will go before you, and the God of Israel will be your rear guard. Now initially these verses had meaning for those who were returning to Judah and Jerusalem from the Babylonian exile. They had waited for seventy years for God. To provide a way for them to get out of the foreign pagan land of their captivity. And the Lord had opened the way. The Lord had given them a way out. Through the decree of Cyrus that they could return to Jerusalem, rebuild the temple, and re-establish themselves in the promised land. And even though so many of them had waited for so many years for this good news, they did not all immediately leave and joyfully return to the land. They were free to go, but actually most of them chose to stay in the foreign pagan lands. But their return from exile was really just a preview for us. We have been redeemed and made holy. We have been brought near to God. This means we no longer have to live in the bondage of fear and the broken ways of a fallen world. I sometimes call when we live in fear, when we live in anxiety, when we live in distress, when we or when we live like the world, pursuing the same things that the world. pursues I call that orphan thinking. You're living like an orphan, like a little hopeless orphan child who has no father to care for them. Afraid, anxious, chasing after the things of the world, hoping to get them for yourself. We don't have to live that way. We can't live that way anymore. We're no longer of the world, though we remain in the world. We're free from living for selfish temporary things. We're free from living in fear and anxiety. We must walk. You see, we no longer have to, but we also we no must must no longer. We must walk in the freedom for which Christ has set us free, where we are free to love God and free to love others Where we are free to live for eternity and for the kingdom of God, where we are free to serve and give, expecting nothing in return, because our treasure and our eternal joy is in heaven being kept for us. One day the Lord Jesus Himself will come and take us out of this fallen, broken world forever. When he comes, will he find us eagerly waiting for him? Will he find us publishing good news of happiness and salvation to the nations? Will he find us faithfully living the life that he died and rose again to give us the privilege of living? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you for the life we have in Him. We rejoice. That he has secured the victory, and that we can receive and spread the good news. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for listening to God's Word together and worshiping together. We're going to respond to God's Word now. by singing a new worship song that we learned last week, Christus Victor. Amen. It's all about the victory of Christ and the joy that we have in him. Let's sing this together.