Amen. Our scripture passage for the message tonight is very short, simple. It's from John 1. 29, speaking of John the Baptist The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you for sending your Son to be our Savior. May our hearts before Him lowly bend tonight. And may we be guided by faith to worship, receive, adore, and follow him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated Well, Merry Christmas, everyone. Ah, it's that most wonderful time of the year. A little bit of snow this morning. How many of you are excited to wake up this morning with a little bit of snow on the ground? Did you see the snow? Yeah. That was pretty cool. Just a little bit. But it's Christmas once again, and so together we gather again for a Christmas Eve service, and we remember the baby born in Bethlehem over two thousand years ago Most of us can picture it in our minds, even if those pictures are probably more shaped by movies and nativity plays than they are by the actual text of Scripture. But still, even the passages in Scripture are very familiar to us, as we heard Luke 2 earlier, we know the story well, the census, the travel with the expectant wife. No room at the inn, a child born, wrapped in swaddling cloths, laid in a manger, and through it all Mary, pondering all these things and treasuring them in her heart Well, if she's pondering them, what does it all mean? We go through this every year, but why? Why was Jesus born in Bethlehem? Why did angels announce his birth to shepherds? Why was he wrapped in strips of cloth and laid in a manger? And what difference would it have made if Jesus had never come at all? We get some of our answers within the nativity stories themselves. But for tonight's message, I want to turn our attention to a different passage, to something that was said about Jesus long after that first Christmas night. You see, many of you will know that six months before Jesus gave birth, before Mary gave birth to Jesus and laid him in the manger, Mary's cousin, Elizabeth, had her own miraculous birth. She was well advanced in years, she was well past childbearing age. Elizabeth and Zechariah had given up on having children for a while, and yet God blessed them with a miracle baby of their own, a baby boy named John. He would become a prophet of God. He would preach in the wilderness, and he would baptize people with a baptism of repentance, and so he's become known to us through history as John the Baptist. And it's from the lips of John the Baptist that tonight's passage comes. John the Baptist is out in the wilderness baptizing people when in John 1. 29 he sees Jesus coming and he says this. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world This was he of whom I said, after me comes a man who ranks before me, because he was before me. Well, that's an interesting thing to say about someone who was born six months after you. He ranks before me because he was before me. He goes on to say, I myself did not know him, but for this purpose I came baptizing with water that he might be revealed to Israel. And John bore witness, I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him. I myself did not know him. But he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen And have borne witness that this is the Son of God. The Lamb of God, the Son of God. So Jesus, the Son of God, came into the world that first Christmas, 2025 years ago, to be the Lamb of God. to take away the sin of the world. This is why he was wrapped in strips of cloth and laid in a manger, and we're given that piece of information three times. in Luke's gospel. It's also why the angels appeared to the shepherds out in the fields, because they would be best positioned to recognize the sign that was given to them. This will be a sign for you, the angel said. Not just a general information, and it doesn't just mean this is how you'll know which baby it is. This is the sign a a significant spiritually significant sign for you shepherds. Why? Well these shepherds were out in the fields near Bethlehem. They weren't in Bethlehem because they had to be told, Tonight is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. So they actually had to travel to go to Bethlehem. They said, let us go to Bethlehem. So they weren't actually in Bethlehem. They were in fields nearby. Bethlehem is about five miles away from Jerusalem. What would large flocks of sheep be doing in fields just a few miles outside of Jerusalem. Well, that's where they brought up the sheep that were sacrificed in the temple. So these shepherds were almost certainly shepherds who were tasked with bringing up sacrificial animals for the temple. And the sheep would give birth, and when they gave birth to a spotless lamb, pure white, no dark spots, no stains, no stripes They knew here's one that will qualify to be a Passover lamb or another lamb for sacrifice in the temple. And so how do you keep a bright Spotless lamb, spotless. Well, one of the ways they did that was they wrapped it in strips of cloth and laid it in a manger. It was a way to protect the lamb from getting injured or stained in any way until the temple people could come by and buy the lamb. So the sign for them helped them to see that this is the Lamb of God. But we have to back up and ask another question. Why was there a temple in Jerusalem in the first place? Why were they offering up animal sacrifices? We don't do that anymore. We didn't gather here on a Christmas Eve and you all bring a spotless lamb and I slit their throats and sprinkle you with blood. Aren't you glad we don't do that anymore? Why did they do that for so long? Was that just a leftover custom of ancient simple-minded people who don't know any better? No. In fact It was God Himself who performed the first animal sacrifice to provide a covering for his people. So to get the full story, let's go all the way back to the beginning, and we'll pick up the story to see why we need a Lamb of God to take away the sin of the world. Let's go back to the beginning of the story. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Okay, we can go a little bit past that part. But at the end of that chapter, the first chapter of the Bible, we see the creation of people. And people are made unique among all of God's creation because people are made in the image of God. God says, let us make man in our image. And so in the likeness of God, he created him, male and female, he created them. People uniquely in all of God's creation are made in God's image. What does that mean? Does that mean that God has a head with two eyes on the front and two arms and two like no, God is a spirit and doesn't have a body like we do. It means that people were created to be able to know and reflect the character of God in his wisdom, in his righteousness, and they were called to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and to rule over God's world. As God's image, which means they were to learn the wisdom and righteousness of God, and they were to exercise dominion over creation in that wisdom and righteousness of God. To be like God in how we rule over creation. So how are we doing? How are we doing? Not great. In fact, not even a little bit good. People who want to say, oh, people are basically good and people have good hearts and people mean well. Okay. That's a nice story to tell ourselves. But look at the world. Watch the news. Pay attention. That's your own family gathering tomorrow, perhaps, dare I say it We have rebelled against God. Adam and Eve started it, but we would have done the same thing if we were there. They made a decision. They were tempted by the devil, and they were given a choice, and they made a decision, and they said, we would rather determine right and wrong for ourselves Then just submit to what God says and obey Him by faith. And that is the root. of the problems we see in the world. People saying, well I I can determine good and evil for myself. I can figure it out. But we're broken on the inside when we're not in communion with the God who made us. When we're alienated from God, when we're in rebellion against God, we can't figure it out. And we make a mess of our lives and we make a mess of the world. And so God says we need something better. Adam and Eve, when they sinned, they immediately became aware of their nakedness. And they were ashamed of their nakedness. And they did two things. They hid from God And they tried to cover up their nakedness by making for themselves clothing out of fig leaves. We do the same thing. When we decide that we're going to live, how we think we should live, and we're rebelling against God, and we know it because we're still made in His image and we still have a soul and we still have a conscience, we hide from God. And we attempt to cover ourselves with a veneer of respectability, but all of our efforts are no better. than making a suit of clothes out of fig leaves. It's just not going to cut it. And so God, in compassion on Adam and Eve, came down, searched them out. questioned them, gave them that very first gospel promise that Sean told us about at the very beginning. I'm going to send someone who's going to be a seed of the woman. She's going to defeat. He's going to defeat the head the serpent and the serpent's going to wound him. But then God did something else. He clothed Adam and Eve with skins, with animal skins, which would be a much better covering for their shame than the fig leaves. But in order for that to happen, animals had to die. And so you had the first animal sacrifice. It was performed by God Himself to provide a covering for the shame of his people. And that's why sacrifices are required. Because we are guilty and we are ashamed and we need a cleansing and we need a covering. Not long after Adam and Eve rebelled, God kicked them out of the Garden of Eden because they couldn't be in the presence of God while they were in sinful rebellion. And they had two boys, Adam or Abel and Cain. And Abel made a sacrifice of the firstborn of his flock, but Cain presented a sacrifice of some of the grain from the earth. Abel's sacrifice showed that he understood the serious cost of sin and the need for an atoning sacrifice, while Cain's sacrifice was much more like a cheap attempt to pay God off. and get him off his back. How much do I have to give to get you to back off and leave me alone? You see, there's two different things happening. With Abel's sacrifice, it is a picture of atonement, a sacrifice that is costly. A sacrifice that could cleanse and cover. It's only a picture of it, but it's a picture of that. Whereas Cain's sacrifice was an attempt at appeasement An attempt to bargain with God and sort of pay God off. God didn't accept Cain's sacrifice. Cain got mad about it. God warned him. Does this sound disconnected from our lives? It's not. We do it People imitate Cain whenever they bargain with God and try to offer him little offerings to get him off their backs For example, someone might say, fine God, I'll go to church on Christmas Eve with my family, but then I'm done until Easter, okay? That's a pathetic attempt to pay God off rather than to be reconciled to God, to be cleansed, to be covered, to be made right before God. God gave another picture of our need for atonement thousands of years later when his people were in bondage in the land of Egypt. They were in slavery, they were under the Egyptian overlords, and God delivered them out of Egyptian bondage. He did so by sending a series of plagues to curse the Egyptians for their stubborn, willful rebellion against the Word of God and their determination to enslave the people of God. And there were plagues and plagues and plagues, and the last one, the tenth plague, was the worst of them all. It was the death of the firstborn males of every family in the land. And if you think that's a bit harsh, you don't understand the cost of sin, what sin does to human hearts and to human families and to human societies, or what it meant that through all of these nine plagues over months of time, the Egyptians dug their heels in and said, We will not stop enslaving and oppressing God's people. So God sent the last plague, the death of the firstborn. But He told the people, if you will take a lamb brought into your house, Spotless, and you will sacrifice it, and you will put the blood of the lamb on the doorposts of your house and over the doorway of your house, if you will be under the blood of the Lamb, I will pass over. That's why we call it Passover. I will pass over your house and not strike you with judgment. Two things to note about this. One, God's people needed the covering of the blood of the Lamb too, because God's people were also guilty. They may not have been the enslavers, but they were still rebellious. They were still sinful. They needed the covering too The other thing to note is that God extended this invitation to anyone who would put the blood of the Lamb on their house. It wasn't just for the Israelites. It wasn't a nationalist thing. It was an open invitation to anyone to come under the mark of the blood of the Lamb. And the multitude that left Egypt in the Exodus was a mixed multitude. There were Egyptian households who joined the Israelites in their Exodus because God has always been about extending grace to all. people. And so we see the need for a sacrificial lamb. But we also see that these little pictures of sacrificial lambs don't work. After the Exodus, God put in place a law, and the law called for regular sacrifices every morning, every evening. And on special occasions, especially on the Day of Atonement, there were animal sacrifices, there was blood that was shed, but it never it never cleansed the people. Their sin remained. But at the same time, the Lord promised. The Lord promised his people full satisfaction. The Lord promised his people a real and final atonement for sin. Psalm 130 calls the people of Israel to hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption. The prophet Zechariah promised, God promised through Zechariah, I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day. But perhaps the most compelling, perhaps the most beautiful promise of this coming atonement came through the prophet Isaiah in chapter 53. Listen to this promise that was given 700 years before Jesus was born, and listen for the language of the Lamb. He was despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteem him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds We are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth like a lamb. That is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? And so Jesus came in exact fulfillment of that prophecy as the Lamb of God. When he was arrested and unjustly put on trial, he did not object. He did not defend himself. He did not act with power miraculously to strike dead the Roman soldiers who were taking him to be crucified. He willingly offered himself for us and for our salvation. And while Hebrews 10 tells us, it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sin, listen to what the author of Hebrews goes on to say next. He says every priest stands daily at his sacrifice, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices which can never take away sins, but when Christ Had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet, for by a single offering he has perfected for all time Those who are being sanctified. There's one final sacrifice that's effective to remove sin forever, and it's the sacrifice of Jesus. the Lamb of God. He came to offer what no other human being could offer because we're all guilty. And he's the one who is of infinite worth as the Son of God. And he offered himself willingly in our place. If we trust in him and if we belong to him by faith. Listen to what Pastor R. G. Lee of previous generations said about the incarnation of Jesus at that first Christmas. I love this. Christ, who in eternity rested motherless upon the father's bosom, and in time rested fatherless upon a woman's bosom. Clasping the ancient of days who had become the infant of days. What deep descent from the heights of glory to the depths of shame, from the wonders of heaven to the wickedness of earth From exaltation to humiliation, from the throne to the tree, from dignity to debasement, from worship to wrath. From the halls of heaven to the nails of earth, from coronation to the curse, from the place of glory to the place of gory death. In Bethlehem, humility and glory in their extremities are joined, born in a stable, cradled in a cattle trough, wrapped in swaddling clothes of poverty, no room For him who made all rooms, no place, for him who made and knows all places. Oh, the deep humiliation of the Creator, born of the creature, woman. But in his descent was the dawn of mercy. Because we cannot ascend to him, he descends to us. That is the fundamental difference. Listen to me. That is the fundamental difference between the Christian gospel that we remember at Christmas time and every other religion in the world. Every other religion in the world is some sort of effort to ascend to God through works. Pilgrimage, giving, whatever, I will somehow appease God Only the Christian gospel says, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son. So that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. It's a gift given, not a status earned. Appeasement is trying to earn something from God. Atonement is what God provides in His Son. And the even better good news of the gospel is that the Lamb of God, who offered himself in sacrifice for the sins of the world, did not remain dead. Three days later he was raised again from the dead. He was seen by hundreds of people. He was touched by those who most doubted his resurrection. He ate with his disciples And he finally ascended back into heaven, where he sits at the right hand of the Father in glory, the Lamb of God who died and rose again. He now lives and reigns forevermore. And he's interceding for all those who come to him in faith The last book of the Bible, the Book of Revelation, pictures the Lamb of God as the triumphant one who was dead but is now alive forevermore, and who reigns as King of kings and Lord of Lords, and who is coming again to judge the living and the dead. And who makes us clean and holy forever. If we will stop. If we will stop trying to bargain with God And instead, trust in what God has provided in Jesus Christ and receive by faith the most precious gift of all. What we most need, what we could never provide for ourselves, full forgiveness, reconciliation to God, eternal life with Him, if we will do that. Then we will have so much more than just a Merry Christmas. We will have a peace and life That the world grasps for but never finds, that it promises in its advertising, but never actually delivers. We will find the one our souls were made to enjoy forever. I pray that all of us who are here tonight Would find that life, that gift, that peace in Jesus, in Jesus alone. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, there is no one like you. You are the one true God, the one who made everything, the one who upholds everything, the one who gave us life, the one who keeps us. And you gave your most precious gift. You gave your son The King of glory, the eternal Son of God, who came so low, wrapped in cloth, laid in a manger. Surrounded by animals, but even more came to sink even lower to the cross and to the grave that we might be forgiven, that we might have peace. May we find in Christ the peace we need. Not only this Christmas, but for the rest of our lives and for all of eternity. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.