Come with me, please, in God's word, to Isaiah 42. Isaiah 42, we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 9, which is the first of four servant songs that we find in In Isaiah, Isaiah forty-two, verses one through nine. This is the word of God God. Behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen in whom my soul delights I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth And the coastlands wait for his law. Thus says God, the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out. who spread out the earth and what comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it. I am the Lord. I have called you in righteousness. I will take you by the hand and keep you. I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations, to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out from prison, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison those who sit in darkness. I am the Lord That is my name, my glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved images. Behold, the former things have come to pass And new things I now declare, before they spring forth, I tell you of them. Father, your word is powerful. It's full of truth. It shows us Christ. These are the words of eternal life. Would you please write them on our hearts by your Holy Spirit as we consider your word together? In Jesus' name. Amen. If you are really passionate about something You sing about it. There are songs for sports teams. There are songs for schools, right? This morning, I had a wonderful moment of triumph in my life. When I successfully figured out a very tricky wordle, and my wife did not. And so I officially defeated the Queen of the Wertle and I wanted to sing. I wanted to sing for joy. I'm not competitive at all. But seriously, we sing about things that we're excited about. We sing about our country. We sing about romantic love. We sing about, you know the beauty of of the world around us. And this morning we come to a song that God is singing God sings first about his beloved and chosen servant, and then he sings to his beloved and chosen servant. We call it a servant song. There are four of these in the book of Isaiah, and they're really rich gospel songs. And the first one here is in chapter 42. We'll get to another one in chapter 49. There's a third one in chapter 50. And then the fourth and longest of all the servant songs. Begins at the end of Isaiah 52 and continues through Isaiah 53. And all of these songs are designed to reveal to us this servant of the Lord. who is going to accomplish salvation for the people of God. This is the only one of the songs we're going to cover before our summer break. Well we go to the Psalms. So just to give you a little preview, next week we'll be continuing in Isaiah 42, but then with the first Sunday in June We're going to be doing another summer in the Psalms, and we'll be going through the Psalms in June, July, and August, and then coming back to Isaiah in September. The song begins by the Lord singing about this servant and showing us his character and his mission. Listen again to verses 1-4. Behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench. He will faithfully bring forth justice He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth and the coastlands wait for his law. The very first thing that the Lord says about his beloved servant is, behold. Behold, or look, or pay attention, or don't you see him? Now, if you look back a little bit in Isaiah, back to 41, you'll see that this is actually the third time in just a few verses that we've had this word, behold. Look back at chapter 41 and you'll see in verse 24, God is actually speaking to the idols that he's summoned to his presence. We looked at this last week. And he says to these idols, Behold, you are nothing, and your work is less than nothing. And then in verse 29, he speaks to his people about the idols, and he says, Behold, they are all a delusion. Their works are nothing. So there's a flow here that, you know, Isaiah is a very structured, very poetic, wonderful book. But there's a flow here. At the end of 41, God speaks to the idols about how they are nothing. And then he speaks about the idols, about how they are delusion, right? And then he speaks about his servant and says He's the one I uphold. He's the chosen one. He's the one that I delight in. And then he speaks to his servant and says, I have called you. I will take you. I will give you. And so the contrast that we're not supposed to miss is just how utterly worthless and useless all idols are, and how the servant is completely different from that. He's chosen. He's upheld. He's beloved. He's going to bring forth justice. He is the one who's going to do what those idols can't do. In the end, all idols are worthless nothing. They make promises they can't keep because they have no power and they have no love because in fact they are. Nothing. But the Lord calls us to behold this servant who fulfills all of God's promises and purposes. And so who is this servant? There's some debate in Bible scholar circles of who who's the servant of the Lord. Is it Israel? Because some of the language seems to be language that is about Israel. Or is it the Messiah? Or is it both? Well, it seems very clear from the context of these songs. And from what they sing about the servant of the Lord, especially the fourth one that we'll get to sometime in chapter 53, that these are songs about Jesus. Jesus, the promised Messiah. And the reason why a lot of it sounds like Israel is because Jesus, the promised Messiah, is the one who comes to do what Israel failed to do. Israel was to be the son of God who would be a light to the nations, but they failed to do that. They were an unfaithful son of God. They were a broken lamp, a dim darkness light. Right? And so God sends forth his Son into the world to be what Israel failed to do. So these are songs about Jesus. And in fact the first three lines. Of this song, Behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him. Look at this first three lines. They're almost an exact anticipation. Of what the Lord will say and will do from heaven at the baptism of Jesus when he begins his earthly ministry. We find that in Matthew chapter 3. Listen to what happens at the baptism In Matthew three, verses sixteen and seventeen. And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened And he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him. And behold, a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. God says, Behold, here's the one. Almost the exact same wording as the first couple of lines from Isaiah 42, and then the Spirit coming down. I have put my spirit upon him. As the servant of the Lord Jesus embodied and he fulfilled all that Israel was supposed to be, but always fell short of being. And here's the good news for us. How does it connect to us? Because if you trust in Jesus, if you belong to God by faith in Jesus, Jesus Christ, then you are in Christ. You are united to him by faith. You are in Christ, and Christ is in you. Those aren't just words. That's reality. And part of what that means is that what God says here about his son also applies to us by grace. We are chosen. We are upheld. The Lord delights in us. And he puts his spirit upon us. As his children, because, not because of who we are, we're no better than Israel was. But because of who Christ is, what he did, and the fact that by God's grace we've been joined to him. And so if you're sitting here wondering this morning, I wonder what God thinks of me. I'm kind of a mess up. I don't ever follow through on my commitments. I'm kind of inconsistent. I have really bad thoughts. I have really bad habits I can't seem to break. I disappoint people. I disappoint myself. God's probably up there in heaven saying, when is this guy ever going to get his act together? No. Because God sees you in Christ. And God says, I am the one who upholds you. I'm the one who chose you. I am the one who delights in you. And I'm the one who puts my spirit upon you. And that will never change. It can never change because Christ never changes, because he is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and we are in him, and he is in us. That is what God says of us. Jesus fully depended on the empowering Holy Spirit to do the work that God gave him to do. When Peter was telling Cornelius the Centurion about Jesus in Acts chapter 10, he said to him, how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, and he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. That is The picture of what it means to have the Holy Spirit in us is to be empowered by the Holy Spirit to do the work that God has called us to do. And for Jesus, it was two main categories of it. He was doing good. And he was healing those who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. And Jesus said, at the end of John's Gospel, he said, As the Father has sent me, so I am sending you. And he said, So we're called to the same thing. We're called to go about doing good and healing all who are oppressed of the devil. That's by telling them the gospel so that they can find forgiveness. That's by teaching them how to grow in the Lord so that they can have more strength. What it doesn't mean to be filled with the Holy Spirit is that life is all of a sudden easy. To be filled with the Holy Spirit does not mean that all of a sudden I live on some hyper-spiritual plane where nothing in the world bothers me and I'm just sort of walking around like I'm floating on a cloud all day long and I don't have any problems because When the Holy Spirit anointed Jesus for his earthly ministry, what is the very first thing the Holy Spirit did? drove him out into the desert wilderness to be tempted by the devil for 40 days. Well we read right after the baptism. Jesus, when baptized, he went up, he was still with the Holy Spirit, and then Matthew 4 says, Jesus was led by the Holy Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil, Matthew 4. 1. So having the Holy Spirit is not a promise of an easy life. But it's a promise that God in us, greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. He who began a good work in you will be faithful to complete it in the day of Christ Jesus. Christ in you, the hope of glory. Empowered by the Holy Spirit, what was Jesus' character like as a man? He will not cry aloud or lift up his Voice or make it heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench. He will faithfully bring forth justice. Jesus had a very clear mission from God: bring forth justice for the nations. We'll talk more about what that meant and involved in a little bit. But when he carried out that mission on earth, he did so in a way that was humble. and gentle. Jesus has said of himself in Matthew chapter eleven, Come unto me. All you who are weary and heavy laden And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. And you will will find rest for your souls. We see the humility of Christ, we see the gentleness of Christ. The first the humility of Christ. Jesus was not a self-promoting egomaniac. He was not making a big noise for everyone to see how great he was. He wasn't a self-promoter. He wasn't a carnival sideshow man. In other words, he wasn't a modern-day politician. He wasn't telling everybody about how they should be on his side. In fact, he often urged people that he heals not to tell others about what he had done. But to give thanks to God. He didn't want to attract too much attention to himself. And in our day and age, in the day age day and age where we have this addiction to arrogant self-promotion, we have a hard time understanding why anyone would do that. But Jesus was in fact humble and he was gentle in how he dealt with weak and wayward sinners. A bruised reed he will not break. And a faintly burdened You have to be wise and gentle if you're dealing with a bruised reed. Reeds, you know, those thick grasses that grow near water and And they would use them for a variety of different purposes. But if the reed was bruised, you had to be careful because if you were going to use it as a staff, if you tried to put too much weight on it, it would collapse. You can't put too much weight on a bruised reed. You have to be gentle. A faintly burning wick is a wick that is almost extinguished Almost overwhelmed, right? It's headed up to here. Ever have those days? Ever had those days where like I'm keeping my head up so my nose is above the water? That's a faintly burning wick. And Jesus doesn't say, come on, get your act together. What is wrong with you? He will not extinguish. He will lift you up. He will raise you up. So that your light can burn brighter under His tender care. Jesus works well with the weak, the compromised, the struggling sinners who need His care. He's not eager to put more weight on us. He wants us to put the weight on him. He's not eager to push us down. He wants to lift us. Us up. If we look to him, if we trust him, if we call upon him, he will be patient. Not only does Jesus work with wisdom and gentleness with those who are weak and compromised, but he also is himself strong and persevering, so that nothing can break or quench him. Now we lose a little bit in the translation here because it says, the next line says, he will not grow faint or be discouraged And that's a good way to translate those verbs. We miss the fact that they're actually the same exact Hebrew verbs as were being used in verse 3. He will not break a bruised reed, he will not quench a faintly burning wick, and then he himself will not be broken or quenched. It's the same verbs that are being used. So not only is he gentle so as to preserve us from breaking or being quenched, but he himself has enough strength and perseverance that he himself will not be broken. And if you know the life of Jesus, you know that he had to persevere through some intense hardship. Jesus suffered in every way, just like we suffer He understood. He lost his earthly father Joseph at a fairly early age because by the time he began his earthly ministry at the age of 30, Joseph was already gone. He had younger brothers who didn't understand him and who thought he was a little bit unsettled and who tried to get him to be quiet and come home. They even got their mom to join in the effort. He had these thick-headed disciples who he taught and taught and taught and taught and taught and still Even on the night he was betrayed after he'd been with them for three years and he's about to get up and wash their feet, they're arguing about which one of them is the greatest. Oh no, Jesus likes me the best. I'm gonna have the right hand seat. Oh no, you're not. I'm gonna be on his right hand. And I mean James and John went so far as to have their mom Come up to Jesus and say, okay, Jesus, we're going to Jerusalem. Can you make sure that James is on one side and John's on the other side? Which is a deliberate power play move to squeeze out Peter He's got to deal with them. And he does so patiently He doesn't always, you know, he speaks the truth. He tells them, You're of little faith. But he's patiently dealing with them. And then, of course, one of his disciples The guy he entrusted to be the treasurer of the group sells him for 30 pieces of silver, hands him over to those who want to kill him. Another, one of those competing for the closest spot, denied that he even knew him three times, after swearing that he would go with him to the grave. Hours later denies three times. Almost all of them abandoned him. Only the youngest disciple John was there, and a couple of women when he died on the cross. And then of course, there was the intense agony at the very thought of becoming sin for us and for our salvation. There was the weight of the cross, and there was the weight of Of the wrath of God that was placed upon him, but none of it was able to stop him from doing what he had come to do. None of it. He was not crushed. He was not broken. He persevered in the work of our salvation until it was all accomplished, and he could cry out from the cross, it is finished. And so when God says in Philippians one that he who Began a good work in you will be faithful to complete it. We will know that just as he didn't let anything stop him during his earthling life, he's not going to let any of the circumstances of your life stop him from finishing what he's doing in you. So what exactly is the work of salvation that Jesus was sent to accomplish? Well we're told it three times in the opening four verses. He'll bring forth justice to the nations. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth. Justice. Hmm. What does that mean? Well, maybe we should ask the question this way, and that is, what has brought injustice into the world? What has made it so that we need to have a Messiah come and bring justice? It's sin, right? It's our rebellion against God, it's our selfishness, it's our sin. And so Jesus came to bring justice by dealing with our sin. Sin destroys and undermines God's justice. And so sin must be dealt with. And Jesus' mission was to come and to remove the guilt and power of sin in order to free his people in all the world and establish justice in all the world. And so God speaks to his servant, to the Lord, and calls him to this task. Picking up in verse 5, thus says God the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and what comes from it who gives breath to his to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it. I am the Lord. It's almost exactly what he said to Moses, by the way, from the burning bush, when he says, I am the Lord, I am the great I am, I am who I am, I am Yahweh. I have called you in righteousness. I will take you by the hand and keep you. I will give you as a covenant for the people. A light for the nations to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison those who sit in darkness. So when Jesus comes into the world to deal with sin and to establish justice, there's three things that God calls him to. First is to be a covenant for the people. People. Second is to be a light for the nations, opening eyes that are blind. And the third is to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, those who sit in darkness. So Jesus comes to be a covenant. What is a covenant? We experience covenant in covenant. In two ways primarily in our lives in this world. One is marriage, right? Marriage Covenant, that's actually a pretty good analogy. But the other way we deal with it is many of us, not me. many of you live in a neighborhood where you're under some sort of covenant obligations of like what color paint you can use and how big the bushes in front of your house can be and how often you have to cut your grass and stuff like that. We don't have any of that where I live. So but that's a really bad one. But what do we get with this if this idea of covenant? Well it's a relationship of commitment with rules, but it's based on promise. So marriage is actually the better analogy because it is a committed relationship established in promise. Jesus comes to be in himself the covenant. He expresses the Last Supper with words that you hear me say whenever we serve the Lord's Supper together. This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sin. Any of you ever grow up and uh become blood brothers with somebody and make that blood brothers Brother Oath, right? You cut yourself and they cut themselves and you sort of mix your blood together. I never did it in like a serious way, it was just like a little bit of blood, a little bit of blood at the fingertips, you know. Yeah. Um that's that's a little earthly picture, like the idea I'm committed to you. Jesus went all the way. Jesus said, I am yours and you are mine. We belong to each other forever, and it is in my blood that this is sealed. That is powerful. That is the strongest commitment. That is the strongest oath. That is the strongest bond. It is one that cannot be broken. And it's for the people. The people here are the people of God who come from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. It's you and me, and all of us who belong to Jesus by faith. Jesus comes not only as a covenant for the people, but as light for the nations to open the eyes of the blind. Before Jesus, God's light was supposed to be kept by Israel, especially in the temple and in the law. And that's why inside the temple there would be a lampstand burning. And everything inside the temple was covered with gold. Can't imagine what that would be like. Going into a room where there's, you know, a seven light candle burning and every Everything in the room is covered with polished gold. I mean that's glorious light, right? That's the picture he gives. Glorious light. And in the inner place, in the Holy of Holies, in the Ark of the Covenant, which was the footstool of God, represented the very purpose of God, in there was the law of God, the Ten Commandments. So in the temple and in the law, Israel were the keepers of the light. But what they were supposed to do is to shine that light to the nations as a beacon, like a lighthouse, to say, hey, come here and see God. And when we talk about the light of God, we're talking about the truth of God as opposed to the lies that are in the world, the righteousness of God as opposed to the sin that's in the world. The justice of God as opposed to the injustice that's in the world. Come and see God's truth. Come and see God's righteousness. Come and see God's justice. And that's what Israel's calling was, to be that light, to be that beacon. How'd they do? Have you read the Old Testament? Because it's not a pretty picture. And we get arrogant and say, man, they did a terrible job. How would you and I do if we were put in their place? How do we do having much more resources than they were ever given? So Jesus comes into the world to be the light of the world that Israel failed to be. He comes into the world as the light of the world. He is the very radiance of truth. Truth with no mixture of error, of righteousness with no stain of sin, and of justice with no hint of injustice. And as we belong to Him, Jesus calls us The light of the world. Just as the polished surfaces in the temple were to reflect the radiance of the lampstand, we are to reflect the radiance of Christ. by receiving and then by putting out to the world. Jesus is like the sun. He has his own radiance. We are like the moon with a reflected radiance. But the moon only reflects the radiance when it receives it from the sun. It doesn't have any Of its own. Another analogy I used with my kids when they were little, they probably don't remember this, but glow-in-the-dark things. Right? How do glow-in-the-dark things work? You first have to expose them to the light, right? If you leave a glow-in-the-dark thing, like shut up in a drawer or in a box for like a month, and you turn off the lights and you take it out, is it gonna glow? No, because it hasn't been exposed. To the light. But as you expose it to the light, then you turn off the lights and it shines. It doesn't have any power in itself, it doesn't have any radiance in itself. But it can receive the light and then share that in the darkness. That's what we're called to be. We're called to be that in a world that is full of darkness. And we should not be surprised that the world is full of darkness. I'm guilty of this too because look, the world is My brothers and I went out last night for a sort of joint birthday celebration, dinner, and movie because we've all had birthdays. days recently. And we're all in our 50s now. At the very end of the night, I looked at my brothers and I said, just think. We've got 159 years of life experience between the three of us. And my brother is like, why did you have to say that. So we're out and we're just we're observing how we're old guys now, right? And how do we know that we're old guys now? Because we're like young people these days. And it really is like if you've been out like on a Friday night or a Saturday night, we were in White Marsh at the Avenue, like it's not good. The things you hear, the things you smell, detail, but it's like, what? And it it can feel like sometimes all we can do is like say Man, there's a lot of darkness around. Man, there's a lot of darkness around. Man, there's a lot of darkness around. But guess what? Guess what? That's not shining the Cursing the darkness is not the same thing as shining the light. We're to speak the truth. We're to live lives of righteousness. and justice and love and mercy and grace were to give to others what God has given to us. If we say, thank you, Lord, that though I am a bruised reed You do not overwhelm me and crush me. Thank you, Lord, that though I am a faintly burning wick, you do not push me down under the oil to put me out. Then treat others that way. That's what we need to do is to say, okay, they even have even less light than we do. Let's speak the truth to them in love. Let's pray for them. Let's shine the light. Jesus is at work, pushing back the darkness in our own hearts and lives. And he wants to push through us into the world. The third thing that Jesus comes to do is not only to be a covenant for the people of God and a light for the nations, but also to bring deliverance for those who are in prison. He brings out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison those who sit in darkness. Why are we saying, and can it be? favorite hymn on being rescued from the darkness of prison. We by nature are imprisoned by the darkness of our own spiritual blindness and by the dungeon prison of our own Sin and condemnation. We need to have our eyes opened. We need to be set free. Through these three things, covenant Light, and deliverance. God meets our deepest needs. We are Alone and isolated, cut off, alienated from God, alienated from one another, even alienated from ourselves. We are in darkness, in our ignorance, and our Our unbelief. We are condemned, awaiting execution in prison for our own crimes. And Jesus comes in and says, I will be your covenant to restore your relationship with God. and with one another. I will be your light to give you truth and righteousness and justice. I will be your deliverance to bring you out of prison, out of condemnation, so that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ. Jesus, but only justification and no separation from the love of God. That's what we need, and that's what Jesus Jesus came to do. And Jesus could come to do it. Verses 8 and 9 show us very quickly that Jesus could come to do it because he was nothing less than the incarnation of the glory of God. Now that might not be super obvious here, but it is here. Look at verse 8: I am the Lord, that is my name, my glory I give to no other. Nor my praise to carved idols. Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I now declare, before they spring forth, I tell you every The amazing and surprising thing about Jesus as the servant of the Lord is that he was actually the embodiment of the glory of the Lord. The Lord has a glory that he speaks of. He says twice in this passage, I am the Lord. He says it to his servant. In verse 6, I am the Lord, I have called you. And then he says it to his people, I am the Lord, that is my name. And he says, My glory I give to no other. He has a glory that is unique. He has a glory that is unsurpassed. Glory is this combination of weightiness and radiance. That is someone who is significant and someone who is significant. Who makes a difference and God is glorious in a way that no one else is. And Jesus, as the servant of the Lord, this is what really stunned God's people, and they couldn't really grasp this. Wait a minute, is he saying that he's the Son of God? Wait a minute. He's talking like he is God. How could that be? Because that's who we are. We were already told that way back in Isaiah 9:6. The promise of the Messiah was, For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. And some people want to dismiss that and say, it just meant he's a mighty God. God, and he's an everlasting father, not necessarily the mighty God. It's like, well, how many gods do you want to have? How many everlasting fathers are there? He's God. And it's in the Gospel of John that this really is very clearly manifest. Comes to us in the very beginning of John's Gospel, where we read, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning. Beginning with God. All things were made through Him. Without Him was not anything made that was made. In Him was life. And the life is the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. This true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. And then in verse 14: the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Son. The Father, full of grace and truth. Jesus. When he spoke, whenever they wanted to kill him in John's gospel, it was because he told the truth about who he was. He would say things like, unless you believe that I am he, you will die in your sins. And then he says, before Abraham was, I am. Remember what I am the Lord is? I am who I am. Well in Jesus, in John's gospel, when he keeps saying, I am, I am the light of the world. And unless you believe that I am, you will die in your sins. And before Abraham was, I am, he keeps saying that. They're like, wait a minute, are you saying you're the Lord? I've already told you. You see, he can come and he can do what no one else can do because he is God in the flesh. It takes nothing less than the power of God to save us and to make this world right. And Jesus is nothing less than the power of God come to save us. And if you believe in Jesus, if you belong to God through faith in him, God is saving you. God is upholding you. God will see it through Until one day, until one day, you will be perfect in holiness. Just like Jesus. You will be face to face with him in glory, in perfect truth, righteousness, justice, holiness, and love. You will live forever with Jesus. And all of his redeemed and glorified people, and nothing will ever separate you from his love forever. And if you don't know Jesus, there's no other way to get there but by Jesus. Because no one else is God come to save us. You're not, and I'm not. And your parents aren't, Jesus is. So go to him, call upon him, and live for him. He might save you. All the ends of the earth, every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, will be gathered in to that great assembly when Jesus comes And we will all sing of what moves our hearts the most deeply. And it won't be a song about America, And it won't be a song about young love. And it won't be a song about our favorite sports team. We will sing the song of the lamb forever and ever. We will say words Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and glory and wisdom and light forever and ever. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, there is no one like you. Lord Jesus, there is no Savior but you. Holy Spirit, there is no power for living but you Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, be glorified in our lives. Until that day when we are all home, face to face. Amen.