Psalm sixteen, a miktim of David Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. I say to the Lord, You are my Lord. I have no good apart from you. As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones, in whom is all my delight. The sorrows of those who run after another God shall multiply. Their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out, or take their names on my lips. The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup. You hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. I bless the Lord, who gives me counsel In the night also my heart instructs me. I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I shall not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad, and my whole being rejoices. My flesh also dwells secure. For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol or let your holy one see corruption. You make known to me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. Heavenly Father, we are stunned by your grace to us That you would delight to give us good and pleasant things, your presence with us, your wisdom for us Your people around us, your refuge and your preservation of us. And in the end to be in your very presence. All because you delight in us. All because you love us. We're stunned by such grace. Would you please write this psalm deep in our hearts that we might be compelled Be controlled in our thinking, in our loving, in our acting by your surpassing goodness and greatness and your love for us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. By the way, I didn't forget my tie today. I got overheated during setup time, just like no tie today. So. Privileges. Privileges. Psalm 16 lays out for us the privileges of belonging to the Lord. If you ever travel overseas, you'll be told repeatedly, and it's important to know, that you need to keep your U. S. passport with you at all times. Because there are privileges that come with being a citizen of the United States in a foreign country It's a privilege. It carries distinct benefits, including a certain level of respect, access to U. S. consulates and other resources, and some peace of mind knowing that you're not alone, but you're part of a nation that you belong to as a citizen. Of course, there are some limitations, and there are also some costs that come with this. Some people dislike Americans, and others may target you to scam you. assuming that you're rich because you're an American. So privileges, but also limitations and liabilities that come with that as well. For the believer, we belong to the Lord. Our citizenship is in heaven. We are part of the family of God. And we have great privileges, and they are lined out for us. here in Psalm 16, and we should rejoice in those, but we should also understand that it also comes with hostility. Which we're reminded of by the opening line of Psalm 16, preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. We as believers need an extra measure of refuge because we are under attack in ways that non-believers aren't. Yesterday We got a very powerful demonstration of why certain people have privileges that we don't have. We don't have Secret Service people surrounding us and preparing venues and watching out for us because thankfully we don't need them. But for those who do have those privileges of Secret Service protections because they need them. And it's been a long time since We've seen in that way the need for the Secret Service protection, but we got a demonstration of that yesterday. And so we should that should remind us to continue to pray as Jonathan did. for the men and women who need that kind of protection as well as for the men and women who are given that kind of protection because it's a dangerous world and we live in dangerous times. But we as believers need to be reminded that it is a dangerous world. And we live in dangerous times always, because we are always targeted. In a way that the Secret Service could not protect us from, but in a way that the Lord does protect us from. The Lord provides us with preservation and with a refuge that nothing in this world can give us But he does give it to us, and he is sufficient for that. In the Lord, as believers, we have great benefits in this life and for eternity. One place where we can get a list of some of these benefits is in the Westminster Shorter Catechism. There's a few questions and answers in the catechism that deal with the benefits we get from being justified and adopted by God. In this life We're told that we receive assurance of God's love, peace of conscience, joy in the Holy Ghost. Increase of grace and perseverance in that grace to the end. And then in the life to come, we get benefits both at death and at the resurrection of the body at the last day. At death, our souls are immediately made perfect in holiness and righteousness, and we pass immediately into glory. To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. Immediately the believer passes from a consciousness of this life into the glorious presence of God. But then on the day of resurrection, we receive new bodies, raised up in glory. We are openly acknowledged and acquitted in the day of judgment, and we are made perfectly blessed in body and soul to the full enjoying of God for all eternity. And that's where Psalm 16 ends. So those are a list of benefits from the catechism. Of course, the catechism is based on Scripture, and what we'll see is that many of those benefits are actually coming from Psalm 16 in other passages as well. But God blesses his people. One of the things we need to see, I'll make a very profound observation, is that Psalm 16 follows after Psalms 14 and 15. We all learned how to count, so we're good on that, right? But it's a reminder that the Psalms are actually arranged the way that they are intentionally, and I I told you about that as we went from 14 to 15, but let me recap and tell you These three really, I think, go together quite beautifully. In Psalm 14, David's under attack, and uh he's under attack by fools around him who say there is no God and he he he needs the Lord. But he realizes that actually when the Lord looks down from heaven, he sees that there are no one. There's no one righteous, not even one. So even though he needs protection from the Lord against people, he doesn't even qualify for it because he's as sinful as the rest of the world. And yet there are people according to Psalm 14, who are called the righteous, the generation of the righteous, for whom the Lord is a refuge. Psalm 15, we get a description of the righteous person, the person who has access to God for now and for eternity, who shall not be moved from his access to God. And it's a picture of perfect righteousness. Which again, we don't match up to, but someone does. There is a man who fulfills Psalm 15. And we are not righteous in and of ourselves. We are of those who are there's no one who does good, not even one, Psalm 14 But in Christ we are the generation of the righteous. And so if we are counted righteous in Christ, we're made righteous in Christ. Psalm 16 unpacks for us what that means for us in this life and in eternity. What does it mean to belong to the Lord? Now Psalm 16, I'm telling you it's a unfolding of the benefits of belonging to the Lord, but don't think, obviously, it's not a sterile and factual catalog of benefits. It's not a bullet point list of here are the things you get if you belong to the Lord. Point one, point two, point three. It's also not some cheesy sales pitch like you would see on a bad infomercial. But wait, there's more. Act now and you'll also get wisdom from the, you know. No, it's not one of those This, like so many other psalms, is a heart cry from David in distress. When the Psalm opens, preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge, we know that David is in distress. And yet This is, the title says, a mictum of David. And I know that all of you, when you see a miktim of David, you know that means it's a teaching psalm. It's given to instruct you, because your Hebrew is really good. But it that's what it means. It it is a psalm for instruction. So even though it's coming out of David's own urgent need for protection, he's not only Rehearsing to his own soul the benefits and blessings he has in God when he's in distress and needing refuge, but it's also setting a pattern for the rest of us. The very first pattern that we see in the first two lines is that David comes to God as someone who knows him. Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. I say to the Lord, You are my Lord. You see that in verse 1 and the first line of verse 2. We see that David knows the Lord. And one of the ways we see that David knows the Lord is not only does he say, You are my Lord. But he also, in these opening two lines, uses the three main names for God that are used in Hebrew Scripture He says, preserve me, O Elohim, O mighty one, O powerful one, because God is strong and you need a strong refuge And then he says, I say to the Lord, to Yahweh, that's the covenant name of God, the great I am, I am who I was and always will be. This is the unchanging and self-sufficient one, the one whose promises are never broken because he never changes and he needs nothing from anyone. And so we can depend on him. That's his covenant name. And he is my Lord. You are my Lord, my Adonai, my master, my Lord, my ruler. So David is a man after God's own heart. He knows the Lord. He knows him as his Lord. He knows him as God Almighty who can protect him. David is fleeing for refuge. But to find it in the Lord, he has to be qualified to be able to find it in the Lord. And that's one of the first things I want us to see is that If you need refuge from the Lord, which you do, you have to be qualified to get it. If you were fleeing from an enemy And you came to a strong tower or a fortress or a safe house and you wanted to get in and get protection, they're not just going to let anybody in. You have to know the password or you have to be recognized by the people who run it. Get back to our opening illustration about carrying your US passport. That's why really you need to carry your US passport if you go into a foreign country, because if something happens Let's say a terrorist attack happens, or let's say war breaks out all of a sudden, or some big riot happens, and you're running for your life. You're going to go, if you're smart, you're going to look up where the nearest U. S. consulate is, and you're going to go there. And when you get there, you better have your U. S. passport. Because if it's chaos all around, they ain't going to let you in unless you've got that blue book in your hand. And then they let you in. Well, God doesn't come to the rescue of just anyone. There's a lot of people who are in distress. Oh, Lord, please get me out of this And what do they do in those moments? If they don't really know the Lord, what do they do in those moments when they're stuck, when they're trapped, and they need rescue? They start bargaining with God. Right? Imagine someone showing up, let's say, in Sudan, where we have dear brothers that I've worked with for years, who are Suffering from this terrible civil war that's happening in Sudan. When that civil war broke out Anybody who was an American or a British citizen was immediately running to try to get to a closest consulate or closest place where they could go. And imagine Someone who's not a citizen showing up at the U. S. consulate and saying, let me in, let me in. They're like, where's your U. S. passport? They're like, I don't have a U. S. passport. Here's a bunch of money. I'll give you a bunch of money. Are they going to open the door for him? No. But that's what unbelievers are doing when they try to bargain with God in those moments of Lord, if you're there, please save me, and I promise I'll go to church. I promise. Sometimes God is gracious and he uses prayers like that to bring people to himself, but he's under no obligation to hear those kinds of prayers because that person doesn't really know the Lord. You see, David had to be able to come to the Lord and say, I said to the Lord, you are my Lord. You are my master, you are my ruler, you are my king. If you're going to cry out to the Lord for refuge, you have to be able to say, Lord, Father, my Father, my Lord. He has to be yours, and you have to be his, and that only comes through faith in Jesus Christ. The only way God is your Father is if you have faith in Jesus Christ. If you are not trusting in yourself, but you're trusting in Jesus, and by faith you've been united to Jesus And your sin has been put on him, and his righteousness has been put on you, and you've been adopted as a child of God, and then you have ready access to the Lord as your refuge. But only then. Kids, if you're here and you haven't yet professed faith in Jesus Christ for yourself You need the Lord to be your Lord. You need to believe in Jesus Christ for your salvation. It's not enough to say, oh, my parents believe. He's he's my parents God. Is he your God? In Genesis Jacob goes fleeing from Esau and he's heading out of the promised land. He's going to go spend some time with Laban and he sees a vision of God and the heavens open up and there's a ladder and there are angels ascending and descending on that ladder, which is actually a picture of Jesus that he's being given supernaturally And what's very interesting is if you read that account in Genesis, when he responds to the Lord, the Lord is not his Lord yet at that point. He's the God of his father and of his grandfather. And he says to him, if you will keep me safe. And if you will bring me back to this place, then you will be my Lord. It's not until years later that God meets him in the night and wrestles with him all night long. And changes his name from Jacob to Israel, that God becomes his God. No one gets into heaven No one gets access to the throne of grace as a child of God simply because their parents believe There are privileges to having your parents believe. You are part of the church family. You hear the gospel from a young age. You're brought up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, but that's not enough. You have to believe And you have to profess that faith before others. Immediately after calling upon the Lord David says what we need to say and what we need to understand. He says, I say to the Lord, you are my Lord. I have no good apart from you. If you belong to God, you can say that. And you should say that. I have no good apart from you. You cannot separate God from you. from his good benefits. You cannot separate the Lord from the creation and from the blessings and benefits we receive in creation. There's three implications of this one line. I have no good apart from you means first all the good we have comes from God. All the good we have comes from God. Every Tasty bite of food, every laugh at a funny joke, every warm hug, every beautiful sunset, every beautiful piece of music, every walk beside the ocean, every good thing that you have ever experienced. Any joy, any pleasure, any happiness, any benefit, any blessing you've ever been given has been given to you directly by the hand of your Heavenly Father in love. It didn't just happen. You didn't get lucky. You know, Christians are never lucky. Christians are blessed by their father. Secondly, apart from God being good to us, we would have no good. Nothing would be good if we didn't know God. For the unbeliever who lives their life apart from God, even the good things that they receive in this life What are they? Temporary, meaningless things that will soon be lost forever. Apart from God being good to us, we would have no good. That's why hell is hell, I believe. Because it is separation from the goodness of God. And separation from the goodness of God brings only pain and loneliness and hopeless despair. And finally, the third thing we need to see is an implication from this is that everything God gives us is truly good. It is for his eternal glory and for our eternal good, and so it is good. Everything. Even cancer, even persecution. Even financial stress, even marriage conflict, it is an opportunity for us to grow in our dependence upon God, to draw closer to Christ, to grow in faith, in hope, and in love. And so, if it is true that we have no good apart from God, if it is true that all the good we have comes from God, and apart from him we would have no good, and that everything he gives us is truly good, that means we should be doing something. And it is one of the most common commands in Scripture, but one that is most neglected. We should be doing something if that's true. What should we be doing? We should give thanks in all circumstances. We should say thank you for everything all the time. Our life should be a continual. Wow, Lord, thank you. Lord, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Because we're continually being blessed by God. The next thing that we see in verse 3 is that belonging to God means that we are privileged to belong to and delight in God's people. Verse three, as for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. When we are made members of Christ, we are joined to his body, and we are made members of one another. As brothers and sisters in Christ, we share the same Heavenly Father. We are part of the same family. We are citizens of the same kingdom. We read and follow the same book. We've been saved by the same Savior. We're heading to the same eternal home, and we share in the same Holy Spirit And the Holy Spirit has gifted us to serve one another as stewards of the varied grace of God according to the gifts He's given to us. by speaking, teaching, preaching, serving, giving, praying, helping, administrating, leading, and loving one another And here's something that we need to know. No other bond or association we can have with other people in this life is as deep, as life-changing, or as eternal as being brothers and sisters in Christ, children of God, adopted into his family together. And so we should be able to say with David, as for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. And sure, we can say I'm an American. I'm a Marylander. I'm an Orioles fan I'm a University of Maryland alumnus and a TERPS fan for life. We can say all those things, and they have a certain meaning, right? We meet another Orioles fan and we can say, Go O's, please beat the Yankees. I don't want to get swept by the Yankees. We just got swept by the Cubs. We can say things like that and we can have a little bond. A little bond. But ultimately, in the light of eternity, we know that doesn't really matter. Right? Ten million years from now, is anybody going to care whether the Orioles got swept by the Yankees or not in July of 2024? No, it doesn't matter, right? It's not that important But what will be even more important to us ten million years from now is who we are in Christ and the bond we have with one another. It's one of the reasons why we're committed to being an intergenerational church. Because so many churches are built on just sort of natural affiliation. In fact, when I went to a church planting uh workshop in Orlando, Florida years ago, They said the first thing you need to do is figure out your target demographic so you can structure The logo, the website, the worship service, music selection, preaching style, what the people up front are wearing, to be appealing to that target demographic. And I thought I thought our target demographic was sinners who need Jesus. And so we, it's not about boomers or Gen X or Millennials or Gen Z or Gen Alpha. I'm thankful we have all of those. And more. We even have some older than Boomer, uh greatest generation, silent generation people here. I'm thankful. But it's not about that. It's about the fact that we are brothers and sisters in Christ. The saints in the land are all our delight because they're the ones who understand. They understand at the deepest level what we're going through. The battles we face and the refuge we have. And they're walking this journey with us together. To contrast this, David then contemplates the reality of those who go after other gods in verse 4. The sorrows of those who run after another God shall multiply. Their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out or take up their names on my lips. Other gods are no true gods at all, but only demons. They don't love us. They don't keep their promises. They don't intend our good. Chasing after the false gods of this fallen world leads to a multiplication of sorrows. How many people have we seen run after pleasure or power or fame or comfort only to get caught up in the pursuit of these things that can never satisfy And lose the good things that God has given. Lose family, lose friends, lose church. We're in the midst of the great de-churching. I mentioned this at our congregational meeting a couple weeks ago. Sociologists are calling this the great de-churching. In the last generation, the last 25 years or so, more people have left the church in America than were saved in the Great Awakening. And the Second Great Awakening and all the Billy Graham Crusades put together. We've seen millions of people leave the church. And what's interesting is Seventy-five to eighty percent of people who leave the church profess to be Christians. They've left the church because they got busy doing other things. Sports is a big one. You know. Can't my kids in in travel sports and they have tournaments every Sunday. We got we just can't go to church. And what becomes What starts off as we need to occasionally miss church every now and again because there's a big important tournament because we don't go to church on Sunday at all, because we don't even have a church affiliation at all. Other times it's over politics Other times it's job or career. Other times it's just wanting to have that time to yourself. Wanting a day to spend with your family and not have to worry about going into church. 75 to 80 percent of people who have left the church in the last 25 years still profess to be Christians. But they have no affiliation with any church. They can't say the saints in the land are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. No, I'm running after another God. And they have multiplied sorrows because what happens, what you can see happen Is that a significant percentage of those people, a year or two or three or four or five after they've left the church, they're no longer following Jesus in any meaningful way. David says he's not going to participate in that. He's not going to participate in that at all. Sometimes we get fooled into thinking that the best way to love someone who's chasing after idols is to join them in their delusion and chase the same false gods with them, but that's a lie. And such pursuits only lead to sorrow. One of the things we learned in this week's Lord of the Rings Bible study was that in our culture, our culture separates issues of truth and love. And we talked about how there's a kingdom conflict between the kingdom of light and the kingdom of darkness, and God's light is truth and love and righteousness and goodness. And you can't separate those things. You can't say, well, truth and love are different from each other. They're not. And people in our culture, because our culture is pressing this message that those are two different things. The way our culture puts it is, your truth is your truth. It's a private thing. You keep it to yourself. What you show to other people is love, and love is defined as accepting and celebrating their truth And what we can do, what all of us, 100% of us, I believe, in this culture are tempted to do, is we tilt toward either, I'm going to speak the truth. And we forget to love people well, or we're pulled toward, I just need to love people, and we fail to speak the truth. The Bible calls us to speak the truth in love because truth and love in God's character are inseparable. God is truth, God is love. You're not actually loving someone if you don't speak the truth to them. But if you speak the truth to them in an unloving way, you're actually not speaking the truth to them. Because the truth is about God's love. So we need to reunite what the world has separated. And part of that is if you see people chasing after idols, you pray for them. You pity them, you share the gospel with them, but you don't run after what they're running after. I've even heard people take it so far as to say they actually want to go to hell and not to heaven because all their friends will be in hell and they'll have a good time there. I don't know if you've ever heard that line. This is kind of like fish lining up to be the next to take the tasty worm off the hook. knowing that they're going to be pulled into the fishing boat, but saying, well all my friends got pulled into the fishing boat, so I want to get pulled into the fishing boat too, and we'll have a good time once we're there. And it's only when the knife And the fire come that they realize too late how wrong they were, because no one has any friends in hell. Friendship is a gift of God that comes from his goodness. Take delight in God's people and invite the people you know in the world to join you in the pursuit of life, in the place of blessing. Invite them to come to the pancake breakfast or the movie night, and then invite them to come to church where they can find life. Then in verses five and six, David turns to think about the provision and the inheritance he has in the Lord. The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup. You hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. The Lord, Yahweh, is his chosen portion and his cup. The Lord Himself is David's best provision. That's why David could write psalms of praise while hiding in a cave from the army of Israel pursuing him and determined to murder him. Because even in the cave, he still had his chosen portion and his cup, because the Lord was with him. He could say, even though I go through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. And if God is with you, you are never alone and you are never without your greatest treasure. You could lose everything. Earlier we watched a video in Sunday school about Adam Iram and Ann Judson who were m missionaries to Burma and at one point in time it looked like they had just lost everything. Their whole compound that they had built was burned to the ground The scriptures that he had translated in the Burmese were lost. They had nothing. But they sat there and Anne says to Adam and Iran, what are we going to do? And he said, start over. Burma needs the gospel now more than ever. We start over. They still had the Lord. Now thankfully God had actually preserved the scriptures. And they were brought back to them, so their work wasn't lost, but they were never truly alone or abandoned. Your lot. God holds your lot. A lot is your assigned place or your provision. It has two meanings. One is the idea of casting lots, which is the idea of like chance, what happens to you by by seemingly random chance, but the other is a place that's marked out and prepared for you. We sometimes use the expression even in English of your lot in life. You just have to accept your lot in life. But David knows that God holds his lot And that because God holds his lot, what falls to him by chance doesn't fall to him by chance. It falls to him by the wise providence of God. And that it is good. He says the lines, the lines of my lot, the lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance The Lord holds our lot, and that means he gives us what we need when we need it. We don't know what we need. We sometimes think we do. And we probably can tell what we want, but we don't know what we need. And the reason why we don't know what we need is that we don't know what a day is going to hold That's one of the lessons of this past week. You don't know what a day is going to hold. You get up in the morning, you don't know what's going to happen before the end of that day. So how could you possibly know what you need for that day If you don't even know what's going to happen in that day. But God knows. And He's planned it out, and He holds your lot, and He gives you what you need. His sovereign goodness provides for us what we need when we need it. And he will be good to us, and he will hold us in our place. And it doesn't matter who your earthly parents are, or what they might or might not leave you as an inheritance, if you belong to the Lord You are well cared for in this life, and you are well cared for for eternity. You have a beautiful inheritance. 1 Peter, according to his great mercy, he caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance that is imperishable. undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. You have an imperishable inheritance. It is undefiled, it is unfading, it is kept in heaven for you, and your salvation will be revealed in the last time. There's nothing in this world that could ever compete with that. Elon Musk could adopt you as his only child and disinherit all of his other weirdly named children that he has by random child women. He could just say, you are going to be my sole heir. And it it couldn't touch. It would be a perishable inheritance. It couldn't touch what Jesus has secured for us. That's why Jesus said, do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. Where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. Jesus said that because he loves us, and because he wants us to live for that which lasts, and that which truly matters. And it's so easy to live for stuff that just doesn't matter that much Not only do we have God's good provision for our every need and an eternal inheritance, but we also have wisdom Look at verses seven and eight. I bless the Lord who gives me counsel. In the night also my heart instructs me. I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken. The more life I live, the more I value wise counsel. I am still, sadly, somewhat suspect to flattery Because I like people telling me what I like to hear. But the older I get, the more I realize I don't need you to tell me what I want to hear. I need you to tell me the truth. And I really value people that I know are straight shooters and who are telling me the truth. Because that's so much more valuable. God tells us the truth with perfect wisdom and insight. Even a human being who's a straight shooter and who tells you the truth is only telling you the truth as they see it from their perspective. They're limited in their wisdom and in their insight. God is all-knowing and all-wise and he gives us the truth. He's preserved it for us in this wonderful book. Sixty-six books written over a span of fifteen hundred years by more than 40 different authors in three different languages on three different continents. but preserved for us and then translated very carefully into English for us. So that we can have it. It's a treasure. It's the counsel of God. And David could say, In the night also, my heart instructs me, because David meditated on the Word of God. And he knew the word of God. Many of his Psalms make reference to things that are contained earlier in Scripture from the books of Moses and other places. David knew God's word. We get this counsel. It doesn't come cheaply. I don't think we realize how incredibly blessed we are to live at the time that we live in. Throughout most of church history, most Christians did not have access to the Bible in a language they could understand and that they could have a personal copy of. It took a lot of effort from a lot of people. It took a lot of people laying down their lives so that we could have this book. But God's given it to us. Not only do we have the wisdom of God as our counsel, and then the Holy Spirit, who inspired the Word of God, convicts us of it and helps us understand it and writes it on our heart, but also we have the security. Of verse 8, I've set the Lord always before me. Because he's at my right hand, I shall not be shaken. What does it mean I've set the Lord always before me? That means I keep the Lord always in view. I keep him always in mind. He's before me. Hebrews 12 urges us to run the race of our lives in this way. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight. The sin which clings so closely, let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus. the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Jesus went to the cross for the joy of pleasing his heavenly father and securing the eternal inheritance that the Father had promised to him. And we go with our eyes fixed on Jesus, keeping him always before us. And to have the Lord at our right hand means we have him close to us in the place of honor. The right hand is the place of honor. It's where you had the closest advisor, the closest counselor. He's at our right hand. He's close to us, and we look to him for the counsel that we need. And as he is before us, as he is at our right hand, he is keeping us. and we are secure. I will not be shaken. When do we get shaken? Because we do get shaken. When do we get shaken? When we take our eyes off of Jesus. Or when we put other things at our right hand. We take other counsel more closely to heart. Than the Word of God. That's when we get shaken. But thankfully, our hope doesn't rest in how well we keep things straight. Our hope rests in God keeping us. We get this in verses 9 to 10. Therefore my heart is glad, and my whole being rejoices, my flesh also dwells secure, for you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy one see corruption. For you will not abandon. My heart's glad, my whole being rejoices, my flesh also dwells secure, for you will not abandon. Now here's the thing In Acts 2, Peter preaches the first sermon of the New Testament church age, and he makes it very clear that verse 10 is not about David. Even though David wrote it. Because David was buried, and his body did see corruption. But Psalm 1610 is about Jesus, the greater son of David, whose body did not see corruption, and who was not abandoned, but he was raised from the dead. And so we see that Psalm 16 Just as Psalm 15 is not primarily about us, it's primarily about Jesus. Jesus always kept the Father before him. Jesus always took the counsel of the Holy Spirit. That's why Jesus was never shaken. Jesus delights in his people. Boy, that should bring you some comfort. What brings Jesus delight? You do. Because you're his. And he delights in you. This Psalm 16 is about Jesus. And he's saying that he delights in you. I heard someone say that sometimes they feel like God forgave their sins and loved them enough to adopt them as their child, but since then he just sort of tolerates them. They're kind of a disappointment, but he just sort of puts up with them. If we're honest with it, sometimes we feel that way. Sometimes we feel like I know God set his love on me and God adopted me into his family, but man, he got the short end of the stick there. Because I am a mess. But here's the deal. He knew how messy you were before he adopted you. And he tells you that he delights in you. He calls you an excellent one. He calls you a saint. And he delights in you. Psalm 16 becomes true of us as we are in Christ, just as Psalm 15 becomes true of us as we are in Christ. Christ walked the path that led through death to life. And we follow him on Verse eleven, you make known to me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. Jesus passed through death into eternal life, and he said to us, I am the way, the truth, and the life. I've blazed the trail, I've gone on ahead. Follow me. And if you are in Christ, we walk the path that is Jesus, and it will lead to the Father's house and to the presence of our Savior. In the presence of the Lord, there is fullness of joy. Now, what is more full than fullness? What is more full than fullness? Nothing It's the definition of full. It's fullness. It's the absolute maximum amount of joy. One of Jesus' first miracle. That he did. The wedding at Cana in Galilee, there were six stone water jars that were there for the rites of purification, the ritual rites of purification. They would use these. to cleanse themselves according to the ceremonial law and cleanse all the things they were using according to the ceremonial law. And Jesus deliberately picked out those and he said, fill them with water all the way up to the brim. Fill them to the very top. And then out of that came wine. And the best wine. Wine sufficient for everyone at the festival. It was the fullness. God has in store for us, in his presence, fullness of joy. In this life, we only experience partial and fleeting joys. Even in our best moments, you think about the best moments you've had, right? Was your joy fullness of joy? I mean, there's some pretty awesome moments when you have a newborn child put into your arms for the first time. When you see your bride walking down the aisle and you're like, I can't believe she's marrying me Or when you just get to enjoy the beauty of God's creation, I used to love going on long, strenuous hikes and you get to the top and you get the scenic overlook and you've worked hard for it and it's this beautiful scene before you or you just relax and watch the sunset over a lake or over the mountains Those are great moments. But you know, even the best of those moments is not the fullness of joy. Because we still have pain, we still have sorrow, and we know that they're not going to last. But in the presence of God, there is fullness of joy and pleasures forevermore at his right hand. Pleasure with no pain of regret, no shadow of guilt, holy and radiant pleasure forevermore, bringing the fullness of joy beyond our imagination, beyond the best we've ever experienced in this life, unendingly. Unendingly. Every bit of goodness we're given in this life is a appetizer. It's a foretaste. You take those best moments of your life and you string them all together and what they are is they're like the free samples they give out at Costco. Here's a little bit of a taste. If you want more, you could buy the whole thing, right? We get little tastes. Little tastes. But what's coming It's way, way better than anything you sell at Costco. Because we've all had the experience of wow that that free sample tasted really good and want to buy that thing and take it home and you're like, that's not all that great. That's not what heaven's gonna be like. It is it is as if It's better than we can imagine. And it's forever. Here's what we need to learn, and what God is, I believe, teaching us as we walk with Him through this life. The idols of this world Those who run after another God, their sorrows multiply. The idols of this world always over-promise and under-deliver. If you just get that next promotion, I know you're going to have to put in enough hours that you're not going to see your family for a while, and it's going to be really stressful, but if you just get that next promotion, you will be set. It'll be great And you get that next promotion and you realize there's a reason why this job pays more than the one that I had before If you just get to go on that vacation, boy, wouldn't that be great. You get on that cruise You go down to the Caribbean, you go up to Alaska, whatever. It's going to be awesome. And you go and you're like, yeah, this was pretty cool, but you know, it ends at some point, or, you know, come back. The idols of this age always overpromise and underdeliver. They give us temporary pleasures followed by regret. If we give our hearts to them and chase after them, then we get trapped. Jesus does the exact opposite. Jesus says this. If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross daily, and follow me. For anyone who loves his life will lose it. But if you lose your life, you'll find it in the end. Jesus calls us to a life of suffering, of obedience, of discipleship followed by an eternity of joy that will over-deliver from our wildest expectations, eye has not seen, ear has not heard, nor has it entered into the imagination of man what the Lord has prepared for those who love him. So who are we going to listen to and who are we going to believe? Who are we going to follow? We belong to the Lord by grace. Will we trust that he who adopted us, he who forgave us, will bring us from refreshment and refuge and provision for our need until we're home face to face with him. Pleasure forevermore in the fullness of joy. Let's pray. Father, there is no one like you. For you alone are Almighty. You alone are the great I am, who never changes, and who needs nothing from anyone. You are the one who keeps every promise. You are the one who delivers on every expectation more than we could possibly anticipate. Help us to trust you. Let us not judge you by what our eyes see or by what our emotions feel or by the lies that the world tells us. But let us put all of those things into their place, judging them by your character and by the eternal truth of your word. That we might follow you, trust you, until we are face to face with you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen