Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. From Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. We're in the middle of week 18 of the Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. We're working through them together. Uh question by question through this Heidelberg Catechism written in 1563. It's a wonderful Reformation era resource. It's been a blessing to the church, really all over the world for nearly 500 years. It's been translated into so many different languages And our goal here is that we are in the pursuit of gospel comfort. What is your only comfort in life and in death? Question one opens by asking. And the gospel really is the answer to that. Our only comfort in life and in death is that we do not belong to ourselves, but we belong to our faithful Savior. Jesus Christ, both in life and in death, in body and soul. And so this is this is our comfort, this is our hope. And we're pursuing that in three steps as we go from guilt through grace to gratitude. Right now we're in the section uh of grace and we're focusing in particular on the apostles creed working our way through what it is that we believe and why it is that we have to believe what we believe in order to get the comfort that we're seeking from God. And so we're working through the doctrine that's outlined the the the principles, the beliefs, the tenets of the Christian faith that are outlined for us in the Apostles' Creed. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we come to question 51 of the Heidelberg Catechism today. Father, thank you for this catechism. Thank you for the gift that it's been to your church for nearly 500 years. Thank you for the blessing it's been to us this year as we've been working through it question by question. As we come today to question 51 and we think about the reality that Christ is seated at your right hand and the hope and the benefit that we draw from Christ's session and intercession for us. We pray that you would bless our time together and that you would enrich us by your gospel for your glory in our lives in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're at question 51. So in that section of the Apostles' Creed, we're really dealing with the ascension of Christ to heaven and his session at the right hand of the Father. So he ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. That's where we are. in the Apostles' Creed. And last time we looked at question fifty. Why is it added and sits at the right hand of God? And the answer is that Christ ascended into heaven to manifest himself there as head of his church, through whom the Father governs all things. Well, the question that flows from that is, how does the glory of Christ our head benefit us? What gospel comfort, again, do we draw from Christ our Head being seated at the right hand of God? And the answer is twofold. First, by his Holy Spirit, he pours out gifts upon us, his members. And second, by his power, he defends and preserves us against all enemies. So, we see in Scripture, the ascension of Christ and his sitting at right hand of God the Father leads to the pouring out of the Holy Spirit, specifically at the day of Pentecost. And at the day of Pentecost, when Peter gets up and preaches, this is what he says, being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit He has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. So on the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit was poured out. He was given to the church. to abide with and be with the church. There is, of course the Holy Spirit was active in the Old Testament, in the Old Covenant. Of course the Holy Spirit came upon and empowered people, particularly in the anointed offices of prophet, priest, and king. They served by the anointing of the Holy Spirit, symbolized in being anointed with oil for that office. But now we have a universal priesthood of all believers. We are all prophets, priests, and kings. Under our great prophet, priest, and king, we all have the Holy Spirit. We all have the Holy Spirit who dwells in us throughout our Christian lives and he helped us to walk in obedience and in faith. And Peter says at Pentecost That it's because Christ is exalted to the right hand of God, because he sits at the right hand of God, he's received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit and poured out His Holy Spirit on His church to convict us, to comfort us, to lead us, and to help us understand His Word and walk in His ways. One of the ways the Holy Spirit does that, one of the ways that Christ does that through his Holy Spirit is by the gifts that he gives to the church. Ephesians 4, the Apostle Paul describes this. He says, But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, what does it mean but that he had also descended into the lower regions, the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he gave The apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry for building up the body of Christ. So we look back at our catechism question. The first thing that Christ does is he pours out heavenly gifts upon us, his members. That's how the glory of Christ benefits us. So here we have this description. He gives gifts. He gives grace to each one of us, first of all. So every believer has been given a gracious gift by Christ for serving the church, for building up the church. But in particular, he also gave gifted men who serve in particular offices. Now, apostles and prophets They belong to the foundation of the church. You see that in Ephesians 2. 20. The foundation of the church was laid in the apostles and prophets with Christ Jesus being the cornerstone. So that was in an apostolic age where fresh revelation was needed to explain the gospel and help us to apply it, that was given in that foundational era of the church. Today, the ongoing gifts, the continuing gift offices are evangelists and shepherd teachers. Notice there's not the shepherds and the teachers, it's the shepherds and teachers. which is really, I think, referring to the elders in the church. The elders are shepherds, and there are teachers among those elders as well. All elders, of course, teach, but some are given in a particular way to teaching, as Paul says. to Timothy. So here we have the gifts of Christ by his Holy Spirit. He gifts every believer with spiritual gifts. service, speaking, mercy, prayer, generosity, administration. There's lots of different gifts that are given. But he gives also particular men who give us the Word of God. That's really the offices here are highlighted that the apostles and prophets gave us the New Testament. The evangelists take the word of God to the unreached, and shepherds and teachers shepherd the flock of God with the Word of God. So that's what Christ does in his ascension. And Christ speaks of this in his Good Shepherd discourse in John chapter 10, when he says, My sheep hear my voice. And I know them, and they follow me. Now, how do we hear the voice of the Good Shepherd? How do we know him and follow him? Well, it's through his word. And particularly We most of us came to know him as we heard his word from an evangelist or a shepherd teacher, an elder, a pastor. Who brought the Word of God to us, and we recognized the voice of a Savior and our Savior, and we followed Him. And then Jesus says, I give them eternal life. And they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all. And no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. I think this is moving us into that second. aspect of the glory of Christ benefiting us from question fifty one. That is by his power he defends and preserves us against all enemies. So not only does he lead us by his Holy Spirit through his word But he also holds us and protects us from all of our enemies so that no one can snatch us out of his hand. That is great, great comfort. It's one of my favorite passages. in all the New Testament that we have this eternal life and no one can snatch us out of the hand of Jesus. We've got one more from one of my favorite passages to another. We're going to go to Romans 8. Again, Christ in glory as our head. How does that benefit us? Here's the protection that we need and we receive through the glory of Christ. Romans 8, 34 and 35. And then 38 and 39. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? For I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. That is good news. Christ interceding for us at the right hand of the Father. means nothing's going to separate us from his love. Because nothing can overcome his prayers for us. Nothing can overcome his advocacy for us. Neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers. Nothing in all of creation. We'll be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Now I know some people hear this and they say, Well, what if I just walk away? Come on, take these two passages together and think. If Jesus is holding you in his hand, if Jesus is interceding for you, are you going to walk away? No. You're going to be kept by his power, you're going to be kept by his love, and you're going to keep following his voice until you are face to face with him. So, again, back to our catechism question. How does the glory of Christ our head benefit us? First, by his Holy Spirit, he pours out heavenly gifts upon us, his members. Second, by his power, he defends and preserves us against all enemies. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for such a savior. Lord Jesus, thank you that you intercede for us. powerfully as King of Glory, as the Exalted One, far above all earthly powers. Thank you that you give us gifts that we can exercise for the good of your church and for the glory of your name, and thank you that you keep us and protect us from all of your and our enemies. We look to you. We love you. We need you. And we pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. As always, we're going to respond to God's word by singing praises together. The church is one foundation. Jesus Christ her Lord. She is his creation by water and a word from heaven. He came inside her to be his holy price with his own bloody budget and for her life. Elect from every nation and one more charge to God. One Lord, one faith, one word, one holy name she less her takes one holy food. And draw one hope she presses with every green and dude, though with the corn from one. This world sees her oppressed. My scarce and tremendous slander by eras distress. It seems they watch our keeping their cycles upon And so the night of weeping shall be the The morning trimulation and the We wait for confirmation and peace forever to make the war. We know our blood and the great church victoria shall be the church that restrict. Union with God the free in mind And mistakes which come union with those whose rest is