Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest. Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome back to Ascension Week. We're wrapping it up today. This is the final question that goes with Lord's Day 18, and it's the final one that deals with the Ascension before we move on to the next line of the Apostles Creed. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gift of life that we have in your Son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you that he has ascended on high and that he represents us before your throne as our living and loving Savior. Teach us now more about him we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So here we are in the Heidelberg Catechism, and we began this section on the ascension actually last week when we began with question 46. What do you confess when you say he ascended into heaven? And the answer is that Christ, before the eyes of his disciples, was taken up. from the earth into heaven, and that he is there for our benefit until he comes again to judge the living and the dead. So 47 asks, Is Christ then not with us until the end of the world, as he has promised us? This is a reference to the Great Commission where Jesus says, Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. The answer is that Christ is true man and true God. With respect to his human nature, he is no longer on earth. But with respect to his divinity, that is his godhood His majesty, that is his reign as king, his grace, and his spirit, he is never absent from us. So Jesus is both at the right hand of God the Father and present with us in different ways. His human nature at the right hand of the God the Father, His divine nature, His Majesty, His grace and Spirit, never absent from us. This leads to question 48. But are the two natures in Christ not separated from each other if his human nature is not present wherever his divinity is? Answer is not at all. In other words, the two natures of Christ are not at all separated from each other, and here's why. For his divinity has no limits and is present everywhere. So it must follow that his divinity is indeed beyond the human nature he has taken on, and nevertheless is within this human nature and remains personally united with it So really 47 and 48 we're dealing with some really dense Christology, really important. Christology, our knowledge of Christ and his two natures, very important. Question 49 brings us back to gospel comfort application. That is the question, how does Christ's ascension into heaven benefit us? So where's our gospel comfort from his ascension? And we get three things here. First, he is our advocate in heaven before the Father. Second, we have our flesh in heaven as a sure pledge that he, our head, will also take us, his members, up to himself. And then third, He sends us his Spirit as a counterpledge, by whose power we seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God, and not the things that are on earth So we have an advocate with the Father. We have our flesh, a true human being, in heaven as a sure pledge. And then from there he sends his spirit as a counterpledge by whose power we seek the things that are above. So let's go ahead and walk through some scripture that supports this wonderful truth and comfort. Romans 8. 34. You always know every few days at least we're going to come back to Romans 8 because it's just so wonderful. Romans 8. 34. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died, more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. We have an advocate with the Father. We have an intercessor, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who died and rose again and is interceding for us. John writes about this in 1 John 2. 1. My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ. the righteous. See, we have this advocate, Jesus Christ, the righteous man, the righteous one. He represents us. He's the head of a new humanity. By the way, he can't be the head of a new humanity if he's not a true human being. And he is. He can't be the mediator between God and man unless he's the man Christ Jesus, which he is. So that's what we get. Now, Jesus in John 17, 24, in praying for us, says, Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. And this goes on with this second part of our benefit from the ascension of Christ, we have our flesh in heaven as a sure pledge that He our He will also take us, his members, up to himself. And this is what Jesus is saying. These are the ones, Father, whom you've given to me. He's our head, we're his body. And I want them to be with me where I am, to see my glory that you've given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world. That is going to be a day, isn't it? That Jesus prayed for that. The Father's going to answer that. We're going to be there. We're going to see his glory. That's gonna be wow, that's gonna be the day of all days. And we'll never want it to end. And the great thing is it never will end. And so how wonderful that will be. Colossians 3, 1-4, then, gives us the third part of what we benefit from the ascension of Christ, and that is the Spirit who helps us to set our minds on things above, because that's where Christ is. Colossians 3 1-4 If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God, set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth for you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory So we set our hearts, we set our minds on heaven, because that's where Jesus is right now. He's seated at the right hand of God. And he when he comes, when he appears in glory, we also will appear with him in glory. And that is the third and final um benefit that we get from the ascension of Christ. He sends us his Spirit as a counterpledge by whose power we seek the things that are above where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God, and not the things that are on earth. Amen. Let's walk in the Spirit today. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, you came from heaven to earth to save us. from our sin and from death and from separation from God forever. You became one of us. You became truly human, tempted in every way, just as we are. And yet without sin. And now you are glorified in your humanity, and the same human nature that you have now in glory is what we will have when we are in glory. When you appear, we will appear with you in glory. We will see your glory. We will share in your glory. That is beyond our comprehension, Lord Jesus. But we know it's wonderful beyond words, and we're so thankful and we're so eager for that day. So we pray, come quickly, Lord Jesus. And until that day, let us walk by the Spirit and set our minds on things above. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much again for joining me for these Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. As always, let's respond to the Lord's truth with praise. Shake off my guilty of wheat with life. In my shortest dead, the border of all my stories dead. By me with seek comedy. They for extra pressures make strongly for me for kids in the whole for beauty not. For giving all the things I'm getting some state It is the voice. Uh press and spirit answers to God is feeling answers to God.