Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. We are going over the Apostles' Creed in this very important section of the Heidelberg Catechism. What's the Heidelberg Catechism? Well, it's a series of questions and answers that teaches us gospel doctrine in order to bring us gospel comfort. It's taking us on a journey through the Bible, through the essence of what we believe, from guilt through grace to gratitude. And we're in the Apostles' Creed, which is of course that essential summary of the Christian faith that Christians all over the world have been confessing together for centuries. And today we kind of turn a corner. We've been spending a lot of time in the humiliation of Christ, in the descent of Christ And last time we got to the bottom of that. He descended into hell. Today we're going to start with the glorification of Christ, the exaltation of Christ. So let's pray together and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for being faithful. Thank you for being with us. Thank you for all that you've been teaching us through the Heidelberg Catechism and through your word. The Heidelberg Catechism points us back to your word so we can see what your word tells us about your son and about the salvation that we have in him. Would you please be our teacher today as we come to question 45 of the Heidelberg Catechism and the resurrection of Jesus, that hope that is anchored in his life? We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Well, we are in the section of the uh Heidelberg Catechism that deals with the Apostles' Creed, so let's just review that Question 23 it was that asks, what are these articles? That is the articles of the Christian faith. And there are 12 of them laid out in the Apostles' Creed. three sections. So what are these articles? I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead and buried, he descended into hell. On the third day he arose from the dead, he ascended into heaven, and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. Amen. Well today we're actually on question 45, which is going to be the fifth article on the third day he arose from the dead. But first Let's just review what we learned about last time in question 44. Why is there added he descended into hell? And the answer, this is a great gospel comfort answer, in my greatest sorrows and temptations. I may be assured and comforted that my Lord Jesus Christ, by his unspeakable anguish, pain, terror, and agony, which he endured throughout all his sufferings, but especially on the cross, has delivered me from the anguish and torment of hell. Jesus took all of that anguish, all of that pain, all of that terror, all of that agony upon himself, so that we will never experience it. And that is good news. Question 45 then. How does Christ's resurrection benefit us? Answer: First, by his resurrection he has overcome death, so that he could make us share in the righteousness which he had obtained for us by his death. Second, By his power, we too are raised up to a new life. Third, Christ's resurrection is to us a sure pledge of our glorious resurrection. So we have three distinct benefits of the resurrection of Christ here. First is, because he's alive, he's a living Savior, he's overcome death, we can share in the righteousness that he obtained for us by his death. If he's dead, we can't really share in that because he's not alive to share it with us. He's alive to share it with us. Secondly, we are raised to a new life spiritually in this life. And then third, We have a sure pledge of our glorious resurrection. Where does the Bible teach us these truths? Well, let's begin in Romans 4. 25. Christ was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification He was delivered up. He was crucified. He was condemned for our trespasses, for our sins, but then raised for our justification, because to be justified, we're justified by faith. In Jesus Christ. Why are we justified by faith in Jesus Christ? Because faith unites us to Christ. We have union with Christ by faith. But if Christ is dead and in the grave, we can't have union with him. So he's raised for our justification so that he can be the living, eternally alive, righteousness of God. That we can share it. We can share in him by faith in our union with Christ 1 Corinthians 15, verses 16 to 20 says this about how essential Christ's resurrection is for us to be justified. For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile, and you are still in your sins. Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in Christ we have hope in this life only, we are of all people most to be pitied. But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. So if there's no resurrection of Jesus Our faith is futile, empty, useless. You're still in your sins because you don't have a living Savior who is the living righteousness and salvation. You have a dead salvation Which doesn't save anybody. Resurrection is absolutely essential. 1 Peter 1, 3 to 5. This is getting us to the second part of our answer. that we are we are raised to newness of life because of Christ's resurrection. 1 Peter 1, 3 to 5. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. So how is it that we are born again to a living hope? How is it that we are raised in our spirits from being dead in our sins and dead to God and without God and without hope in the world? How is it that we are born again to a living hope? It is through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. His life gives us life. Life now and life to come for eternity. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 4 to 6 puts it this way. But God being rich in mercy, Because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. There's that the resurrection of Jesus. is our life as well. The exaltation of Jesus to the right hand of the Father is our exaltation to the right hand of God as well. I think sometimes within our our circles we we focus a lot on the work that Jesus did on the cross. What did Jesus do to save you? He died on the cross for my sins. And that's absolutely true. But we have to finish the story. Because if all Jesus did to save us is die on the cross for our sins, and he remained dead. We have a dead Savior. We don't have a living hope. We can't have life in him because he's not alive. And we can't have the assurance of future eternal resurrection life because he doesn't have eternal resurrection life. It is absolutely vital that Christ was raised from the dead for us. Romans 8. 11 says this. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. This is that third part. that we are going to have a future resurrection because Jesus lives. The same Holy Spirit who raised Jesus from the dead lives in us. And just as he raised Jesus from the dead, so also he will raise us from the dead. When Jesus comes again at the last trumpet, at the at the sound At the shout of the archangel and the descent of Christ to judge, we will be raised. Our last verse for today, First Corinthians 15, 20 and 21. But in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep, for as by a man came death. By a man has come also the resurrection from the dead. So earlier we saw in First Corinthians how how terrible it would be if we didn't have any hope. Right? But he has been raised from the dead. He has been raised from the dead. Just as Adam brought death into the world, Jesus brings life into the world. So that's what we get from the resurrection of Jesus. At least three things. There's probably more. But I love how the catechism focuses on what's most vital, what's most clearly biblical, and what's most comforting to us. So how does Christ's resurrection benefit us? First, by his resurrection, he has overcome death. so that he could make us share in his righteousness, which he had obtained for us by his death. Second, by his power we too are raised. to a new life. And third, Christ's resurrection is to us a sure pledge of our glorious resurrection. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are so great. Lord Jesus, you have overcome death forever For us, Holy Spirit, you have united us to Christ by faith, and you too will raise us from the dead, eternally alive, just as Christ is eternally alive when Jesus comes again. We thank you. For this living hope, we thank you for this imperishable and unshakable salvation that is ours through our living Savior, Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. Amen. Glorious good news from God's Word today. Let's respond to it by singing together, Christ the Lord is risen today. Стал Lord isn't today. Suns are in an angel say. Praise your joy, triumph thy. Where that is now thy style. Once he died, so I better be over. The sweet teeth work in the house. We now Christ and let our We are exulting. I can we Across the great skies.