Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church We've come now to the end of week 37, and we're looking at John 16, verses 5 to 15. Jesus says, an unusual thing here in verse 7, it is to your advantage that I go away. So we're going to be asking the question, how is it to our advantage that Jesus has gone away from this world? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. For sending your Son Jesus into the world. Lord Jesus, thank you for speaking the truth in love and for living a life of love and for offering yourself in our place on the cross and for bringing in salvation. Holy Spirit, teach us from your word today, that we might know Jesus and trust and follow him more. We pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. John 16, 5-15. I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you, but now I am going to him who sent me. And none of you asks me, where are you going? But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me, concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer, concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of Truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak of his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me. For he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you. That's John 16, 5 to 15. Wouldn't it be amazing to just be able to walk and talk with Jesus? One of my favorite passages in the Bible is at the end of the Gospel of Luke, when Jesus is walking with the two disciples on the road to Emmaus after the resurrection, and he engages them. in a couple of hours of Bible study as he's showing to them from Moses and all the prophets all the things concerning himself. And I just think, man, I wish I could be there. Walking with Jesus, getting that teaching from him. Wouldn't it be great to have eaten the bread that was miraculously multiplied by Jesus? It would be, right? We all long for that. I mean I've been to Israel twice, and you go to Israel and you get to walk where Jesus walked and stand where Jesus stood and and even that is Just such a powerful emotional experience. And it stirs up within us this longing to be with the Lord. And yet Jesus said to his disciples who were with him for three, three and a half years, it is to your advantage that I go away. Now they were full of sorrow at the thought of losing their teacher. How was it to their advantage that Jesus would go away? Well, he tells them right away, it's to your advantage that I go away for, or because, if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. So the Holy Spirit being with us. is so much better than having Jesus in the flesh with us. Well, how is that? Well you think about it on a simple level, Jesus as a man could only be in one place at one time. So, Jesus, if he were in the world today, he could not be with Forest Hill Presbyterian Church when we gather for worship. on Sunday morning and also be with a faithful Bible preaching church in Germany or in Iran or in Japan or in Australia all at the same time, right? Or even within our own within our own area. There's There's lots of churches that are faithfully worshiping Jesus and faithfully proclaiming his word. If he was here in the flesh, he couldn't be in every single one all at the same time. But the Holy Spirit, he lives in every believer. But he also has power to work on the inside of us in a way that Jesus in his human nature was not able to do. First of all, the Holy Spirit is able to convict the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. That's what Jesus tells us the first thing here. When he comes Verse 8, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment, concerning sin because they do not believe in me, concerning righteousness because I go to the Father, and you see me no longer, concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. Jesus is our only salvation from sin. Jesus is the only perfect embodiment of righteousness. And Jesus is the one who has already judged. the ruler of this world and who is coming again to judge the living and the dead. Only the Holy Spirit can get inside someone and bring conviction, which is why whenever we're sharing the gospel with anyone, Prayer is the most important thing because the Holy Spirit's the one who has to do that internal convicting work. Second of all, the Holy Spirit guides us into all truth. Jesus said, I've said many things to you. I still have many more things to say to you. You can't bear them right now. But the Spirit of truth, when he comes, he will guide you into all the truth. Think about how the disciples were absolutely transformed by the sending of the Holy Spirit. Peter, read Acts 2. He gives this bold, faithful sermon. From the Old Testament about Jesus. Now, certainly Jesus had taught them those things while he was with them, but the Holy Spirit brings it to mind and teaches them the truth and then the whole oh the whole New Testament, all 26 books of the New Testament are inspired by the Holy Spirit, who then helps us to understand. Even when we gather for things like this. to study the word. It's the Holy Spirit who comes and says, here, here's the truth. I'm guiding you into all the truth. And the third We've already talked about it. The Holy Spirit glorifies the Father. He takes what is Jesus' and gives it to us internally and universally. He takes all the blessings and benefits of Jesus, all that is mine, right? All the Father has is mine. The Holy Spirit takes what is mine and declares it to you. That's what Jesus says. The blessings, the benefits, perfect righteousness, the righteousness of God given to us in the gospel, complete forgiveness of all of our sins, the atonement. the adoption as sons, the place in God's family, being one with God in our souls. being united to Christ, body and soul, the promise of resurrection, of eternal life, all of this, how does it become ours? How does it get inside of us? By the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit does this universally, does this around the world for all of God's people. How do we get from, you know, when Jesus left there were twelve disciples, there were about 150 people gathered in the upper room, there were some other scattered disciples around. Uh but there were maybe in the hundreds of people who knew about Jesus and were following Jesus. Pentecost comes 3,000. Within a short period of time, 5,000. By the time the apostles died at the end of the Apostolic Age, there were churches all over the Roman world with hundreds of thousands of believers. Today, there are millions and millions of believers in every country of the world. Wow. How does that happen? It's the work of the Holy Spirit. Jesus couldn't accomplish that with an earthly ministry that was just extended forever. He had to go to the Father and send the Spirit. So let's be thankful for the Holy Spirit. Let's do the work of the Holy Spirit by glorifying Jesus, by proclaiming Him, and trusting the Holy Spirit to work in the hearts, our own hearts to lead us into the truth, and in the hearts of those who hear the gospel from us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son into this world. We would have nothing if Jesus had not come and earned it all for us. But thank you also for sending the Holy Spirit, who makes it all ours, who helps us understand it, who helps us grow in what Jesus has done and in our relationship with Jesus, and who gives us courage and boldness and effectiveness. In sharing the gospel with others. Be glorified in us. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me as we wrapped up another week together in the Gospels. We've got a few more left as we finish up the Gospel of John. Hope you can continue to join me for those. I hope you have a wonderful weekend. I hope you worship with God's people on the Lord's Day. Have a blessed day in the Lord