Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church So glad you're with us here. We're in our 26th week together in the Gospels, and we are coming to Luke 13 today, looking at the first half of the chapter, verses 1 to 21, and asking Do we think we are better than anyone else? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Please humble us and teach us today Let us see more of the truth about ourselves and our need for our Savior and the glories of our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Luke 13, 1-21. There were some present at that very time who told him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And he answered them, Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans because they suffered in this way? No, I tell you, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Or those eighteen on whom the Tower of Siloam fell and killed them Do you think they were worse offenders than all the others who lived in Jerusalem? No, I tell you, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish And he told this parable. A man who had a fig tree, a man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it and found none And he said to the vine dresser, Look, for three years now I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it down. Why should it use up the ground And he answered him, Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put on manure. Then, if it should bear fruit next year, well and good, but if not, you can cut it down. Now, he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, and behold, there was a woman who had a disabling spirit for eighteen years. She was bent over and could not fully straighten herself. When Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, Woman, you are freed from your disability. And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and she glorified God. But the ruler of the synagogue, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the people, There are six days in which work ought to be done. Come on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day. Then the Lord answered him, You hypocrites Does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the manger and lead it away to water it And ought not this woman, a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan bound for eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day? As he said these things, all his adversaries were put to shame, and all the people rejoiced at all the glorious things that were done by him He said, therefore, what is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it? It is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his garden, and it grew and became a tree, and all the birds of the air made nests in its branches And again he said, To what shall I compare the kingdom of God? It is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, until it was all leavened. Do we think we are better than anyone else? The human capacity for comparing ourselves to others to inflate our own sense of self-righteousness is staggering If you look hard enough, you can always find someone else who is worse or worse off than you, seemingly, and so you can somehow justify yourself in comparison to another person. This capacity of comparison and self-justification is so strong that you can even find it in maximum security prisons, people serving serious time behind bars. for felony offenses can still look down on others around them who are lower criminals than they are. In Jesus' day, many religious people believed that if something really terrible happened to you, it was because God was judging you for some gross hidden sin. Jesus directly confronted this false thinking in an unusual but powerfully effective way, rather than simply saying These people were no worse than anyone else. They were just victims of injustice or bad circumstances. Jesus turns the table on his audience and tells them that these four people were no worse sinners than anyone else and Unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Jesus wasn't trying to be mean. No, he was getting to the heart of the problem and exposing the deepest needs of his audience. Self-righteous religious people are often in the greatest danger of all because they don't think they need to repent. Jesus follows this teaching with a parable about an unfruitful fig tree. The point of this parable is that God is looking for the fruit of repentance in the lives of people. He will not wait forever Jesus then confronts one of the central areas where God's people needed to repent. Valuing legalistic rule keeping over human lives. A woman had a dis disabling spirit for 18 years when Jesus freed her, the religious leaders were more concerned about what day of the week it was than about this poor woman's life and freedom. Even more telling, Jesus exposes the fact that these religious leaders have no problem taking care of their own livestock on the Sabbath day. You hypocrites, does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the manger and lead it away to water it? And ought not this woman, a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan bound for eighteen years be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day? Jesus so clearly and consistently confronted religious hypocrisy, and we all need to hear his rebuke Do we think we are better than other people? Do we think we can repent and believe without showing any fruit of repentance in our lives? Have we been valuing rules over compassion? Are we treasuring our possessions more than people? Jesus calls us to his kingdom, to redemption, to real life. But his call is not soft or easy. He will confront every shred of self-righteousness and legalism. until we truly come under the reign of his grace in our lives. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 123 as we continue to work our way through the Psalms of Ascents. To you I lift up my eyes. O you who are enthroned in the heavens, behold, as the eye of servants look to the hand of their master, as the eye of a maidservant to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes look. to the Lord our God, till he has mercy on us. Have mercy upon us, O Lord. Have mercy upon us, for we have had more than enough of contempt Our soul has had more than enough of the scorn of those who are at ease, of the contempt of the proud. What a perfect psalm to follow today's gospel passage in Luke 13. Pray. Oh Heavenly Father, we are your servants by your grace. We look to you, to our Master, to have mercy on us. We can be proud. We can be self-righteous. We can be full of the contempt of the proud in our own hearts, O Father. Please have mercy on us. Change our hearts. Deepen our dependence upon Christ. Deepen our gratitude for Christ. And deepen our compassion toward others. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Have a blessed day in the Lord.