Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to our third day of our 18th week together, as we are in Mark chapter 12 now. Jesus has entered into Jerusalem, he has cursed the fig tree, he has cleansed the temple, and now He is telling some parables. And today as we look at verses 1 to 27, we're asking, why is flattery so dangerous and how should we respond to it? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and for your Son. Please draw our hearts closer to Jesus as we spend time in your word this morning. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen Mark 12, 1 to 27. And he began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard and put a fence around it. and dug a pit for the wine press and built a tower and west it to tenants and went into another country. When the season came He sent a servant to the tenants to get from them some of the fruit of the vineyard, and they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed Again he sent to them another servant, and they struck him on the head and treated him shamefully. And he sent another, and him they killed. And so with many others, some they beat, and some they killed. He had still one other, a beloved son. Finally he sent him to them, saying, They will respect my son. But those tenants said to one another, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours. And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard. What will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the tenants. and give the vineyard to others. Have you not read this scripture? The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it was marvelous in our eyes. And they were seeking to arrest him, but feared the people, for they perceived that he had told this parable against them. So they left him and went away And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and some of the Herodians to trap him in his talk. And they came to him and said, Teacher, we know that you are true and do not care about anyone's opinion, for you are not swayed by appearances, but truly teach the way of God. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Should we pay them, or should we not? But knowing their hypocrisy, he said to them, Why put me to the test? Bring me a denarius and let me look at it. And they brought one. And he said to them, Whose likeness and inscription is this? They said to him, Caesar's. Jesus said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's, and they marveled at him. And Sadducees came to him, who say there is no resurrection, and they asked him a question, saying, Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife, but leaves no child The man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. There were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and when he died, left no offspring. The second took her and died, left no offspring. The third likewise And the seven left no offspring. Last of all the woman died in the resurrection. When they rise again, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife. Jesus said to them, Is this not the reason you are wrong, because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God? For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry. nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. And as for the dead being raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the bush, how God spoke to him, saying, I am the God of Abraham And the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob, he is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You are quite wrong. In Pilgrim's Progress, the shepherds on the delectable mountains give Christian and hopeful two pieces of advice. Beware the flatterer, and do not sleep on the enchanted ground Sadly, these two pilgrims forgot this advice when they were confronted by the flatterer, and they ended up ensnared in a trap. In today's passage, some Pharisees and Herodians are trying to snare Jesus in a trap, and they built their trap with flattery If these men really believed that Jesus truly taught the way of God, they would sit at his feet to listen and learn and not come to set a trap for him. Jesus was too wise for them, of course, and we'll take a look at his response in a minute. But flattery is something we all need to beware. We are so quick to listen to flattery because of our pride and insecurity. We want people to like us, and we're not sure if they do or not, so flattery has a real attraction and a snare for us. Jesus was humble and secure, so flattery was not a baited trap for him. People who flatter are usually trying to get something from us or trap us. We walk into their clutches because we want to keep their good opinion. Jesus responded to this flattery, as we all should. He avoided the trap by speaking the truth clearly and carefully. The Pharisees knew that if Jesus advocated paying taxes to Rome, it would get him in trouble with the people who resented Roman taxes The Herodians knew that if Jesus told the people not to pay their taxes, this would get him in trouble with the Romans. It seemed clear that Jesus would be in trouble whichever answer he gave. So Jesus stepped back from the immediate question to clarify the context. The Romans coined and issued their own currency. They asked for payment back from what they had distributed. Jesus knew that issues of politics and taxation were not of direct importance to the kingdom of God. That is why he said, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. Ultimately, of course, all things belong to God. God is the Lord and ruler of all things This means that he establishes rulers and he overthrows those same rulers. But Jesus would not be trapped in a distraction Nor did he want his kingdom identified with Rome or with the anti-Roman forces. His reign is so much bigger than our petty political squabbles. True wisdom comes for us when we follow after him and learn to think and see the world as he does. Let's turn now to Psalm 89. Psalm 89 is a masculine of Ethan the Azrahite. I will sing of the steadfast love of the Lord forever. With my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations. For I said, steadfast love will be built up forever. In the heavens you will establish your faithfulness You have said, I have made a covenant with my chosen one. I have sworn to David my servant, I will establish your offspring forever and build your throne for all generations. Let the heavens praise your wonders, O Lord, your faithfulness in the assembly of the Holy Ones. For who in the skies can be compared to the Lord? Who among the heavenly beings is like the Lord, a God greatly to be feared in the counsel of the holy ones, and awesome above all who are around him? O Lord God of hosts, who is mighty as you are, O Lord, with your faithfulness all around you? You rule the raging of the sea. When its waves rise, you still them. You crushed Rahab like a carcass. You scattered your enemies with your mighty arm. The heavens are yours. The earth also is yours. The world and all that is in it. You have founded them The North and the South, you have created them. Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name. You have a mighty arm. Strong is your hand. High your right hand. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Steadfast love and faithfulness go before you. Blessed. are the people who know the festal shout, who walk, O Lord, in the light of your face, who exalt in your name all the day, and in your righteousness are exalted. For you are the glory of their strength. By your favor our horn is exalted, for our shield belongs to the Lord. our King to the Holy One of Israel. Of old you spoke in a vision to your godly one, and said, I have granted help to one who is mighty, I have exalted one chosen from the people, I have found David my servant. With my holy oil I have anointed him, so that my hand shall be established with him, his arm also shall strengthen him The enemy shall not outwit him, the wicked shall not humble him, I will crush his foes before him and strike down those who hate him. My faithfulness and my steadfast love shall be with him, and in my name. shall his horn be exalted. I will set his hand on the sea and his right hand on the rivers. He shall cry to me, You are my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation, and I will make him the firstborn the highest of the kings of the earth, my steadfast love I will keep for him for ever, and my covenant will stand firm for him. I will establish his offspring for ever, and his throne as the days of the heavens. If his children forsake my law, and do not walk according to my rules, if they violate my statutes and do not keep my commandments, then I will punish their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes, but I will not remove from him my steadfast love, or be false to my faithfulness. I will not violate my covenant, nor order the word that went forth from my lips. Once for all, I have sworn by my holiness, I will not lie to David. His offspring shall endure forever. his throne as long as the sun before me, like the moon it shall be established forever, a faithful witness in the skies. But now you have cast off and rejected You are full of wrath against your anointed. You have renounced the covenant with your servant. You have defiled his crown in the dust. You have breached all his walls. You have laid his stronghold in ruins. All who pass by plunder him. He has become the scorn of his neighbors. You have exalted the right hand of his foes. You have made all his enemies rejoice. You have turned back the edge of his sword, and you have not made him stand in battle You have made his splendor to cease and cast his throne to the ground. You've cut short the days of his youth. You've covered him with shame. How long, O Lord, will you hide yourself forever? How long will your wrath burn like fire? Remember how short my time is. For what vanity you have created all the children of man. What man can live and never see death? Who can deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Lord, where is your steadfast love of old, which by your faithfulness you swore to David? Remember, O Lord, how your servants are mocked. And how I bear in my heart the insults of all the many nations with which your enemies mock, O Lord, with which they mock the footsteps of your anointed. Blessed be the Lord forever. Amen and amen. Jesus is the answer to Psalm 89. I've done teaching on Psalm 89. I encourage you to go watch that. We're not going to get into it right now, but The covenant promises that were made to David, as well as the judgment that God poured out on his people, all of that is answered by Jesus, who lives forever and will never see death and who delivers our souls from the power of the grave and who reigns forevermore. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you are King of kings and Lord of Lords. You have such wisdom such perfect glory. You could not be tripped up by the traps of the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Herodians. You answered them with such skill and wisdom. Because you are wisdom. And you conquered sin and death. And you live and reign forever. May we trust you. May we follow you. May we rejoice in you. May we see that all the promises of God are yes in you. In your name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through these Gospels. Hope it's been a blessing to you. Hope you can join us again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.