Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill President. Our fourth day of the 18th week together brings us to the second half of Mark 12. In Mark 12, 28 to 44, we're going to be asking this question. How can our Bible reading help us develop a more biblical worldview? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. Your word is living and active. Your word is given to us to transform our minds. We have to have our minds transformed. by your word, if we are to see your world as you see it. So we pray that you would speak to us through your word this morning and write it on our hearts and make us more like Jesus, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Mark chapter 12, verse 28. And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he answered them well, asked him, Which commandment is the most important of all? Jesus answered, The most important is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength. The second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. And the scribe said to him, You are right, teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and there is no other besides him. And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the strength, and to love one's neighbor as oneself, is much more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And after that no one dared to ask him any more questions. And as Jesus taught in the temple, he said, How can the scribes say that the Christ is the Son of David? David himself in the Holy Spirit declared, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool under your feet. David himself calls him Lord, so how is he his son? And the great throng heard him gladly. And in his teaching he said, Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and like greetings in the marketplaces, and have the best seats in the synagogues, and the places of honor at feasts. who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers, they will receive the greater condemnation. And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the people putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large sums, and a poor widow came. and put in two small copper coins, which make a penny. And he called his disciples to him and said to them, Truly I say to you This poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the offering box, for they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty, has put in everything she had, all she had to live on. One of the benefits of reading through whole sections of the Bible and not just picking out selected verses is that we get a better understanding of the connections between different verses, teachings, and ideas that we had thought of as separate In joining these pieces together into an integrated whole, we begin to develop a more complete biblical worldview. One way we can learn to stitch together these pieces as we read is by asking questions as we go in looking for the answers. So, as we ask questions, we understand the answers, we come to think as God thinks and wants us to think. For example, in today's passage, why are loving God and loving others the most important commandments? Why was this scribe not far from the kingdom of God? What was he still missing? What is hypocrisy and how is it related to God's most important commandments? And what does real sincerity in loving God look like? In today's passage, we continue to see some of Jesus' final public interactions with religious leaders in Jerusalem before his crucifixion The leaders have been asking him questions to test him, and he had passed every test. Now, a final question comes from a scribe. He asks which commandment is the most important of all. This is a much more important and sincere question than the previous ones about taxes and marriage and the resurrection. Jesus answers this scribe clearly and perfectly, of course. He says that loving God with all we are, and loving our neighbor as ourselves, are the most important commandments. The scribe agrees sincerely, and Jesus tells him he is not far from the kingdom of God. So why are these commandments the most important? Because God is love. and the most worthy object of our love and devotion. All people are made in the image of God equally, and we are called to love others as ourselves. So why was this scribe not far from the kingdom of God? Because understanding what God requires gets you close to the kingdom of God, but only knowing God's Son gets you into the kingdom. The scribe needs who Jesus really is, which is why Jesus tells him that the Messiah is greater than just being the son of David. What is hypocrisy and how is it related to God's most important commandments? Jesus condemns the scribes for their religious hypocrisy because they use religion as a tool for self-promotion and self-exaltation. This is the opposite of loving God. They use God to exalt themselves. Their hypocritical religion led to the abuse and exploitation of their neighbors, not love. So what does real sincerity and loving God look like? Finally, Jesus gives his disciples a clear illustration of what sincere devotion to God looks like. A poor widow. comes into the temple to give her last two copper coins to God, and Jesus makes sure his disciples see and understand her devotion. Loving God leads to a full trust in him, even to our last Penny. By asking questions and seeing more clearly the flow of this passage, we can see that Jesus is teaching us what it looks like to be his disciple, and we can understand the priority of love. The importance of the person of Christ, the danger of hypocrisy, and the marks of true faith. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 90 as we learn also to have the heart of God by learning how to pray the Psalms. Psalm 90 is a prayer of Moses, the man of deaf God. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, wherever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. You return man to dust and say, Return, O children of man, for a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night You sweep them away as with a flood. They are like a dream, like grass that is renewed in the morning. In the morning it flourishes and is renewed. In the evening it fades and withers. For we are brought to an end by your anger, by your wrath, we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence For all our days pass away. Under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty, yet their span is but toil and trouble. They are soon gone and we fly away. Who considers the power of your anger and the wrath according to the fear of you? So teach us to number our days, that we may get a heart of wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long? Have pity on your servants Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen evil. Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the work of our hands upon us, yes, establish the work. of our hands. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, we feel the brevity of life. Seventy years, perhaps 80 if we're strong. We feel the frustration of life, that our days are often spent in sighing and sorrow. We need to acknowledge and understand that this is because we are sinful. It's because we're sinful that our lives are so short. It's because we're sinful that our lives are so full of futility and frustration. Teach us to number our days. that we may gain a heart of wisdom. Teach us to be thankful for every day as a gift and to seek your favor That your favor might rest upon us, that you might bless the work of our hands, that you might bless our children after us. And Lord, bless us with a heart of wisdom Wisdom that would love you with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. Wisdom that would love our neighbors as ourselves. Wisdom that would throw away hypocrisy and would embrace sincere trust in you. We need you to be our Savior, our Lord, our wisdom, our guide. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thanks so much for joining me again, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was a blessing to you. If you have any questions about any of these devotionals or anything else, you can feel free to email me My email address is pastor at foresthillpca. org. I'd be happy to answer any questions you have. Have a blessed day in the Lord.