Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we're getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church today. We come to the end of our 27th week together and we're coming into Luke 17. We're going to be looking at the first 19 verses today and asking this question, do we need a big faith or a living faith? A big faith or a living faith? Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we turn to His Word. Heavenly Father, please teach us from your word today. Please grow us in our knowledge of you, in our love for you, and our faith in you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke seventeen, one to nineteen. And he said to his disciples, Temptations to sin are sure to come But woe to the one through whom they come. It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck. And he were cast into the sea, then that he should cause one of these little ones to sin. Pay attention to yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him. And if he repents, forgive him. And if he sins against you seven times in the day. And turns to you seven times, saying, I repent, you must forgive him. The apostle said to the Lord, Increase our faith. And the Lord said, if you had faith like a grain of mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, Be uprooted and planted into the sea, and it would obey you. Will any of you who has a servant ploughing or keeping sheep say to him when he is coming from the field, Come at once and recline at table Will he not rather say to him, Prepare supper for me, and dress properly, and serve me while I eat and drink, and afterward you will eat and drink? Does he thank the servant because he did what was commanded? So you also, when you have done all that you were commanded, say, We are unworthy servants, we have only done what was our duty. On the way to Jerusalem he was passing along between Samaria and Galilee, and as he entered a village he was met by ten lepers, men who stood at a distance. and lifted up their voices, saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. When he saw them, he said to them, Go and show yourselves to the priests and as they went they were cleansed Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice, and he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a Samaritan. Then Jesus answered, Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner? And he said to him, Rise and go your way. Your faith has made you well. So do we need a big faith or living faith? Is it okay to ask for God to increase our faith, to give us more faith? The disciples asked Jesus to increase their faith. He didn't rebuke them or deny them outright, but he does appear to be redirecting their thinking about to the nature of faith. and the nature of their request. He tells them that if they had faith like a grain of mustard seed, they would be able to do very remarkable things So what do we know about a mustard seed? Well, first it's not very big. Jesus says elsewhere in Mark 4. 31 that it's the smallest of all seeds. Second, it is alive. The difference between a mustard seed and a small pebble of the same size is that a mustard seed is alive. It has life in it. Third, we know a mustard seed works when it falls into the ground and dies, bringing forth life from its brokenness. In John 12, 24, Jesus compares himself to a grain of wheat. which falls to the earth and dies, and in doing so brings forth much fruit. So, while the disciples thought they needed more faith, and don't we all think we need more? Jesus knew they actually needed a different kind of faith. They needed a living, dying faith, which, even if it was small, was powerful indeed. In this section, we can see some remarkable things which a mustard seed faith empowers us to do. First of all, verses 3 and 4. A mustard seed faith empowers us to forgive humbly, even seven times a day. Because we're ready to die to the demands of our satisfaction is so that someone else might live and be free. Secondly, in verses 7 to 10, we see that a mustard seed faith empowers us to serve humbly and without thanks, knowing that our privilege to serve in the kingdom of God is something we don't even deserve to have. And third, a mustard seed faith makes us thankful for the healing Jesus brings into our lives, and it leaves us to fall at his feet and worship him with gratitude. We see that in the response of the one leper. in verses 11 and 19. So instead of asking God for more faith, let's make sure we understand what we really need, which is a living, trusting faith, a faith that's willing to die to self. in order to bring glory to God and life to others. One that's humble, thankful, forgiving, and worshipful. That is mustard seed faith. And we don't need much of it. to make a huge impact in our lives and in the lives of those around us. May the Lord be pleased to give us such living faith. Psalm 131 reflects mustard seed faith. It's a song of a sense of David. O Lord, my heart is not lifted up. My eyes are not raised too high. I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me, but I have calmed and quieted my soul Like a weaned child with its mother, like a weaned child is my soul within me. O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. Let's pray. Oh Lord, you've been so good to us. You've given us everything we need in Jesus. You've given us your Holy Spirit, who lives within us, who gives us true and saving faith. Would you continue to work this faith in us? May it take deep root, may it continue to bear fruit in humility, in worship, in gratitude, in generosity, in forgiveness. In worship. Keep working in us, O Lord, for your glory and our good and the good of those around us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that brings us to the end of our twenty-seventh week together. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope that this weekend you will keep In God's Word. I hope that you will worship God on the Lord's Day with His people. I'm looking forward to this Lord's Day being back at Forest Hill Church after vacation and preaching on Psalm 36. So join us for worship on Sunday morning. And have a blessed day in the Lord.