Good morning, good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you here. We are On the third day of the 19th week, and we're looking at the second half of the Gospel of Mark, chapter 14. Verses 26 to 52. And in this passage, we're asking, what does our boasting reveal about us? Let's pray Heavenly Father, we need you to be our teacher. We need you to write your word on our hearts with power by your Holy Spirit as only you can. We need you to make us more like Jesus and draw us to follow Jesus with more love and devotion. So we pray that you would do that work in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Mark 14, 25 to 52. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives And Jesus said to them, You will all fall away, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter said to him, Even though they all fall away, I will not. And Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you this very night before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. But he said emphatically, If I must die with you, I will not deny you. And they all said the same. And they went to a place called Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. And he took with him Peter and James and John. and began to be greatly distressed and troubled. And he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch. and going a little farther, he fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible, the hour might pass from him, and he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will. And he came and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, Simon, are you asleep? Could you not watch one hour? Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words. And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy, and they did not know what to answer him. And he came the third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is enough. The hour has come. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us be going. See, my betrayer is at hand. And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, The one I will kiss is the man. Seize him and lead him away under guard. And when he came he went up to him at once, and said, Rabbi and he kissed him, and they laid hands on him and seized him. But one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. And Jesus said to them, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. But let the scriptures be fulfilled. And they all left him and fled. And a young man followed him with nothing but a linen cloth about his body, and they seized him, but he left the linen cloth and ran away naked. Jesus' words were very clear. You will all fall away. He knew well what was coming, and he understood that when the shepherd was struck, the sheep would indeed scatter. But Peter thought he knew better. Peter said boldly, Even though they all fall away, I will not. Peter then turned personally. Jesus then turned personally to Peter and spoke directly to him. Truly I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. Here's a hint. When Jesus says, truly I tell you, you keep your mouth shut and you accept what he says. But not Peter. He doubled down on his boasting. If I must die with you, I will not deny you. Now, so that we're not too harsh on Peter, Mark says, and they all said the same. In just a few short hours, Jesus will be left all alone. But at that moment, all his disciples are confident they will stand strong with him, even unto death. How wrong were they? Peter, James, and John could not even stay awake and pray with Jesus for a single hour. It is far too easy to shake our heads at these foolish disciples, but are we any different? How often have we had an overinflated view of our own righteousness or competence? How often have we strode boldly into battle, trusting in our own strength, only to fall flat on our faces, wondering what happened? Before I left for college, I told my youth group how college would not change me, but I would change my campus for Christ. I failed miserably Before I got married, I was an expert on marriage, having read books and listened to sermons and given advice to many. Today As my wife and I are approaching our 27th wedding anniversary, I could not even begin to count the number of times I have failed to live up to my own expectations over the past 27 years. I could say the same thing about parenting, which seemed very easy until I had children. Our boasting and our self-confidence shows that we do not understand God's Word and we do not understand our own hearts. The Bible tells us very clearly about our own sin, weakness, and absolute dependency on the grace of God for every good thing in our lives But we are slow to listen, slow to understand, quick to trust ourselves, and quick to boast in our own ability. Let's learn our lesson from the disciples. And let's say with the Apostle Paul, Far be it from me to boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me. and I to the world. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 94. This is the one we can boast in, the Lord, and what he does, not ourselves, and what we do. O Lord God of vengeance, O God of vengeance, shine forth. Rise up, O Judge of the earth, repay to the proud what they deserve. O Lord, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked exult? They pour out their arrogant words. All the evildoers boast. They crush your people, O Lord, and afflict your heritage. They kill the widow and the sojourner, and murder the fatherless. And they say, The Lord does not see, the God of Jacob does not perceive. Understand, O dullest of the people, fools! When will you be wise? He who planted the ear, does he not hear? He who formed the eye, does he not see? He who disciplines the nations, does he not rebuke? He who teaches man knowledge, the Lord, knows the thoughts of man that they are but a breath. Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O Lord, and whom you teach out of your law to give him rest from days of trouble until a pit is dug for the wicked For the Lord will not forsake his people. He will not abandon his heritage. For justice will return to the righteous, and all the upright in heart will follow it. Who rises up for me against the wicked? Who stands up for me against evildoers? If the Lord had not been my help My soul would soon have lived in the land of silence. When I thought my foot slips, your steadfast love, O Lord, held me up. When the cares of my heart are many, your consolations cheer my soul. Can wicked rulers be allied with you? Those who frame injustice by statute, they band together against the life of the righteous and condemn the innocent to death. But the Lord has become my stronghold And my God, the rock of my refuge, he will bring back on them their iniquity, and wipe them out for their wickedness. The Lord our God will wipe them. Out. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are the one who is dependable. Almighty God, strength that is unchallengeable. Justice that is inalterable. Power that is unopposable. We are foot slips, but it's you who hold us up We're but a breath. But you're the rock of ages. May our confidence, may our strength, may our boast, may our peace be in you In who you are, in what you have done for us, in what you have promised to us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was a blessing to you, as always, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.