Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you as we are now in our uh 13th week together and we're anticipating a wonderful week ahead as we're focused in on this section of the Heidelberg Catechism, question number 35 today on Jesus. We've been thinking about Jesus and it's always wonderful. to think about the Lord Jesus as as we do so. Let's ask the Lord for help as we turn to the catechism and of course to his word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, our gracious God, thank you so much for sending your only begotten Son into the world to be our Savior. Our Lord. We pray that you would teach us from your word today. We pray that you would build us up with our faith in Christ today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so we're in the Heidelberg Catechism, and where we are is working our way through the Apostles' Creed So this jumps us back to question number 23, where we were asked about the Apostles' Creed. What are these articles, the articles of our faith? Answer, I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried, he descended into hell. On the third day he rose He arose from the dead, he ascended into heaven, and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. So that is the Apostles' Creed. And we've been working our way through this. And last week we were looking really at the Second of these articles, I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. So we are asking, why is he called God's only begotten Son, since we are also children of God The answer is because Christ alone is the eternal, natural Son of God. We, however, are God's children by adoption through grace for Christ's sake. And that's one that we looked at last week. And then we also said, Why do you call him our Lord? And the answer is because he has ransomed us, body and soul, from all our sins, not with silver or gold. but with his precious blood, and has freed us from all the power of the devil to make us his own possession. So that was last week, little review of where we were. And today we're moving on to article number three. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary. And that brings us to Lord's Day 14 and question number um Lord's Day 143. No, Lord's Day 14. And question number 35, what do you confess when you say he was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary? Answer that the eternal Son of God, who is and remains, true and eternal God, took to himself through the working of the Holy Spirit from the flesh and blood of the Virgin Mary a true human nature, so that he might also become David's true descendant. like his brothers and sisters in every respect except for sin. So this tells us about who Christ is from eternity. He is the eternal son of God. That corresponds with what we were looking at in question 33. Christ alone is the eternal, natural son of God. So the eternal Son of God, who is and remains true and eternal God. Christ never stopped being God when he came into the world. Rather than laying aside his divine nature, he did not do that, but instead he took to himself, through the working of the Holy Spirit, from the flesh and blood of the Virgin Mary, a true human nature. so that he might become David's true descendant like his brothers and sisters in every respect except for sin. So where do we find these truths in Scripture? Well, the catechism is indeed faithful to Scripture, and one of the places where we see this is in Romans chapter 9, which we've just recently looked at at Forest Hill Church as I'm preaching through Romans. Romans 9, 4 and 5 says, They are Israelites, and to them belong the adoption, the glory the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship, and the promises. To them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ. Who is God over all, blessed forever? Amen. So according to the flesh, Christ is an Israelite But he is also God over all blessed forever. He is man according to the flesh, but he is God over all blessed forever 1 John 5. 20 puts it this way. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding. so that we may know him who is true, and we are in him who is true. In his Son, Jesus Christ, he is the true God and eternal life. By the way, people who say The Bible never says that Jesus is God. I don't know what Bible they're reading, but Romans 9. 5 says The Christ is God over all, blessed forever. Amen. And 1 John 5. 20 says, His Son Jesus Christ, he is the true God and eternal life. That's talking about the Son, Jesus Christ. That's in the context, Jesus Christ is eternal life. He is the true God. So that's who Jesus is in his eternal nature. And then in Luke 1, 35, the angel Gabriel is sent to a young virgin Who's betrothed to be married to Joseph? You know her name, Mary, and she is in the town of Nazareth, and this angel goes to this young virgin. And he says to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. Jesus is the eternal Son of God. He is God blessed forever. And yet here the angel Gabriel tells Mary that the Holy Spirit will cause Mary Divinely, by divine creation, will cause Mary to be with child, and he will be the son of God. And because he is the son of Mary, That is how Romans 9, 4 and 5 can say that he is from their race according to the flesh, that is the Israelites. Mary is an Israelite, and Jesus is formed in her womb, and he gets his human nature from her. That's what Catechism Question 35 says, from the flesh and blood of the Virgin Mary. He's given a true human nature. And that's it corresponds with what Romans tells us, with what Luke tells us, with what the rest of Scripture says. Why? Why did the Son of God have to become truly man, fully sharing in our flesh and blood? Why couldn't he just sort of appear on the scene? Well Hebrews gives us the answer to that question in a couple of different powerful verses. Hebrews 2. 17 says, Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect. so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. Why did Jesus have to come and be made like us in every respect, take on true human nature or true human flesh and blood? Well, a couple of reasons. We need a merciful and faithful high priest. We need one who can be an advocate with the Father, who can represent our humanity accurately and well, and so he needs a human nature just like our human nature so that his human nature can represent our human nature before God. And the second is as our high priest, he makes propitiation. That is, he appeases The wrath of God. He offers up the sacrifice to satisfy divine justice and appease the wrath of God, and that sacrifice is himself. himself for the sins of the people. And then Hebrews 4. 15 says, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Jesus is this sympathetic high priest He knows exactly what it's like to be tempted because he was tempted in every way, just as we are. Tempted by by Lust of the flesh, tempted by lust of the eyes, tempted by pride of life. All three of those temptations, by the way, if you look at the way that Jesus was tempted in the desert wilderness after fasting for forty days and Satan came and tempted him. Turning the stone into bread, that's the lust of the flesh, uh taking in all the kingdoms of the world and all their wealth, that's the lust of the eyes, throwing himself down from the pinnacle of the temple and showing off before everybody That would be the pride of life. He was tempted in all the three of those ways, and those are the three major ways that Satan tempts us. And yet he was without sin. The temptation he faced, he was at his weakest He had been fasting for 40 days in a desert wilderness. He was hungry. He was tired. And Satan came at him personally. He didn't send his henchmen. He came himself. And so yet Jesus was without sin. He did not sin in any way. This is the good news of the gospel. Without a fully human Savior We have no representative before the throne of God. We have no high priest who can sympathize with our weaknesses. We have no propitiation that can satisfy divine justice unless the eternal Son of God, who is of infinite value Becomes a man, offers his life for us, a sinless sacrifice. But because he did, we have a wonderful Savior. So back to our catechism question. Why do you confess? Sorry, what do you confess when you say he was conceived by the Holy Spirit born of the Virgin Mary? We're confessing that the eternal Son of God who is and remains true and eternal God, took to himself, through the working of the Holy Spirit, from the flesh and blood of the Virgin Mary, a true human nature. so that he might also become David's true descendant, like his brothers and sisters in every way except sin. That's gospel comfort that we have such a high priest and such a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son, your one and only Son, the eternal Son of God, who is God over all, blessed forever. You sent him into this world to be born of the Virgin Mary, to be to be made of flesh. of her flesh and born of her as a human being, as a human baby boy, as a one who grew up to be a human man. Who obeyed you perfectly, who never sinned, who offered himself up on the cross, and then rose again and now sits at your right hand, ever-living to make intercession for us as our great high priest This is the salvation. This is the Savior we have. Such a marvelous, marvelous Savior. May we trust Him. May we follow Him. May we worship Him. In Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to respond to this truth from God by worshiping God together in song. We're going to catch an old uh Christmas carol, one of the oldest Christmas carols, one of the oldest hymns that we sing in the church Of the Father's love begotten. Of the father's love begotten Ere the world began to be out there. He the source, the ending he of the things that are this had. Have been and that future years shall see evermore and evermore. She is found in human fashion Death and sorrow here to know that we raised the battle. Children do dwell to end the soul, may not ask for thy In that dreadful God we know evermore and evermore Ever more ever blessed when the Virgin fold of grace by no east dee. For the Savior already, and the paper was redeemed. First revealed his secret face evermore and evermore Oh he hides. Of heaven glory, Angel hostel's praises, house the millions for before. And explore our power. Let no tongue on it be started. Every voice in counsel me Ever more and ever more, ever and ever, every more.