Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you as we begin our thirty-second week together in the Gospels, and we're in the Gospel of John today. Looking at the first 21 verses and considering the idea of being born again. What does it mean to be born again? So let's pray and ask the Lord for his help as we look to his word today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this opportunity we have to spend time in your word together. We thank you for your love for us, we thank you for your word, we thank you for your Son. We pray that your Holy Spirit would come. And speak to us in our hearts and draw us closer to Christ. We pray this in his name. Amen. Okay. John 3, verses 1-21. Now, there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Jesus answered him, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered him, Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things? Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know, and we bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. If I have told you of earthly things, and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up that whoever believes in him. May have eternal life. For God so loved the world that He gave His only Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish, but have eternal life For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only And this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. Born again. What does it mean to be born again? Do you know someone who is born again? Are you born again? Nicodemus was really confused by this expression. He thought, how can a grown man crawl into his mother's womb and be born again? When you think of a born-again Christian, do you think of a particular kind of Christian? Maybe a Bible thumping, street preaching, sign-waving person. Have you ever met a Christian who isn't born again? Well, not if you met a true Christian, because born again isn't a particular brand of Christian. It really is a necessary precondition to becoming a Christian. As Jesus told Nicodemus clearly in verse 3, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. What does that mean? Well, Jesus says that which is born of the flesh is flesh. We're all born into this world as flesh and blood human beings, but we also inherit from Adam A spiritual death, a dead spirit, a sinful nature, a corrupt heart, spiritual blindness, the blindness of the death being spiritually dead. And so that's what we're born into the world with. And that which is born of the flesh is flesh. But flesh and blood cannot inherit the In other words, we need something more than our flesh to be able to see and understand and inherit the kingdom of God. So what we need is not a physical experience, but a transformation. We need the Holy Spirit. The wind blows where it wishes. You see the sign of it, but you don't know where it comes from or where it's going. Is the imagery of the Holy Spirit. We need to be born again because that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. The Holy Spirit has to make our spirit alive So that we can hear God, we can see God, we can know God. Not with the physical senses. A lot of people misunderstand that. Oh, how do you hear God? Well, you hear God speaking through the scriptures Through the Bible. That is the Word of God. That's how God speaks. How do you see God? By faith, you believe that He's real. Faith is the evidence of things unseen, the substance of things hoped for. Hebrews 12 says. So being born again is not a physical experience that leads to a physical manifestation of like hearing the voice of God with your ears and seeing. angels and things with your eyes. No, it's a spiritual experience that makes us so that we're not just physically alive and spiritually dead, but now we are physically alive and we are spiritually alive. Ephesians 2 tells us that everybody was born into this world, dead in our sins and trespasses in which we used to walk, and we were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of the world. Mankind. Even though we're physically alive, we're cut off from God, we're under the curse of Adam's sin, and we must be born. again. Some people get it backwards and think that when you believe in Jesus, then you become born again. But Jesus is pretty clear that unless you are born again, you're not going to see the kingdom of God. you're not going to enter the kingdom of God. So you must be born again as a prerequisite. The Spirit must move in your heart, must bring you from death to life, must open the eyes of your heart, must enlighten your eyes and awaken your soul so that you can believe in the Son of God. Now some people have wrestled with this and have said, but but Jesus says that whoever believes And so it doesn't say that there's a precondition. Well, remember that verse 16, whoever believes, comes after the references to the need to be born again. So it's absolutely true that whoever believes, whosoever will, whoever believes, in Jesus as the Son of God shall not perish, but have eternal life. This is why Jesus came into the world, not can to not to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him, in order that those who believe might be saved. But We're not going to see the kingdom of God. We're not going to enter into. We're not going to believe in Jesus. We're not going to repent of our sin and turn to Him for salvation unless the Holy Spirit first does something in us. Our hearts that makes us alive to God and therefore able to believe. If you believe in Jesus as the Son of God and as your Savior and Lord, If you have put your faith in him, you've come into the light, which is Jesus, then know that the reason why you did that is because you have Been born again. Without being born again, faith is impossible. Without being born again, you'd be dead in your sins, and dead in your sins, you're not going to believe in Jesus. But we believe because we are spirit Spiritually alive, and we are spiritually alive because the Holy Spirit has done that work in our hearts, and if God has done that for us, that's a work that cannot be undone. spiritually alive. And that means you have eternal life. You will not perish, but you will live forever. That's good news. That's something to hold on to. That's something to trust in. That your faith is the evidence that God is at work in you and that God will finish the work that He did. began when he first made you born again. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your Son Jesus, our Savior. Thank you that he came into the world, not good to condemn the world, but that we might be saved if we believe in him. But thank you that you also sent your Holy Spirit to make us born again so that we can believe. So that we can turn from ourselves and trust in Christ, look to Him for eternal life, and find in Him the very life of God that we need to live. live forever. Anyone who believes in Jesus is saved, but only those who have been born again. will be able to believe. So thank you for doing that work of grace in our hearts. We pray that you would do that work of grace in the hearts of those we love who do not know you, who are still dead in their sins and trust Would you, by your Holy Spirit, cause them to be born again and show them the kingdom of God that may enter and believe in Jesus Christ? It's in his name. And for his glory that we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me on time in the Gospels as we're in the Gospel of John now. I hope these have been an encouragement and a blessing to you. If you don't receive our emails that have a written version, the written version is slightly different from the version that I'm speaking because it's more extemporaneous but if you're not receiving those and you want to you can email me and I'll put you on the email list or if you have any questions about anything that you hear you can Also email me. My email address is pastor at foresthillpca. org. That's pastor at foresthillpca. org. Have a blessed day In the Lord.