Amen. Amen. He has come down from heaven to earth to be our Savior, to lead us into peace, to lead us into righteousness, to reconcile us to God, to bring us us home. This was the mission he was given. And we read about this mission in Isaiah 49. So turn with me please to Isaiah 49. And we will look at verses one through seven. Isaiah forty-nine 1 through 7. This is the second of the servant songs in the book of Isaiah. This one is different because It is not the Lord singing about his servant, but is the servant himself who sings this song. Isaiah 49, verses 1 through 7 seven. Listen to me, O coastlands, and give attention, you peoples from afar. The Lord called me from the womb. From the body of my mother he named my name. He made my mouth like a sharp sword. In the shadow of his hand he hid me. He made me a polished arrow. In his quiver, he hid me away. And he said to me, You are my servant Israel, in whom I will be glorified. But I said, I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for nothing in vanity, yet surely my right is with the Lord. And my recompense is with my God. And now the Lord says, He who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him. And that Israel might be gathered to him, for I am honored in the eyes of the Lord, and my God has become my strength, he says. It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel. I will make you as a light for the nations. that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. Thus says the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel and His Holy One, to one deeply despised abhorred by the nation, the servant of rulers, kings, shall see and arise, princes, and they shall prostrate themselves because of the Lord who is faithful. The Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your wonderful servant, Son. Son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you that you named him from the womb, Jesus. Whose name means salvation, that you sent him to be a light not just to the people of Israel, but to the ends of the earth, even to us here in America, 2,000 years later, to bring salvation. To bring light in the darkness, to bring hope and joy. We pray that you would speak to us Today, through your word, we pray that you would build us up in our faith in Christ this Advent season. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. So this is the first. Normally we get to Advent and we take a break from our normal sermon series and we go and find some Advent passages to focus on for Advent. And I was honestly thinking, what am I going to do for Advent this year? I've done several Advent series, and what's going to be the one for this year? And I just started reading ahead in Isaiah, and when I read The Lord called me from the womb, from the body of my mother, he named my name. I thought, I didn't get much more Christmassy than that And really, as I read Isaiah 49 and 50, I thought, these are actually wonderful Advent passages. So we're just going to keep going in Isaiah, even as we shift our focus a little bit more intentionally to the fact that this is the Advent season and that these servant songs are very Advent appropriate. It is the first Sunday in Advent. We do usually call this time of year the Christmas season. And I know some of you have been waiting and waiting, and some of you haven't been waiting. You just cheated and went ahead anyway. But We waited and we got our our Christmas tree yesterday morning and it's sitting in our living room undecorated. I like it to sit for, you know, a day or two undecorated because I just think it's beautiful that way and it gets it to open up and we started playing Christmas music in our house. And, you know, we call this the Christmas season, but really for centuries the church has referred to this time of year as Advent. And Advent means coming, and it is really a period of waiting, waiting for the coming of Jesus. It is not yet Christmas proper. There are 12 days of Christmas, you might know, and so Christmas starts on December 25th, which is why our Christmas Eve service is Christmas. Christmas Eve and goes for twelve days. And so this is really the waiting for Christmas period. Kids know. That this is the waiting for Christmas period. They know that Christmas hasn't come yet, and they are waiting and counting down the days until Christmas comes. Now they might not have the most spiritual and godly motivations why they're waiting for Christmas, but they're waiting nonetheless. And they're waiting for the coming of that morning. Waiting is hard. I do not like waiting. I have not found waiting to get any easier as I have gotten older. I never liked waiting when I was a kid. Always wanted to know what my parents were going to get me for Christmas. Never trusted that they were going to get me what I really wanted. So sometimes my brothers and I would pressure my sister into telling us what my mom had gotten because um My sister always helped my mom wrap the presents. And so then we sort of used a combination of bribery and intimidation to uh yeah, Jim, don't pretend like eating didn't do it. Um to get the answers out of our sister as to what we were getting for Christmas. Kids, don't do that. It's bad. It ruins Christmas. But I couldn't wait. I hated waiting. The Advent season, though, is a reminder to us as we go back to the prophets. And we read things like Isaiah 49 and we read this very clear, it's a song of Jesus singing, the Lord, He named me. From the womb of my mother. And yet, this is being written down over 700 years before Jesus is born. It's a reminder to us that before Jesus came, the first time, there were centuries of waiting. The first gospel promise was given way back in the Garden of Eden, Genesis 3. 15, when God cursed the serpent and said that the seed of the woman was going to crush The head of the serpent. It was thousands of years before the serpent crusher finally arrived on the scene. And he did indeed crush the head of the serpent, even as his heel was crushed on the cross. But there was waiting And advent is a reminder to us that even during the periods of waiting, there is benefit and there is blessing. Waiting is not without purpose, it's not without profit. Think about it. We get most of our Bibles from the centuries of waiting. Over a 1500-year period of time, from when Moses began to write first five books to when Jesus finally came, fifteen centuries of waiting, and we get all of the Old Testament, all these wonderful gospel pictures and promises. They come out. of waiting. Since Jesus went away the first time, we're now waiting again for his second advent, his second coming. And it's been 2,000 years since he left. And sometimes we can think, how long is it going to be? How long is it going to be? But there's benefit that has come to the world from 2,000 years of waiting. The gospel has gone out. to the ends of the earth and new tribes and tongues and peoples and nations are coming to know the Lord. And you and I very personally should be very thankful that the Lord waited two thousand years because where would we be? You know, if Jesus came back in that first generation of Christians, neither we nor our parents or grandparents or greatparents or anybody would have existed, much less come to know the Lord and been part of the new heaven. And so waiting has benefit. And I'm preaching this to myself this morning because, like I said, I don't like waiting. But it's a reminder that if the Lord has us in a period of waiting Whether it's waiting for a bone marrow biopsy, or it's waiting for a CT scan or MRI result, or it's waiting for a wayward child to turn and come back to the Lord, or waiting. Some of you are already waiting for winter to be over. I'm sorry. Sorry, not sorry. I waited a long time for the cold weather to finally get here. Now it's here. But when we are waiting, God has good for us. Just as surely as we can say, we got most of our Bible when people were waiting, and most of the Christians who've come to know the Lord have There's a purpose to it, there's a design for it. So we come to Isaiah 49. And as I said, it's the second servant song. We looked at the first one back in Isaiah 42, way back in May. The third and fourth are going to come pretty quickly. Because they're coming up in the next chapters. But Isaiah 42, if you remember, was a song about the servant. Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights. This second servant song, though, it is it's striking in that it is the servant himself who sings. So it's the servant's song It's himself who's speaking, and he speaks at first with a remarkable authority, as he commands, listen to me, O coastlands, and give attention you peoples from afar. This is the first thing the servant says He's summoning the whole world, all peoples, not just Israel, but the very the coastlands is away in the Bible of saying the farthest ends of the earth. That's us, by the way. We have a very America-centric view of the world, but if you actually had a Jerusalem-centric view of the world and thought about it, we are the ends of the earth. We are the distant coastlands. So Jesus is saying to you and me, listen up, I got something to say to you this morning. Who can have the authority to summon the peoples on the ends of the earth to hear and pay attention what he has to say? Well, he tells us who he is. He's the one called by name from the womb of the Lord. Now what's interesting is in this song of the servant, it can be a little bit confusing because at times it does seem like this servant is an individual. The Lord called me from the womb, from the womb of my mother. And yet When the Lord speaks and speaks of this servant in verse 3, he says to him, You are my servant Israel, in whom I will be glorified. And the response of the servant back in verse 4 is, I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for nothing in vanity, yet surely my right is with the Lord, and my recompense is with my God. And here we really have to understand the relationship between Israel and Jesus, or the relationship between the Old Testament and the New Testament, and how it all fits together in Christ. And on one level it's highly mysterious and complex, but on another level it's actually very simple. When God first called Abraham Out to leave his family and leave his home and go into the land that the Lord was going to show him, he said to him in Genesis 12, I will bless you, and you will be a blessing. And he said, through you all the offspring of the earth will be blessed. And there was a promise given. And then later, when Isaac was going to be born to Sarah when she was 90 years old. God named Isaac before he was born and said, I will establish my covenant with Isaac. Your wife Sarah will bear a son, you'll call his name Isaac. I'll establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his offspring after him. So the point of Israel and the calling of Israel from the very beginning has always been that through the offspring of Israel God would establish an everlasting covenant, and all the families of the earth, all the nations of the earth would be blessed. For hundreds of years, God's people wondered and waited if perhaps Isaac, is he the one who's going to bring the promise to the nations? Well, no. Okay. But then he has twins, Jacob and Esau, and Jacob is chosen over Esau, and he receives the covenant blessing. Is he the one Who's going to bring the blessing to the nations? Well, he wrestles with God all night, his name gets changed to Israel. That's where we have the actual beginning of a person named Israel who then has twelve sons who become the twelve tribes of Israel. Is this now the time for the blessing to come to the nations? No, not yet. And it's waiting and it's waiting and could it be David and could it be Solomon? Could it be Zerubbabel? He's an often overlooked one, but if you read Haggai, there was all this expectation after the exile to Babylon that Zerubbabel was going to be the one. No, no. No. And that's, I think, the meaning behind verse 4. I've labored in vain, I've spent my strength for nothing in vanity. Yet surely my right is with the Lord. God's made a promise. God's going to keep his promise, but he hasn't done it yet. He hasn't done it yet. And so when Jesus comes into the world, sometimes we think there was all this Old Testament stuff. And then Jesus came into the world, and so now we get all this New Testament stuff, and that's not really the way it works. The way it works is all this Old Testament stuff was preparing the way because when Jesus comes into the world He comes as the fulfillment of all of the hopes and all of the promises and all of the expectations that God has for Israel. In that way, Jesus is the true Israel. He is the promised offspring of Abraham, of Isaac, of Jacob, of David, who would bring the light to the the nations. He is Israel. By the way, this is why in the Gospel of John, Jesus said things like, I am the light of the world. We often think of that as, well, Jesus was saying, I'm the light of the world because he's God. That's true. But Israel was called to be a light to the world, the light to the Gentiles. Gentiles. So when Jesus says, I am the light of the world, he's saying I'm here to be all that Israel was supposed to be and never could be, and for centuries of waiting, now I've come. Throughout the Old Testament, Israel was called the vine of God, but Jesus comes into the world and says, I am the true vine So Jesus is the true Israel. And he comes to do two things. He comes to gather together the remnant of Israel. Look at verse 6. The preserved of Israel, it's called He comes to gather together the remnant of Israel, the twelve apostles who are called, they're all Jewish. They're all from the tribes of Israel. Jesus' first followers, the 120 who were gathered in the upper room, the 3,000 who came in at Pentecost, they're all Jewish, they're all the holy remnant of Israel. But that plan was never to stop there. Look at verse 6. It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Israel and bring back the preserved sorry, the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel. I will make you as a light to the nations, that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. It was always about going to Israel, yes, but then beyond Israel How did Jesus work this out? Well, during his lifetime and during his ministry, he said, I was sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. But then at the end of his ministry, He gathered his disciples right before he ascended back into heaven, and he said, All authority in heaven on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Of all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. So it's always been About Israel bringing in to the world, the one who's the fulfillment of all of Israel, and then through Israel to the whole world. And he can bring salvation to the whole world because of who he is. He was named from the womb. Who is he? Well, he's Jesus, of course. What does that name have to do with what he does? Well, we're told in Matthew chapter 1, a very familiar Christmas passage. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Which prophet? Isaiah. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. Which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife and he did not know her until she'd given birth and he called his name Jesus. You ever wonder wait, I thought Jesus' name was supposed to be Emmanuel. Why is it Jesus? Anybody wonder that question? Like, wait a minute, how come his name is Emmanuel, his name is Jesus? That's not the same name. They're not even spelled the same Emmanuel means God with us. As we're going to say in a little bit, our God is for us. God is with us and God is for us, but how can God be with us and how can God be for us if we are sinful and he is holy? If we remain sinful and he remains holy, the only thing he can be is against us Yes. But Jesus comes to be the one who saves us from our sins so that God can be with us and for us. But here's the thing, although God is with us and God is for us, it's not just good news for us, it's good news for the world. And just as surely as those first believers, they wanted to sort of keep the gospel for themselves in their Jewish identity. God sent persecution to scatter the church so that they would do what they were called to do and take his gospel to the world We see this in verse seven. Thus says the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, and his holy one, to one deeply despised, abhorred by the nations, the servant of rulers Kings shall see and arise, princes, and they shall prostrate themselves because of the Lord who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you. All right, so he's deeply despised, he's abhorred by the nation, and yet Kings shall arise and see, and princes and they shall prostrate themselves. What does that mean? Well We get a little expansion of this in the fourth and final servant song that we'll be looking at sometime. And that is at the end of Isaiah 52 and the beginning of Isaiah 53. So if you still have Isaiah open, just flip ahead to the end of 52, starting in verse 13. And we get this fourth servant song, which begins, Behold my servant. Shall act wisely. He shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted. As many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind, so shall he sprinkle many nations. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him For that which has not been told them they shall see, and that which they have not heard, they understand. Who has believed what he heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him as a young plant, and as a root out of dry ground, he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised. And rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteem him. We esteemed him not. We see here the same elements. He was despised and rejected by men. But also he will sprinkle many nations, kings will shut their mouths because of him for that which has not been told they see, and that which they have not heard they understand. So you have the rejection, and yet you have the kings of the earth seeing. How does that work? Well, it's all tied in with how this fourth servant song begins: Behold, my servant shall act wisely, he shall be high and lifted up. and shall be exalted. What did Jesus say in John chapter 12 about himself being high and lifted up? Do you remember? On the cross. He said, But I, when I am lifted up, I will draw all peoples, all the nations, to myself. And John says by this he was speaking of the cross. But the people who heard it knew. They're like, wait a minute, we heard the Messiah is going to continue forever. How was he supposed to be lifted up? They understood he was talking about crucifixion because they had seen people lifted up and lifted up and lifted up on crosses. I said at the beginning of the sermon that waiting has a purpose. But no one likes waiting. Rejection and suffering has a purpose. We don't like rejection or suffering either. But you see, if Jesus had not been rejected, if he had not been abhorred by the nation, he would not have ended up on the cross. From a human perspective. That's what happened. Jesus came into the world and and he was everything That God had said he was going to be, but he was nothing that the people expected. Think about that. Jesus came into the world and he was everything that God had said he was going to be, but he was nothing that the people expected. That's why Jesus confronted the religious leaders in his day, and he said, You search the scriptures, thinking that in them you'll have eternal life, but these are they which testify about me And yet you will not come to me. There's never been a person in the history of the world whose life in detail has been more foretold than Jesus. We are told everything about Jesus. From the fact he was going to be born of a virgin. He was going to be born in Bethlehem. That he was going to speak words of wisdom that could not be opposed, that he was going to speak in parables, that he was going to open the eyes of the blind, that he was going to set the oppressed free. That he was going to be crucified and rejected. Everything was there in the scriptures. And yet, he did not meet the expectations of those who were experts and who thought they knew All the major political factions in Israel, there were the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the Herodians. And then there was the scribes and the teachers of the law. All five of those groups had power on one level or another because of their connection The Pharisees, they were the teachers of the people. The Sadducees, they ran the temple. The Herodians, they had favor with the Romans. The scribes, they had they kept copies of the scripture, and so if you wanted a copy of the scripture, you had to get it done by a scribe. And the teachers of the law were the people who were actually in the synagogue teaching. They all had power. They all had authority. They couldn't agree on anything. It's like trying to get well, it's worse than trying to get Democrats and Republicans to agree about anything Yeah, five different political factions who all have different interest groups and different sources of their authority. They couldn't agree on anything. They couldn't even agree on what the Word of God was. The Sadducees said it was just the Torah, the five books of Moses But the Pharisees said it was the whole of the Old Testament scriptures, all of the writings and the law and the prophet and the writings. And then they couldn't agree on how that was to be done. They agreed on one thing. You know what brought them all together? Only one thing brought them all together. This Jesus guy, we got to get rid of him. None of us like him. They despised him. And yet if they had not despised him, he wouldn't have ended up at the cross. And by ending up at the cross, he paid for our salvation. And so his rejection by the nation meant the gospel goes to the world. And the early church, I told you already, the early church, they were they were being sort of harassed, persecuted, imprisoned. In and around Jerusalem and Judea, but they were growing, they were growing to the thousands until Stephen, Acts chapter 7, he's martyred, he's stoned to death. And then the church is like, wait a minute, they're not just giving us a hard time, they're killing us. And they were scattered. They went into hiding. They scattered throughout. And what happens? The gospel goes to the Gentiles. To the Samaritans first and then to the Gentiles, which is exactly what Jesus told them to do. You're going to be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in Judea, and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. But they didn't get to the ends of the earth without being driven out of their comfort zone. What does that mean for us? It means this. We can either, we can either meet the world's expectations, or we can be obedient to Scripture. But we can't do both. Because they don't align. They didn't in Jesus' day and they don't today. The world says Seek your own. Have it your way. Live for yourself. You do you. You take care of yourself, take some me time. I mean you can think that there's a thousand slogans in our culture that all basically come down to the same thing. Self-centered, self-interested people make sense. That's the way it works. That's the world's expectation. It's not the way of the cross. It's not why Jesus came. And it's not what Scripture calls us to. Scripture calls us to, if you were here in Sunday school this morning, you heard it. You've heard it said, love your neighbors and hate your enemies. But I say to you, love your enemies, and pray for those who persecute you. Do good to those who insult you. If someone slaps you on the one cheek, turn to him the other one also. If someone takes your cloak, give him your coat as well. If someone asks you to go one mile, go with him two miles. In Romans 12, the Apostle Paul would say it as: do not repay anyone evil for evil, but overcome evil with good. That's what God calls us to, and it's not what the world expects at all. But it is what God uses to advance the gospel. To those who are least expected. Think of who did come to Jesus? Tax collectors. Women of ill repute, children, centurions The people who weren't on anybody's list of most likely to sit at the table with Messiah when he comes, they probably had a list. They probably had seating arrangements. When Messiah comes. Annas and Caiaphas and all the high priestly family, they'll sit over here. All the chief Pharisees, they'll sit over here. It'll be great. You even see the apostles trying to get in on that, which is why I think it was a thing that they probably talked about. Because the apostles are trying to get in on that. Remember James and John. They didn't have the courage to ask Jesus himself. They sent their mom They did. James and John, they sent their mom. Hey mom, go talk to Jesus for us. Jesus, aren't don't I just have the best boys? I mean I know you've got Peter and Andrew. They're brothers too, but James and John, they're real can't they can't they just sit at your right hand and your left in your kingdom? She actually asked him that, which just shows that they still didn't get it And so when he responds to them, he says, um are you able to drink the cup that I'm going to drink and be baptized with the baptism that I'm going to be baptized with? They said Yes, we're in, Jesus. Is this our ticket to the seat at the table? He says, you have no idea what you're talking about. But you will. You will drink the cup I drink, and you will be baptized. James was the first of the apostles to be martyred. Run through with a sword. John outlived them all, ended up on the island of Patmos in exile, writing Revelation. But they suffered because that's the way of the cross. It's the way the world doesn't understand. Why would you choose suffering? Why would you choose to be rejected? Because it's how the gospel reached us, and it's how the gospel will reach those who have yet to be reached. So I think Isaiah 49 is calling us to two very unexpected things this Advent season. A willingness to wait on the Lord, and a willingness to embrace suffering for the Lord. Because that's the call. The call is to wait. And while we wait, bear witness. And if that witness is rejected, we keep bearing witness. And we go to the least likely. We go to the ones that the world has tossed aside. And we tell them of the Savior who loves them. It's what God's people have been doing throughout the 2,000 years we've been waiting. One of my favorite examples of this is a guy that will celebrate sort of in about three months' time. Patrick. I say celebrate sort of because like St. Patrick's Day is that. Absolutely nothing to do with Patrick of Ireland, but he still was a real guy, one of my heroes of the faith. He was kidnapped and enslaved by the Irish. for years, by the Lord's help, escaped slavery, got away, got clear of Ireland. Went to seminary, went through training, became a pastor, became a leader within the church, and then felt called by the Lord to go back to Ireland. To Ireland? The people who kidnapped me and enslaved me? And he went. And within a generation of him returning to Ireland, the gospel had swept over the whole land. And the pagan human sacrificing ways of the Irish people that they'd embraced for centuries were gone. And none of us would be here now if it wasn't for him. And there's other stories too. So that's the call. The call is to wait, and the call is to follow Jesus In being abhorred by the nation and deeply despised, so that kings may see and arise princes and prostrate themselves before the Lord who is faithful. before the Holy One of Israel, who's chosen Christ to be the way of salvation, and who's chosen us to be ambassadors of Christ to this world. Let's pray. O Lord, our God. You work in unexpected ways. You refuse to conform yourself To the world's expectations, because the world's expectations are poisonously self-centered and dark. And you are the light of the world. And just as the light penetrates the darkness, and at first it is painful and even blinding. It brings transformation and life. Life to the dead. Thank you. Oh Lord Jesus, thank you for coming for us. Thank you for bringing us to yourself. Thank you for gathering us in as your people. This Advent season, may we answer your call to wait on you and to embrace suffering for you for the sake of the Of the testimony of Christ, which does not fit into any of the world's categories, but is the good news that the world needs to hear. You alone have the words of eternal life because you alone are the word of eternal life. Send us out with you in our hearts and on our lips this advent season Season and always we pray in Jesus' name, Amen