Today we're in Isaiah 48, verses 12 to 22. This is the word of God. Listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel, whom I called. I am He. I am the first, and I am the last. My hand laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand spread out the heavens. When I call to them, they stand forth together. Assemble all of you and listen. Who among them has declared these things? The Lord loves him, he shall perform his purpose on Babylon, and his arms shall be against the Chaldeans. I, even I, have spoken and called him. I have brought him, and he will prosper in his way. Draw near to me, hear this. From the beginning I have not spoken in secret. From the time it came to be, I have been there. And now the Lord God has sent me and his Spirit. Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, I am the Lord your God, who teaches you to profit, who leads you in the way you should go. Oh, that you had paid attention to my commandments! Then your peace would have been like a river, and your righteousness like the waves of the sea. Your offspring would have been like the sand and your descendants like its grains. Their name would never be cut off or destroyed from before me. Go out from Babylon. flee from Chaldea, declare this with a shout of joy, proclaim it, send it out to the end of the earth. Say, The Lord has redeemed his servant Jacob They did not thirst when he led them through the deserts. He made water flow for them from the rock. He split the rock and the water gushed out. There is no peace, says the Lord, for the wicked. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come together this morning as your people to hear from you. And you have brought this portion of your word before us. In your care for us, this is where you're speaking to us today. And so we pray that we would listen. We would listen to our God, our Creator, our Redeemer, our Father. And that you would enable us to receive your word by faith and to respond with our whole lives. And we ask this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Peace. In nineteen sixty nine, the great philosophers John Lennon and Yoko Ono Wrote one of their most profound theses, All we are saying is give peace a chance. Thousands of young people thought this was a profound new revelation, something that had never been thought of before, something that needed to be sung in the hearing of powerful men of influence that they might be willing to give peace a chance. They were apparently convinced that over thousands of years of human history, no one else had ever tried this profound strategy We don't need any more wars. Let's just give peace a chance. What they probably didn't know is that forty-one years before That wonderful song came into the world. The most powerful nations in the world came together to do exactly what John and Yoko wanted. They signed the Kellogg Briand Treaty on august twenty seventh, nineteen twenty-eight. Under the terms of the Kellogg-Briand Treaty, war was declared to be illegal. And all signatories of this treaty agreed to two national policies. Number one That they would never settle a dispute by war. War would be outlawed as a national policy. And that they would settle all of their disputes by peaceful means. This really was signed August 27, 1928. Fifteen nations signed on that day, including France, the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, Australia New Zealand, South Africa, India, Belgium, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Germany, Italy, and Japan. Later, 47 more nations would sign, resulting in one of the most widely signed treaties in the history of the world, signed by almost every established nation. an empire in the world. They signed this treaty ten years after the end of the bloodiest war that the world had ever seen. World War One, which some had called the war to end all wars, and now they were making sure that was going to be the case. No more wars After all, 15 to 16 million people had died in World War I. Nothing like that had ever happened in human history. So they outlawed war. 10 years later. The Second World War erupted, which would eventually involve just about all of the countries that signed the Kellogg Briand Treaty and would result in the deaths of 50 million people. The truth is that people have been on an endless and mostly fruitless quest for peace ever since Adam and Eve took the first bite. of forbidden fruit, which led almost immediately to the first conflict in human history between Adam and Eve over whose fault it was And then, not too long later, led to the first murder in human history as Cain killed his brother Abel. There's a connection here. Because the real source of human conflict on a personal level, on a global level, is the sinful desire of our corrupt human hearts to have our own way. And you can't sing that away, you can't legislate that away, you can't medicate that away. Sin leads to sorrow. Only the God who created us and who calls us to himself can give us peace. And he promises, in our text, he promises us that if we listen to him, He says it in the conditional to his people, oh, that you would have paid attention, oh, that you had paid attention to my commandments, then your peace would have been like a river. And your righteousness like the waves of the sea. Now, I'm not saying that the reason why we have so much conflict in the world is because the world isn't religious enough. Please don't hear me say that. That's not what I'm saying. The world doesn't need more religion. The world needs redemption. People need redemption. We need God to rule in our hearts. Religion is Mostly man-made and has proven to be a very good place to hide from trusting and obeying God. Just give me the checklist of things to do, and that means God will leave me alone and I can The good news of the gospel is that God sent his Son into the world to redeem To rescue religious people and non-religious people who have stubbornly rebelled against him The end of Isaiah 48 is a is a transitional passage. It's preparing the way for the second servant song in Isaiah 49, and then for this beautifully Christ-centered section. of Isaiah. Probably my favorite portion of this whole book is chapters 49 to 55. Just powerful. And the middle of that is chapter 53. We're going to be getting there soon. But this is the end of this section. This section's been talking about Cyrus. Primarily for telling that, hey, you guys are going to go into Babylonian exile, but you need to trust me and wait upon me because a guy named Cyrus is going to come along and he's going to restore you. From your Babylonian exile, he's going to bring you back into the land. But after he's done talking about Cyrus, the end of 48 here is pointing us to the fact that Cyrus isn't going to be enough. Cyrus is great. I mean, it's a great thing that God restored his people to the promised land. It's a great thing that God foretold it 170 years ahead of time. It's wonderful. But it's not enough. It's not enough. So we begin to get our first hints of the one who's going to come who's going to be greater. than Cyrus, and he's going to be singing to us in December from chapter forty-nine Our passage today, the second oracle in chapter 48, chapter 48 has two oracles, one that we looked at last week, one that we're looking at this week. They both begin with this summons. So last week it was hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel. And then this one begins with, listen to me, O Jacob and Israel. That's kind of how you know there's a new oracle because it starts with hear this or listen to this. But notice the difference. There's a subtle difference, a shift. There's a shift from law to grace. There's a shift from what they deserve to be called to what God's calling them graciously. Last week Hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel. And we spent some time thinking about the fact that even though they had this new name of Israel, They still had the old nature of Jacob, the deceiver, and that's who they really were, even though they were having the name of Israel. But now God graciously simply says, listen to me, O Jacob and Israel, whom I called. There's a world of difference between us calling ourselves something and God calling us something. I can call myself anything. And it doesn't mean anything. Because my words have zero effect to actually bring about what I say, despite what some people would tell you otherwise. But God, when he calls you, you are what he calls you. And so if he says, yes, you're Jacob, but you're Israel. You're my people. Yes, you're stubborn. Yes, you're a deceiver. Yes, you're a usurper, but you are my people. Whom I have called to be my own. Who is the one who calls us? I am he, he says. I am the first, and I am the last. I am the first and I am the last. I am He, the one true God, the first and the last. God is the one. He's calling us to life and to peace. He's the one we need. He's the one true God. He's the beginning and the end. In Revelation 1. 8, God identifies himself to the Apostle John in this way. I am the Alpha and the Omega. says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty. Beautiful. It's almost a definition of Godhood to be the first and the last, the alpha and the omega, because it means you're the creator of all, everything comes from you. And you will be after all. Everything will be summed up by you. You're the creator, the sustainer, and the judge. Or as we said earlier, God is a spirit infinite, eternal, and unchangeable. He's the beginning and the end. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. He doesn't change. That's who he is. And remarkably, Jesus, our Redeemer, speaks at the end of the book of Revelation in Revelation 22, verses 12 to 13, and he says this about himself: Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me. To repay each one for what he has done, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. Jesus uses exactly the words from Isaiah 48, 12, I am the first and the last. So Jesus is saying, He is the Lord God Almighty. Then in verse thirteen he demonstrates that he is not only the first and the last, but he is the sovereign creator of all the earth. My hand laid the foundation of the earth, my right hand Spread out the heavens, when I call to them, they stand forth together. So God created everything, but God also rules over everything. This has two important implications for us. What does it mean for us that we are God's people and that the God who is our God is the creator and the ruler over everything? Well, the first thing it means is this. We can absolutely trust the creator and ruler over all creation. And we should trust him above all other powers and authorities. So notice that God says. My right hand spread out the heavens. When I call to them, they stand forth together. Notice the they, right? And then verse 14, assemble all of you and listen, who among them has declared these things? The them and fourteen is the same thing as the they and thirteen, and here's the point, they were worshiping stars. Newspapers. Kids, there used to be these things called newspapers. And they would deliver them to our house. My very first job when I was a kid was delivering newspapers for my older brother Jim's newspaper route. And I would go out at Five o'clock in the morning on a school day on my bike at eleven years old Delivering newspapers. We were folding newspapers in our living room at quarter to five in the morning, and I was out on my bike at like ten after five delivering newspapers. I think it's interesting that the newspapers that we delivered and the newspapers that are actually, believe it or not, still printed today Most of them have a daily horoscope. Here's what the stars are telling you about your day today. Many of them used to have a daily Bible verse, but not anymore. So here was God's people, and they were worshiping the stars, the host of heaven. And God is saying, don't you understand, I stretched them out, I summoned them, they come together at my command, and oh by the way, which of them has ever declared anything? That actually came to pass. You ever read a horoscope? It's so vague as to be meaningless And I I I've known people who like read their horoscope every day, every day, every day, every day, every day. And the 67th day that they read it, something in their life happens that was kind of similar to what was in their horoscope. They're like, it's right there in my horoscope You know. If you give me a handful of darts and I chuck them at the dart board, one of them might hit close to the middle. But God is the sovereign one. So we can absolutely trust him and we should trust him. And here's where it gets a little closer to home. We might not trust in stars, but sometimes we trust in stars. Created powerful, influential people or institutions So we should trust him. And then the second thing is if creation responds to the call of God with obedience, how much more should we? We've not only been created by God, but we've been called by God, named by God, redeemed by God, if the stars were made to worship So will I. Right? Um The eternal, powerful, and sovereign God has worked deliverance for his people. And in this passage, he's calling us to pay attention, to see who he is, to see what he's done, to see what he's going to do, and to respond with hearing. And trusting and following. So he's the creator. He's also the deliverer. Verses 14 to 16 talk about the past deliverance out of Egypt. And then the future deliverance out of Babylon. God did deliver his people out of Egypt, and he would be delivering his people out of Babylon through Cyrus, who's been talked about in these several chapters. That's why this is kind of a unit of like the the chapters about Cyrus. But at the end of verse sixteen, there is a line that speaks of more than Cyrus. Verse 16. So in verse 15, God says, I, even I, have spoken and called him. I have brought him and he will prosper in his way. But then there's a shift in verse 16. Draw near to me, hear this. That's a cue that God's telling us something more significant, like, hey, hey, here's something bigger. From the beginning I have not spoken in secret. From the time it came to be, I have been there And now the Lord God has sent me and his Spirit. This is just a hint, but just wait till we get to 49. It's going to start singing more in the first person. This is Jesus, the servant, promised in Isaiah. And one of the keys here is he has sent, the Lord God has sent me and his servant, or has sent me in the power of his spirit. And that's not true of Cyrus. The Holy Spirit might have used Cyrus, but didn't empower Cyrus to bring redemption of this sort. The first servant song that we looked at back in Isaiah 42. Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my chosen in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit on him. He will bring forth justice to the nation. So the spirit-empowered one is the Messiah, is the greater than Cyrus servant. When Jesus began his earthly ministry in the synagogue in Nazareth in Luke 4, he read from Isaiah 61, he read this: the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed Messiah, me, to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives in the opening of prison. to those who are bound. So the the first person voice and the connection with the Spirit Tells us that verse 16 is hinting us toward one who's greater than Cyrus as we transition out of Cyrus and into the book that starts with chapter 49 is more explicitly about Christ. So, so far, we've been given three really good reasons to listen to God. Sometimes kids like asking why questions. Any of you kids at the age where you're asking why, or any of you parents have kids who are in the why phase? Yeah. Okay. It doesn't last forever. But you know, the first thing God says is, listen to me. Why? Well, you're Jacob and you're Israel, whom I have called, and I am he, the first and the last. So the first reason why we should listen to God is who God is in and of himself. He's the one true God, he's the first and the last. That alone is enough reason to listen to him. Okay, but why? Second reason, who he is in creation. He's the one who created everything. He's the one who rules over everything, over the heavens and the earth. Okay, but why? Well, he's the one who's worked deliverance for his people and who is working salvation for his people. That's why. And if those three reasons aren't good enough for you, well you can just jump ahead to the last verse of our section and read that one for yourself. Because you're not going to find peace anywhere else but in him. So God is who he is in himself, God is who he is in creation, God is who he is in deliverance and salvation, calls us to attend to his word. But he's more gracious than that. He actually tells us the benefits of listening to his word. He deserves to be listened to But he's so gracious that when we listen to him, it benefits us. Verse 17, thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, I am the Lord your God, who teaches you to profit. Now that line does not mean that God gives you really great stock tips. so that you can figure out how to become rich. There are people who actually take that line that way. Say, well God teaches you to profit. They'll take it out of its context and say, if you follow these biblical principles, you will be wealthy. No, that's not what he's saying. What he's saying is his teachings benefit you. And he actually tells us immediately following how it benefits you. By expressing what his people missed out on when they wouldn't listen to him. So he puts it in the negative, but it's telling us what we get when we listen to him. He teaches us to our prophet. What kind of prophet? Listen to verse 18. Oh, that you had paid attention to my commandments, then your peace would have been like a river. And your righteousness like the waves of the sea. I give five bonus points to anyone who can connect that to a hymn we say. Your peace like a river, and your righteousness like the waves of a sea, and your offspring would have been like the sand, and your descendants like its grains. Their name would never be cut off or destroyed from before me. So here's the prophet. Three things. One, peace like a river, righteousness like the waves of the sea, and offspring like sand, who remain part of God's people forever. In the Bible, peace and righteousness go together. You can't have one without the other. Now another song is in my head. Okay. Peace and righteousness. Now here's the thing. Most people want peace. They would say, yes, let me have some peace. Give me peace. Righteousness? Nah. That sounds a little boring. Can I just get the peace without the righteousness? Eh, I don't want to be too good. Well, God gives them together. And they're both a blessing. Say a couple passages where God puts them together. One of them is one of my favorite descriptions of the work of Christ on the cross that's found in the Psalms. It's in Psalm eighty-five. Psalm eighty-five, verses nine to eleven. Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him, that glory may dwell in our land. Steadfast love and righteousness meet. Sorry, steadfast love and faithfulness meet. Righteousness and peace kiss each other. Faithfulness springs up from the ground and righteousness looks down from the sky. And I believe that is a picture, a poetic image of what was fulfilled at the cross. At the cross of Jesus Christ, the chesed of God, his heart for his people, his faithfulness, his unwavering commitment to keep his promises met together as righteousness and peace. Kissed each other. How did they do so? Because Jesus Himself, in Himself, on the cross, fulfilled all righteousness and made peace. through his blood shed on the cross. He fulfilled all righteousness. He obeyed his father to the full, so that what was accomplished for us is a full, a perfect, a complete righteousness. That can then be given to us as a gift. And peace was made by his blood shed to take away all of our sins. If you want peace with God, first of all, back up, if you want peace, you have to have peace with God That's enough people get to that point, like, oh, I don't know. I just want peace. Well, God's your creator and your sustainer. It's kind of like saying, I want to have a happy home life. Okay, then let's work on your marriage relationship with your spouse. No, no, no, I don't like that person. I just want to have a happy home life Doesn't work. So God, you have to if you want peace, you have to have peace with God. If you want peace with God, you have to be righteous before God. Because God is not going to make peace with a sinful rebel who's still in their sin and their rebellion. God's not going to invite, think about it, God's not going to invite rebellious sinners who Trashed this creation into the new creation unchanged because it would be paradise for about five minutes And then we'd mess up that one too. So if we want peace, we need righteousness. If we want peace, we need peace with God. If we want peace from God, we're going to need righteousness from God. Isaiah 32. gives us a picture of how the the reign of King Jesus will bring eternal blessing to his people. In Isaiah 32 we read, then justice will dwell in the wilderness. And righteousness abide in the fruitful field. And the effect, the effect of righteousness will be peace. And the result of righteousness, quietness, and trust forever. My people will abide in a peaceful habitation. in secure dwellings and in quiet resting places. The effect of righteousness will be peace. We've been given this righteousness in Christ so that we are counted as righteous and we have peace with God. That's our standing. That's what He's called us. Sometimes we call that justification. By the way, if you want to know the distinction, if you've ever wondered about the distinction between justification and sanctification and glorification. I'm about to explain them to you, but you could also talk to any of the youth who were at Wednesday's youth group because that was the lesson. So, God imputes to us the righteousness of Christ. He declares that we are forgiven, we are justified, we have peace with God, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. But then the Holy Spirit works the righteousness of Christ into our hearts and our lives so that we grow in Christ's likeness. We grow in being more righteous, not just being counted as righteous, but actually in being more righteous. Not with our own righteousness, but with the righteousness of Christ that was imputed to us. Now being worked into our lives by the Holy Spirit, and we grow in righteousness, we call that sanctification. One day Jesus will return. And we will see him face to face. And on that day, we will be completely transformed so that inside and out, through and through, we will be as Jesus is in his humanity. We will be glorified. There will be no more sin. There will be perfect peace forever. God has made peace by giving us righteousness. God gives us peace more and more as we grow in righteousness, and one day we will be perfectly righteous and we will experience nothing but peace forever. Amen. These two go together, and they're given to us in Christ. Peace of the world, it's temporary. It's conditional at best. How many times? What do what what do uh middle class, upper middle class Americans do when we want some peace? Well, we might turn on the television and just zone out for a little bit, binge watch something. It numbs our minds at least. We forget about stuff. Or we might just have some comfort food and overeat to the point where we put ourselves into a food coma and we don't really need to think about anything for a while. Or we might go on vacation. What happens when you go on vacation You have a great time and you come back from your vacation. And then you say, I think I need another vacation. Because whatever, like whatever worldly peace we can get, it's temporary, it's conditional at best, it's always incomplete. But the benefits which God gives to us Are eternal. They are fixed in the heavens. And we're given righteousness and peace, and we're also given this family. The third blessing was offspring forever. Now that doesn't necessarily mean that you're going to have a whole ton of children. But it means that you become part of a family, the family of God that is abundant and thriving. And this is shown this is shown in history when what happened after Jesus made peace through his blood shed on the cross And then was declared to be the Son of God with power by his resurrection from the dead, and he took his seat at the right hand of God the Father. Then he poured out the Holy Spirit, and three thousand people were added to the family of God in one day and within one generation the gospel had brought in tens of thousands hundreds of thousands Of children of God as far west as Spain, as far east as India, as far south as Ethiopia. From Rome and Greece and Turkey and Egypt and all over within one generation, this a proliferation of the family of God. And now Now, all over the world, there are millions and millions of people who know the Lord, who know that peace, and who are part of that family. Now, the next part of our passage is a call from God to go out from Babylon and to flee from Chaldea. And in calling his people to do this, he reminds them of how he provided for his people in the Exodus. So verses 20 and 21, go out from Babylon, flee from Chaldea, declare this with a shout of joy, proclaim it. Send it out to the end of the earth. Say, the Lord has redeemed his servant Jacob. They did not thirst when he led them through the deserts. He made water flow for them from the rock. He split the rock, and the water gushed out. So God's reminding his people of how he provided for his people during the Exodus because Well in advance of their even going into Babylon, he's calling them to respond and come out of Babylon. Now that may seem like a weird thing, but here we need to understand people or people and history happened. So, 586, Jerusalem is destroyed, the temple is destroyed, the last of the exiles taken off into Babylon. There were some people left in the land, but the land was greatly diminished. When the first exiles were first taken away into Babylon, the one thing they wanted more than anything else was to go home, to go back to their homeland. The false prophets came along and said, Oh, you're going to go back soon. It's going to be short-lived this exile, because at least at that time when the first exiles were taken, like Daniel and Uh Ezekiel, the temple was still standing. So they would say, Hey, the temple of the Lord is still standing. The Lord's never going to let his temple be destroyed. You're going to be restored. Well then the temple got destroyed and everybody else was sent out, but they were still saying, Oh, it's going to be soon, we're going to go back soon. But only Ezekiel and Jeremiah had been faithful enough to tell God's people the truth, and that is this is going to be a long exile. You're going to be here for 70 years. Seventy years go by, and guess what? It's a whole lot harder to leave Babylon when you've been there for 70 years. You've grown used to the place. It begins to feel like home. You've built houses, you've planted vineyards, all things that actually God told them to do, but Babylon feels like home. And now the Promised Land feels like some place your parents told you about that you yourself have never actually lived in, that is far away and isn't even real, and there would be a lot of work that would have to be done And do we really want to go through all that hassle? God says, go out from Babylon. Live in the promised land. And that call is still for us. We may live in the world, but the world is still Babylon. And we need to make sure that our hearts don't belong to the world. Psalm 84 speaks of how blessed are those whose hearts are set on pilgrimage. To have a pilgrim's heart, to say, this is the land of my sojourn, this is the land of my exile, I am pressing on toward my true and eternal home. My promised land is yet to come. My heart will be there. Jesus said, don't lay up for yourself treasures on earth. Lay up for yourself treasures in heaven, because where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Our hearts need to be fixed on where God is taking us. Don't get too complacent here in Babylon. And God provides for us in the same way that He's always provided for His people. Because not only is there just a truth that God provided for the people during the Exodus, but there's also a profound truth in how God provided for the people in the Exodus. What does verse 21 say? He made water flow for them from the rock When he split the rock and the water gushed out. This is not only saying God did provide for them, but it's also giving us a picture of how God provides for us 1 Corinthians 10 tells us the rock actually followed them so that they would have water to drink wherever they went. There was always the rock, and it was always providing fresh water wherever they went. And 1 Corinthians 10 says more than that, the rock which followed them was Christ. This is why Moses was told to strike the rock. Do you remember how many times he was told to strike the rock? Once. Strike the rock once. And the water will flow. After that, you just need to speak to the rock, and the water will flow. That's why when he struck the rock again he got into big trouble because It's a picture of Christ. Christ is the rock of our salvation. He was struck once on the cross. And after he was struck once on the cross, he poured out, what did he pour out? The Holy Spirit. Jesus talked about this, by the way. I'm not just making this up. In John chapter 7, Jesus did this. On the last day of the feast, this is the feast of Passover, and Jesus is the Passover lamb. On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, If anyone thirst, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus had not yet been glorified. In other words, Jesus had not yet been struck So they didn't have the Holy Spirit in the same way they would after he was struck. So out of the sacrifice of Christ comes the Holy Spirit. And because Christ lives in our hearts by faith, the rock lives in our hearts by faith, this living water not only flows for us, but also from us. and out to the world. So here's here's the picture. How does God provide for us? God provides for us by the Holy Spirit. He lives in us. He refreshes our souls, but then he also flows out from us so that we can refresh one another's souls. This is why all the one another commands In the New Testament, love one another, encourage one another, bless one another, build one another up. The living water flows, refreshes us, and then we refresh one another. And then from us it flows out to the world, to a world that is thirsty and needs to know the Lord. We get this because of Christ and because He was He was split open on the cross for us. God's given us everything we need in Christ. He's given us peace. He's given us righteousness. He's given us deliverance. He's given us refreshment. He's given us eternal life. He's given us so many reasons to give thanks to him and so many reasons to trust him and to follow him. But if we will not, listen, you need to hear this. If you will not If you will say this stuff is boring, this stuff has nothing to do with my life, I want what the world is offering, I'm going to go for that. Maybe I'll deal with God later in my life. If you will not trust God. You need to hear verse 22. There is no peace, says the Lord, for the wicked. There is no peace. I think that when I was a teenager and a young adult I thought the world was full of really smart people who had answers to all of the really important questions in life. Now that I'm fifty, I look around and I realize they don't have any answers. They're groping around in the dark trying to figure out what might work, and most of it's not really working all that well The world doesn't have any. There is no peace. This is not like, don't hear this as some sort of thundering hellfire and brimstone survey. It's just a statement of reality. There is no peace for the wicked. Because there's no peace apart from peace with God and peace from God. And there's no peace with God, there's no peace from God apart from the righteousness which gives it in Jesus Christ. So come to Christ And if you believe in Christ, we have a responsibility. We have an invitation, a joyful invitation, and a responsibility to listen to God's word to our own benefit and to the benefit of those around us, to be those who receive and who share in the blessings by the power of the Holy Spirit. Real lasting peace, perfect, unimpeachable righteousness, eternal deliverance from bondage to sin and death, restoration to our eternal home with Him, a future and a hope that cannot be lost. And the refreshing provision we need to persevere in faith through the work of the Holy Spirit in us and through us. Let us press on in trusting Christ. And let us rejoice and give thanks that God has so abundantly provided for us because we didn't do it for ourselves. It's all been given. Will you receive and will you live? Trusting him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you have been so good to us in Jesus. The world wants peace but can't find it. Because it's looking in all the wrong places. We sometimes want peace and can't find it because we are looking in all the wrong places. You've given us everything we need in Jesus. And you call us to come to you, to listen to you, to follow you, to trust in you, to live for you. Let us not set our hearts on Babylon, but on our true and eternal home. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.