Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church We're getting to know our Savior better by walking our way through the Gospels and praying our way through the Psalms. The Psalms in many ways are the prayer book of Jesus. They show us the heart of Christ. The Gospels show us the life and teaching and ministry of Christ. And the Gospels and the Psalms show us the heart of Christ. Today we're in Matthew 27, verses 1 to 23, and we're asking this Very difficult question as we consider Judas. And the question is, can we just change our minds and repent whenever we want to? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love, your grace, your mercy. You are our hope, our salvation, our strength, our joy, our peace, day by day. Speak to us through this passage in Matthew 27. Convict us and change us by the power of your Holy Spirit into the likeness of your Son. In His name we pray. Amen. Okay, so Matthew twenty-seven, verses one to twenty-three. When morning came, All the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death, and they bound him and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate the governor Then when Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus was condemned, he changed his mind and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders, saying I have sinned by betraying innocent blood. They said, What is that to us? See to it yourself. And throwing down the pieces of silver into the temple He departed and he went and hanged himself. But the chief priests, taking the pieces of silver, said, It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is blood money So they took counsel and brought and bought with them the potter's field as a burial place for strangers. Therefore that field has been called the field of blood to this day Then was fulfilled what had been spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price on him on whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel. and they gave them for the potter's field as the Lord directed me. Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus said, You have said so. But when he was accused by the chief priests and the elders, he gave no answer. Then Pilate said to him, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you? but he gave him no answer, not even to a single charge, so that the governor was greatly amazed. Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for the crowd any one prisoner whom they wanted. And they had then a notorious prisoner called Barabbas. So when they had gathered, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want to release you whom do you want me to release for you, Barabbas or Jesus, who is called Christ? For he knew that it was out of envy that they had delivered him up. Besides, while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent word to him, Have nothing to do with that righteous man, for I have suffered much because of him today in a dream. Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus. The governor again said to them, Which of the two do you want me to release for you? And they said, Barabbas Pilate said to them, Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? They all said, Let him be crucified. And he said, why, what evil has he done? But they shouted all the more, let him be crucified. Judas was greedy, a thief. He had taken on the role of treasurer for the disciples of Jesus and used to steal from what was put in the money bag. We're told that in John 12, 6. Jesus undoubtedly knew this and let Judas continue in his sin without confronting him. As Judas continued thieving, he became hardened in his sin. Toward the end of Jesus' earthly ministry, Judas loudly complained about Mary's extravagant sacrifice of oil poured out on Jesus. This is in John 12, verses 5 and 6. Ultimately, shortly after making this complaint, Judas made a deal with the Jewish leaders to betray Jesus to them for 30 pieces of silver. Judas almost immediately regretted what he had done. He knew it was wrong, so he tried to return the money. While he had changed his mind and was now filled with regret, he was unable to undo his actions. More importantly, he was also unable to truly repent. and find forgiveness and restoration in despair over his sin, Judas went and hung himself. Judas's case is not a unique one. Hebrews tells us that Esau greatly regretted having sold his birthright for a bowl of stew. But unlike Judas, like Judas rather, Esau was unable to repent. He found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears, Hebrews 12. 17 tells us. Many people think they will enjoy their sin now and repent of it later, when they get older, closer to death. Not only is such thinking arrogant and offensive to God, but it is also foolishly deadly. You are not guaranteed the ability to repent and turn to the Lord ever You are not the master of your own heart. Only the Lord can grant life and repentance. So if the Lord is prompting you, If his spirit is moving in your heart to turn and trust in him, do it today. 2 Corinthians 6. 2 says, Behold, now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. Heavenly Father, if there is anyone hearing this. who is putting off repentance and faith until a more convenient time, until they're older, until they're ready. I pray that your Holy Spirit would bring them to full conviction and conversion, that you would grant them repentance and life. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we're going to turn our attention today now in the Psalms to Psalm 62. Psalm 62 is written to the choirmaster according to Jeduthin. It's the Psalm of David. For God alone my soul waits in silence. From him comes my salvation. He alone is my rock and my salvation. My fortress, I shall not be greatly shaken How long will all of you attack a man, to batter him, like a leaning wall, a tottering fence? They only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence, for my hope is from Him. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be shaken On God rests my salvation and my glory. My mighty rock, my refuge is God. Trust in Him at all times, O people. Pour out your heart before Him. God is a refuge to us. Those of low estate are but a breath. Those of high estate are a delusion. In the balances, they go up. Together they are lighter than a breath. Put no trust in extortion. Set no vain hopes on robbery. If riches increase, set not your heart on them Once God has spoken, twice I have heard this, that power belongs to God, and that to you, O Lord, belongs steadfast love, for you will render to a man according to his work. Let's pray. Oh Lord, you alone are our salvation, our fortress, our deliverer You alone are the one who is full and overflowing with steadfast love to redeem us. We are tempted to live in the fear of man. We are tempted to regard people more urgently and more importantly in our lives than you, to be people pleasers, to be people pacifiers. rather than to have our eyes fixed on you and your will and to do what you've called us to do. We're also tempted to put our hope in riches in wealth, how much we have in our retirement account, what our stock portfolio looks like, how much income we're earning. Father, you are our God. You are our deliverer May we trust in you and you alone. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you, and I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.