Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church Our third day of week 12 brings us to Matthew 26, verses 1 through 25. The plot is thickening toward the crucifixion of Jesus, and we're asking this question. Can we trust Jesus when things don't look good? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you that you are the sovereign Lord over all. Teach us from your word today, that we might learn from you, that we might walk with you, that we might trust in you. In every circumstance of life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 26, 1 to 25. When Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to his disciples, You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified Then the chief priests and the elders of the people gathered in the palace of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas, and plotted together in order to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him. But they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people. Now, when Jesus was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper A woman came up to him with an alabaster flask of very expensive ointment, and she poured it on his head as he reclined at table. And when the disciples saw it they were indignant, saying, Why this waste? For this could have been sold for a large sum and given to the poor. But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why do you trouble the woman? For she has done a beautiful thing to me For you always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me. In pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial Truly I say to you, wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will also be told in memory of her. Then one of the twelve, whose name was Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests and said, What will you give me if I deliver him over to you? And they paid him thirty pieces of silver, and from that moment he sought an opportunity to betray him. Now the Passover The first day of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus saying, Where will you have us prepare for you to eat the Passover? He said, Go into the city to a certain man, and say to him, The teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples. And the Passover's And the disciples did, as Jesus had directed him, and they prepared the Passover. When it was evening, he reclined at table with the twelve. And as they were eating, he said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me. And they were very sorrowful, and began to say to him, one after another, Is it I, Lord? He answered, He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me. The Son of Man goes, as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed, it would have been better for that man if he had not been born. Judas, who would betray him, answered, Is it I, Rabbi? He said to him, You have said so. Both Matthew and Mark tell us something specific, clear, and surprising about Jesus' crucifixion The religious leaders who conspired to have Jesus executed did not want it to be done during Passover or in public. They feared an uproar from the people. But Jesus told his disciples ahead of time that this is exactly what was going to happen. How do we respond when our plans start falling apart and things aren't going the way we thought they would or should? What do we do when things just aren't looking good? Are we tempted to doubt God, to try to handle things on our own, or to be angry with God? Maybe we think that if we feel like things are spiraling out of control, God must have either lost control or turned against us. The crucifixion of Jesus shows us very clearly that all our doubt and angst is misguided. God is indeed always in control, and he is always doing what is best for his people. Jesus saw the whole plan of redemption conceived before the world was created, unfolding exactly on schedule, his disciples did not understand anything that was happening. Some of what Jesus said confused them. The actions of Mary in anointing him with expensive ointments seemed like a waste, especially to Judas the thief, who would help himself to what was in the money bag. But the disciples had no idea who would betray him or why. Through it all, Jesus was calm, resolute, and in full command, even as he marched toward his own death. Our anxiety, fear, doubt, and anger all reveal something very clear. We are not God, but sometimes we wish we were. When we have those feelings, we need to confess our lack of faith and ask the Lord for the grace to trust him and let him rule. in our lives. That's what we can draw from today's passage when things are not going the way we want them to. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 59. Things were not going the way David wanted them to. In Psalm 59, he wrote this to the choir master, according to do not destroy a micdom of David, when Saul sent men to watch his house in order to kill him. Deliver me from my enemies, O my God. Protect me from those who rise up against me Deliver me from those who work evil, and save me from bloodthirsty men. For behold, they lie in wait for my life. Fierce men stir up strife against me. For no transgression or sin of mine, O Lord, for no fault of mine, they run and make ready. Awake Come to meet me and see. You, Lord God of hosts, our God of Israel, rouse yourself to punish all the nations, spare none of those who treacherously plot evil. Salah Each evening they come back, howling like dogs, and prowling about the city. There they are, bellowing with their mouths, with swords in their lips, for who, they think, will hear us? But you, O Lord, laugh at them. You hold all the nations in derision. O my strength, I will watch for you, for you, O God, are my fortress. My God, in his steadfast love, will meet me. God will let me look in triumph on my enemies. Kill them not, lest my people forget. Make them totter by your power, and bring them down, O Lord, our shield. For the sin of their mouth, the words of their lips, let them be trapped in their pride For the cursing and lies that they utter consume them in wrath, consume them till they are no more, that they may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth Each evening they come back howling like dogs and prowling about the city. They wander about for food and growl if they do not get their fill. But I will sing of your strength. I will sing aloud of your steadfast love in the morning, for you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress. O my strength, I will sing praises to you. For you, O God, are my fortress, the God who shows me steadfast. Now there's a great psalm for us to pray when Satan and circumstances and our own flesh are just ravaging us with doubt and anxiety. Think of these words. I will sing of your strength, I will sing aloud of your steadfast love. You have been a fortress to me. O my strength, I will praise you. O my strength, I will watch for you, for you, O God, are my fortress. Let's pray pray. Heavenly Father, we are never outside of your sovereign hand of control. You are God indeed, our strength, whose steadfast love never fails, our shield, our fortress. the one who who rules over your people to the ends of the earth. Help us to trust you. When things look scary, when things feel unsettled and uncertain, when we are doubting. When we are being choked in our souls by anxiety, may our faith be in you. May our trust be in you. May our hope be in you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me as we're once again walking through the Gospels with Jesus. I hope you can join me again tomorrow, and as always, I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.