Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is the fourth day of our seventh week, and that brings us into Matthew 14. We're going to be looking at verses 1 to 21 today and asking this question. Can we foresee the consequences of our actions? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for the gift and blessing it is to be able to gather together and Study your word day by day. We pray that you would write your word in our hearts. Grow us to be more like Jesus, our Savior. It's in His name we pray. Amen. Matthew 14, verses 1 to 21. At that time Herod the Tetrarch heard about the fame of Jesus. And he said to his servants, This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead, and this is why these miraculous powers are at work in him. for Herod had seized John and bound him and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because John had been saying to him, It is not lawful for you to have her. And though he wanted to put him to death, he feared the people because they held him to be a prophet. But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before the company and pleased Herod. so that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. Prompted by her mother, she said, Give me the head of John the Baptist here on a platter And the king was sorry. But, because of his oaths and his guests, he commanded it to be given. He sent and had John beheaded in the prison And his head was brought in on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. And his disciples came and took the body and buried it, and they went and told Jesus. Now, when Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by himself. But when the crowds heard it, they followed him on foot from the towns. When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and had compassion on them, and healed their sick. Now when it was evening, the disciples came to him and said, This is a desolate place For the day and the day is now over. Send the crowds away into the villages and buy food for themselves. But Jesus said, They need not go away. You give them something to eat. They said to him, We have only five loaves here and two fish. And he said, Bring them here to me. Then he ordered the crowds to sit down on the grass, and taking the five loaves and two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds, and they all ate and were satisfied. and they took up twelve baskets full of the broken pieces left over. And those who were there, those who ate, were about five thousand men, besides women and children. Poor Herod. Now those may say like odd words for the guy who had John the Baptist beheaded. His father had ordered the slaughter of the babies in Bethlehem, but for some reason I always feel kind of sorry for Herod in this situation. Maybe it's because I've made my own foolish choices and had to face consequences far too many times for dumb things I've said or dumb impulsive things I've done. Herod was a man who had given himself to sensuality. And he ended up being manipulated into murdering an innocent man, a man he actually admired. We never know what consequences our actions may have. for the good or for the bad. When we give ourselves to a certain sin, sensuality, greed, envy, covetousness, pride, it often leads to others that we may never have chosen otherwise Solomon's desire for foreign wives led the wise builder of the temple into idolatry. David's neglect of his duty to the army as king, his lazy self-indulgence, led to adultery and murder Thankfully, the same unforeseen consequences are true in a good direction too. We don't know how our faithful actions of obedience will be used by God. In the story that immediately follows the execution of John the Baptist, the disciples were told by Jesus to feed a crowd of thousands. The problem is they only had five loaves and two fish. How could they feed so many with so little? Bring them here to me, Jesus says in verse 18. Jesus' words are simple and direct. And the disciples obeyed. And the result was powerful, amazing, literally miraculous, a word we throw around far too much. So the question for us seems simple enough, though it is much more difficult than we can even imagine. Will we give ourselves to sin? Or will we bring whatever we have and give it to Jesus? Will we seek to run our own lives our way and serve our own desires, our own selfishness, or will we surrender everything to Christ? And let him take our meager resources and multiply them for his glory. Well, let's turn now to Psalm 34. This is such a beautiful psalm. I'm going to read this and then we'll pray based on it. It's a psalm of David when he changed his behavior before Abimelech so that he drove him out and he went away. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul makes its boast in the Lord. Let the humble hear and be glad. Oh Magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord, and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears. Those who look to him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him and delivers them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. O fear the Lord, you his saints, for those who fear him have no lack. The young lions suffer want and hunger, but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing. Come, O children, listen to me. I will teach you the fear of the Lord What man is there who desires life and loves many days that he may see good? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit, turn away from evil, and do good Seek peace and pursue it. The eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry. The face of the Lord is against those who do evil. to cut off the memory of them from the earth. When the righteous cry for help, the Lord hears and delivers them out of all their troubles. The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. He keeps all his bones. Not one of them is broken. Affliction will slay the wicked. Those who hate the righteous will be condemned. The Lord redeems the life of his servants. None of those who take refuge in him will be condemned. Let's pray. O Lord, by your grace, we have tasted and seen that you are good. May your praise be continually on our lips and in our hearts. May we learn the lesson from our passage in Matthew 14, and turn away from evil and seek good and pursue it. May we not give our lips to deceitfulness or boasting or flattery because we do not know what the long-term consequences of those things may be. Sin leads to more sin, to sorrow and consequences that are far beyond our control. Let us seek peace and pursue it. The Prince of Peace, the Lord Jesus Christ, is the one we need. He is the refuge of those who will never be condemned. When we hide ourselves in Him, help us to trust you that if we fear you, we lack no good thing. Because you are faithful. Lord Jesus, you surround your people. And you protect us. You provide for us. You are good to us. Let us live by faith and not for our flesh. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me on our fourth day of our seventh week of Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And I do hope, as always, that you have a blessed day in the Lord.