Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I'm fresh off of a youth retreat weekend that was really fun and really enriching and really exhausting. But here we are for week 17 of our journey through the Heidelberg Catechism together, and we come to question 47. We're considering the ascension of Christ. to heaven. And uh we're going to be dealing with an important question here with 47 today. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your love for us. For your faithfulness to us. Thank you for this Heidelberg Catechism, this wonderful gift that you've given in your providence to the church to help us understand Scripture, to help us understand the essence of our Christian faith and the hope that we have and the comfort that we find in the gospel. Please be our teacher as we go through question 47. As we look to your word, as we think about Jesus more deeply, we pray that you would help us and grow us in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. All right. So we are in the section of the Heidelberg Catechism that deals with the Apostles' Creed. We're working our way through it little by little. It's kind of the largest section of the Heidelberg Catechism as we're dealing with the essence of the Christian faith. So question 23 is where we began this section. What are these articles, the articles of the Christian faith? Answer, I believe in God the Father Almighty Creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary Suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried, he descended into hell. On the third day he arose from the dead. He ascended into heaven, and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life. So today we are in the sixth of the twelve articles of the Apostles' Creed. He ascended into heaven. We began this on Friday when we asked question 46. What do you confess when you say he ascended into heaven? And our answer then that we looked at was that Christ, before the eyes of his disciples, was taken up from earth. into heaven, and that he is there for our benefit until he comes again to judge the living and the dead. So Christ has left this world. He's ascended into heaven. He sits at the right hand of God the Father. He's there in heaven for our benefit. And he's going to come again to judge the living and the dead. Well, that raises a question. Is Christ then not with us until the end of the world as he has promised us? That's what question 47 asks. The answer is that Christ is true man and true God. With respect to his human nature, He is no longer on earth, but with respect to his divinity, majesty, grace, and spirit, he is never absent from us. That's question 47. By the way, we're not going to get into this in detail today, but one of the implications of understanding the two natures of Christ as as outlined here in question 47, that Christ is true man and true God, and that his human nature is no longer on earth, but that his divinity, majesty, grace, and spirit is never absent from us. We have to make that distinction between the attributes of Christ's human nature and the attributes of his divine nature, even though he is one person with these two natures. One of the implications of this is that Christ is not physically present. in the Lord's Supper. We believe in the real spiritual presence of Christ in the Lord's Supper but not his physical presence, because his physical presence is at the right hand of God the Father, because his physical presence belongs to his human nature. God is a spirit and doesn't have a body as we do. Christ as a human being has a body and his human body is seated at the right hand of God the Father. He's no longer, he is no longer on earth But he promised. He promised. Does the ascension break the promise that Jesus made right before he ascended? Matthew 28, 18-20, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father. and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Jesus said, I am with you always. And he meant it. He is with us always, not physically, not in his human nature. But he is with us. His human nature, he said in John 16, 28, I come, I came from the Father. I have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father. And then the next chapter, 1728, in his high priestly prayer, he says, and I am no longer in the world. but they are in the world, and I am coming to you, Holy Father. Keep them in your name, which you have given me. that they may be one even as we are one. So here's Jesus first in chapter 16 talking to his disciples saying, I came, now I'm leaving. And then praying to his father, I'm no longer in the world. And so this is true. Jesus left the world. And so his human nature is no longer in the world. Well then how is it that he's with us always to the end of the age? Well he told us he told the disciples that Even a couple chapters prior, on that same night, in that same teaching, he told them how it was that he would be present with them even as he was leaving them. John 14, verses 16 to 19. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper. to be with you forever, even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him. For he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans, I will come to you Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me, because I live, you also will live. The Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Truth, is this another helper sent by the Father and the Son. to God's people, and it is in the coming of the Holy Spirit to a believer that Jesus comes to the believer. I will not leave you as orphans, I will come to you. In the coming of the Spirit, in the giving of the Spirit, in the indwelling of the Holy Spirit for every believer, Christ is with us forever. We are not orphans. We don't see him because it's not his physical presence, but it's his spiritual presence, and in this way, he can be spiritually present with all believers all throughout the world and throughout all time. And because Christ is alive, we live in Christ, and Christ lives in us by the power of the Holy Spirit. We live in Christ, Christ lives in us. He lives, we live. We are not alone, we are not abandoned. And that's also how Jesus could promise in Matthew 18, 20, for where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am among them. Because the Spirit lives in each one of us. And Jesus says, and when you gather together in my name, I'm there. I'm always with you, but I'm there even more powerfully. to move and to act, to bring comfort and to bring discipline. This is actually in the context of dealing with church discipline issues. to bring rebuke, to bring encouragement, to strengthen you by the Holy Spirit who acts among us. So Did Jesus leave the world? Absolutely. Is he coming again? Yes, that means something. He's not in the world physically anymore. But that doesn't mean we're alone. We're not orphans, and he's with us till the end of the age. So again, our catechism question, question 47. Is Christ then not with us until the end of the world as he has promised us? Answer, Christ is true man and true God. With respect to his human nature, he is no longer on earth, but with respect to his divinity, majesty, grace, and spirit. He is never absent from us. And that brings us gospel comfort. The presence of Christ by the Holy Spirit with, in, and for believers. You're not an orphan. Christ is with you. Let's pray. Father, thank you for sending your spirit. Lord Jesus, thank you that you have not left us alone. You've not abandoned us. You're with us. You've come to us. You are with us and for us forever. Even as we long to see you physically face to face, we take comfort in your presence with us by your Holy Spirit. Help us to walk with you by faith until we see you by sight. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen It's great great comfort, great gospel truth. Let's respond to it by singing praise to our God. Jesus is The scepter is the throne. Yeah, he is the tr. I am peace of peace. Screws under my sea flight. Jesus out of renation has redeemed us by He is blood all the way. In Sorna he is nearest faith. Felix no cloud from sights. Shall our hearts forget whose promise I am with you. Hallelujah, bread of angels bow on us. I will say I'll do sleep. To be from day today, an Earth redeemed for me when the stones are all See the cross the Christine. Oh no, we all. Thy food school heaven thy throat Thou may have been Rother Shall High Greece. Um, you can't do it.