Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church I am so glad that you have joined us. Today we're going to be learning some wonderful things and thinking about some wonderful things that the death of Christ brings to us and how it benefits us. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Father in heaven, thank you for your truth. Thank you for your Son who is the truth of God in human flesh. Thank you for the salvation that we have in Jesus, our Savior. Please comfort us with your gospel today as we look to you by faith in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, in the Heidelberg Catechism, we've been in the forties, and so this is where you've been the last several days considering the death and burial of Christ. Question 40 from last week. Why was it necessary for Christ to humble himself even unto death? Answer, because of the truth justice and truth of God. satisfaction for our sins could be made in no other way than by the death of the Son of God. And then forty one, why was he buried? Answer His burial testify that he had really died. And then last time we looked at 42, since Christ has died for us, why do we still have to die? And the answer is that our death is not a payment for our sins. But it puts an end to sin and is an entrance into eternal life. That's what we looked at last time. And today we move on to question 43, the last question in this consideration of the death and burial of Christ What further benefit do we receive from Christ's sacrifice and death on the cross? And the answer is, through Christ's death, Our old nature is crucified, put to death, and buried with him, so that the evil desires of the flesh may no longer reign in us. but that we may offer ourselves to him as a sacrifice of thankfulness. So Christ's death directly benefits us. This is more of strong gospel comfort. We are Because we are united to Christ in his death, our old nature, our old man, our old self is crucified, put to death, and buried. That means we no longer need to live under the tyranny of our old nature. The evil desires of the flesh may no longer reign in us. They may abide. They may remain the remnants, but they no longer reign in us. And now we may offer ourselves to him as a sacrifice of thankfulness. Romans 6, 5 to 11 is a great passage for this. For if we have been united with him in a death like his. We shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know. That our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin. Now, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died, he died to sin once for all. But the life he lives, he lives to God So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. This is union with Christ. It's at the core of gospel theology. We have been truly and eternally united to Christ in his death and in his resurrection. And we already experience our union with him in his death, in that our old self is crucified. So that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. That's why it is, our last question we looked at last time, is that when we die, we're freed from the body of sin, because it's already been crucified. And even though the effects and the remnants and the influence remain, we have that guarantee that we'll be raised like him and that the body of sin will be brought to nothing. So for now, we don't need to be enslaved to sin. We're set free from the tyranny of sin. Christ, who is alive, Christ, who reigns over all things, lives in us. And the life that he lives, he now lives in us as well. And so we have that victory in Christ, and we can rest in that victory that we have in Christ. And Colossians 2 brings us the same kind of truth, but using the imagery of circumcision and baptism. Colossians 2 here is saying that The same thing that circumcision pointed to in the old covenant, which is putting off the body of flesh, baptism in the new covenant also points to. And that circumcision of the heart is baptism by the Holy Spirit. And they're both effectual by union with Christ. He says, in him also You were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ. having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God who raised him from the dead So, our union with Christ, symbolized, pictured, promised in water baptism, but actually made effectual by Spirit baptism, is also the circumcision of our hearts Putting off the body of flesh, union with Christ. The next chapter, Colossians 3, says this about us. If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth, for you have died. And your life is hidden with Christ in God. That's a great verse, verse 3 there. When you're feeling whiny and selfish. And whether it's self-pitying or self-indulging or whatever, you just simply say, you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. It's a powerful truth that comes from our union with Christ. You have died. Well, if you have died, what does it mean to live for God? if you have died. And that's our last verse for today is Romans 12, 1-2. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God. To present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God. what is good and acceptable and perfect. So we're to be a living sacrifice as an act of worship. How do we do that? Well, Paul gives us a negative and a positive. The negative is do not be conformed to this world, and the positive is be transformed by the renewal of your mind. That's what it means to die and to live as a living sacrifice. What the world has to say about who we are and what we should be doing and what we should be pursuing, we need to put that off. Don't conform to it. All of that stuff, whether it's coming from, you know, peers or or family members or media, if it's like chase the American dream and make something of yourself or you deserve a break today or live for yourself or You only live once or have it your way or no one else is going to look out for you. Just put all that aside. Don't be conformed to that selfish, selfish pattern of the world, but be transformed. by the renewal of your mind. And then you can discern the will of God. The will of God is for us what is good and acceptable and perfect. Not the lies that the world is selling us. But the will of God as a living sacrifice. So again, our catechism question for today is what further benefit do we receive from Christ's sacrifice and death on the cross? And the answer is that through Christ's death Our old nature is crucified, put to death, and buried with him, so that the evil desires of the flesh may no longer reign in us. but that we may offer ourselves to him as a sacrifice of thankfulness. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for having such love for us that you would send your Son to save us. Holy Spirit, you have united us to Christ by faith, and that means we've been united to him in his death. We have died. And the life we now have is hidden with Christ. We are now living sacrifices, and we are called to offer you spiritual worship by not being conformed to the world, but being transformed by the renewal of our mind. Help us to walk in newness of life today. Help us to set our minds on things above. Help us to Pursue the will of God for our lives, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for another Study in the Heidelberg Catechism, I hope it was a blessing to you, and now we'll respond with a worship song together. I once was lost in darkest night. Yet thought how new the way the sin there from this joy in life And led me to the grave. I had no hope that you know who you will. And if you had none of me first, I would refuse you still but as I read my I help embrace indifference because you looked upon my helplessly and let me The cross in the hell God's love is great. You suffered in my place. You won't arrive return. For me now I know he's a All I hear is Christ. Hallelujah. Jesus is my life. Peace that Now I'll love the yours alone in this all my sea. The strength so far your commands could never come from me. Oh Father, use my red light. In any way choose, oh bother use my red and my life, in any way choose. In the live buttons forever beyond me for me the world.