Good morning and welcome to Advent 2025 Scripture and Carols. Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our second day. Here in this first week, we are focusing on Advent Proper. which is really a longing and a waiting and an expecting for Jesus to come into the world. And so today our Advent Carol is Come, thou long expected Jesus. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son into the world to be our Savior. The world had waited, your people had waited for centuries for Jesus to come. And you sent him into the world to save us, to bring us home. to reconcile us to you. Help us to see this and to appreciate this and to worship Jesus more deeply this Advent season. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Come, thou long expected Jesus. We've got three scripture passages to look at, and then we'll talk about the carol a little bit. Haggai 2 7 And I will shake all nations, so that the treasures of all nations shall come in, and I will fill this house with glory, says the Lord of hosts. Here, through the prophet Haggai, God is promising to do something dramatic, something that he says will shake all nations. And when Jesus comes into the world, we see him shaking Herod, who's king of the Jews. We see him shaking the Roman authorities because they can't control him. We see him shaking up some stargazers from the east who come and offer him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. And he fills this house with glory. When when he's brought into the temple and presented Late in Luke chapter 2, when he when he comes back to the temple at twelve years old, when he comes back to the temple again after he's begun his earthly ministry at 30 years old, the glory of God. in the person of Jesus Christ comes into the temple that was really the prefiguring of Christ. And so here comes Jesus, the glory And the treasures of the nations come in as the gospel goes forward to the world. Jesus, King of the Jews, is Jesus King of the nations, and he brings in Gentiles like us. into his people, into his house, to be part of his kingdom forever. Malachi 3. 1. We have this wonderful prophecy, behold, I send my messenger. and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts Here is the messenger of the covenant, the delight of the people, the Lord, whom the people had sought for centuries, is going to come. He's going to come into the temple. He's going to come. and be with his people and and reveal the glory of God. And this is exactly what Jesus did. The messenger who prepared the way, that's John the Baptist. And then Jesus Himself is the Lord whom you seek. He's also the messenger of the covenant. He's the one through whom The covenant given to Moses was actually received because he is the one who's always the one who brings the Word of God as the Word of God to the people of God. This is wonderful clear prophecy here at the end of Malachi, which is of course the last book of the Old Testament. And so Malachi ends with this promise of coming. And then there's four centuries of silence after Malachi. That's why it's important to understand that the so-called apocryphal books or the inter-testamental books are not scripture. They're not part of God's canon. After the Book of Malachi and before the coming of John the Baptist, there was silence for almost 400 years. There was a long expectation. When will this prophecy be fulfilled? A long expectation. A man who had a long expectation was Simeon. He had waited personally for a long time, and we read his story, he's one of my favorite characters. from the birth of Christ. We read his story in Luke chapter 2, verses 22 to 32. And when the time came for their purification according to the law of Moses, this is when Jesus is about forty days old. They brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it was written in the law of the Lord, every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord, and to offer a sacrifice, according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. This offering, by the way, tells us that Joseph and Mary were poor. They could not afford a lamb. Now there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel And the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him in his arms and blessed him and said, Lord, Now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation. that you have prepared in the presence of all the peoples, a light for revelation to the Gentiles and for glory to your people Israel. What was Simeon waiting for? He was waiting for the consolation of Israel. And it had been told him that he would not see death until he had seen the Lord's Christ. So here comes this 40-day-old baby. This little tiny baby, but he recognizes this one born a little baby is actually born the king that the people had been waiting for for so long. So all of this scripture and more inspired Charles Wesley to write one of his most famous hymns. Charles Wesley is one of the great hymn writers in the history of the English language. He wrote over 6,000 hymns, many of which we still sing today in the church. And Come That Long Expected Jesus, he wrote in 1744, so it's almost 300 years old. And he had seen poverty and spiritual hunger in England. He had seen the the abject poverty of many people living in some of the slums in London, but he had also seen the spiritual hunger. And so this carol emphasizes that Jesus is born to set his people free. not just from political oppression, but also from our fears and our sins. Come thou long-expected Jesus, born to set thy people free. From our fears and sins release us. Let us find our rest in thee. Israel's strength and consolation. Hope of all the earth thou art, dear desire of every nation, joy of every longing heart. Born thy people to deliver, born a child and yet a king, born to reign in us forever, now thy gracious kingdom bring. By thine own eternal spirit, rule in all our hearts alone. By thine all-sufficient merit, raise us to thy glorious throne. What a wonderful Carol. Let's pray together Heavenly Father, thank you for bringing us the one who is Israel's strength and consolation, who is the dear desire of every nation, who is the one who's come to set us free from sin and fear, from death and oppression. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for coming for us. We know that you are coming again. Help us to live by faith in what you accomplished for us in your first coming, even as we look forward in hope to what you will accomplish for us in your second coming. We thank you and praise you, Lord God, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for our second day of Advent Devotionals. I hope they're a blessing to you. We're now going to hear Come thou long expected Jesus. Come valus for sess thy peace. From our fears and Jesus, let us find our rest. De stress strength and conservation for the Thou art dear of every nation, joy of everyone. Nambaster. My no sufficient raises to thy glorious throne. This is I know me so I don't spend all my No sufficient merry raises to the glorious throne.