Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbytery. It is good to be with you as we wrap up our 18th week together, and we're really in a beautiful section of the Apostles' Creed. as we're in the glorification of Christ, and we've been thinking for several devotionals now about Christ's ascension into heaven and his sitting at the right hand of God the Father. And today we're going to come to the next line, which is He's coming again to judge the living and the dead. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your goodness to us. Thank you for such a wonderful Savior that we have in Jesus Christ our Lord. Please help us to follow after our Savior and long for that day when we see you face to face. In Jesus' name. Amen. Heidelberg, Catechism, question number 23 is where we started this long section on the Apostles' Creed. What are the articles of our Christian faith? Answer, I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified dead and buried, he descended into hell On the third day he arose from the dead, he ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. And then today we're dealing with Article 7. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body. and the life everlasting. So today, question 52 is what our focus is today. It's going to be on Article 7. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. But first let's review what we've been through. Question 50. Why is it added and sits at the right hand of God? Answer, Christ ascended into heaven to manifest himself there as head of his church through whom the Father governs all things. And then last time we looked at this, how does the glory of Christ, our head, benefit us? That's question 51. First, by his Holy Spirit, he pours out heavenly gifts upon us his members. Second, by his power, he defends and preserves us against all enemies. Today we come to question 52. Which asks, what comfort is it to you that Christ will come to judge the living and the dead? Answer, in all my sorrow and persecution, I lift up my head and eagerly await as judge from heaven the very same person who before has submitted himself to the judgment of God for my sake and has removed all the curse from me. He will cast all his and my enemies into everlasting condemnation But he will take me and all his chosen ones to himself into heavenly joy and glory. It's a longer answer, and it's full of wonderful gospel comfort. This is so powerful. We in this life experience sorrow and persecution. Sorrow comes in different forms. Earlier this week we lost our little dog, Hazel, who was a wonderful blessing and a wonderful part of our family, and we had to have been put to sleep on Monday morning of this week, and it was a heartbreaking day and it's been a sad week. Because it's hard to say goodbye. And what we look forward to, what we lift up our head and we eagerly await, is that when Jesus comes again to judge, we will never see anyone die again. Anyone, no, no pet of ours, no companion, no family member, no friend, no more funerals That's that's wow, we can lift up our head and eagerly await in sorrow, but also in persecution. The church suffers under the persecution of the world and the flesh and the devil. And that that is coming to an end as well. Because the very same person who submitted himself to the judgment of God for my sake and removed all the curse from me. He's going to come and he's going to cast all of his and my enemies, including death, the last enemy. He's going to destroy them all in everlasting condemnation, but he's going to take me and all his chosen ones to himself into heavenly joy and glory. Jesus talked about this in Luke twenty-one, twenty-seven and twenty-eight. He said And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. Now, when these things begin to take place, straighten up and raise your heads, because your redemption is drawing near. And that's the exact passage where the writers of the Heidelberg Catechism took this line. I lift up my head and eagerly await. Because Jesus says Straighten up and raise your heads because your redemption is drawing near. And today we're one day closer to that day than we were yesterday. And tomorrow we'll be one day closer still. Philippians 3, 20 and 21, Paul, a Roman citizen, writes to the church in Philippi, where they all were given Roman citizens because they were a Roman colony, a very special status for a city. And he reminds them But our citizenship is in heaven. One of the ways that we eagerly await the coming of the Lord is to not put too much stock into what the Lord has given us here in this life. Our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself When Jesus comes again, we will be transformed. We will be like him in his resurrection, in his glorious body, by the very power that Jesus has been given to subject all things, everything, to himself. In 2 Thessalonians, Paul is writing to the church in Thessalonica, and they are they are undergoing some pretty serious persecution. And so Paul writes to them about how their persecution is going to come to an end, and they will be vindicated when Jesus comes again. In 2 Thessalonians 1, verses 6 through 9, this is what we read. Since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief. to you who are afflicted as well as to us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance. On those who do not know God, and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus, they will suffer the punishment. of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might They will suffer the punishment because we will be vindicated and they will be repaid with affliction. Especially those who have afflicted the church, but really all of those who do not know God, do not obey the gospel, that day is coming, and that day will be a horrible day for those who are not in the Lord, and it will be a wonderful day for those who are in the Lord. And just the chapter prior to that, in 1 Thessalonians 4, Paul had written with a very positive and encouraging note. to the church as they were dealing with some false teachings about the day of the Lord has already come and there's you know the resurrection's already happened and you missed it. Uh and so Paul clarifies And this is what he says in 1 Thessalonians 4 about the second coming of Jesus. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven. with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. Isn't that a wonderful hope? We will always be with the Lord. There will be no separation. There will be no more struggle. There will be no more sorrow or persecution or affliction. We will be caught up and we will be with the Lord forever. That is the hope that we have. So coming back to our catechism question, what comfort is it to you that Christ will come to judge the living and the dead? The answer is that in all my sorrow and persecution, I lift up my head and eagerly await as judge from heaven the very same person who before has submitted himself to the judgment of God for my sake and has removed all the curse from me. He will cast all his and my enemies into everlasting condemnation, but he will take me and all his chosen ones to himself into heavenly joy and glory. Let's pray. Oh, come quickly, Lord Jesus. What else can we pray? We long to see you face to face. We long for that day to come when sorrow is at an end. When persecution and affliction are at an end, when everlasting peace and righteousness and the fullness of joy is ushered in forever. Help us to patiently wait and eagerly anticipate that coming day we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Thanks so much for joining me again as we wrap up our 18th week in the Heidelberg Catechism. Let's respond with worship. When she likes Uh sand my way when so light e billows along. What over my love thou hast called me to stay in his wealth in it. Is well with my soul. It is well with my soul. Soul I know it is where it is well my soul. The trial should come. Let me let the show. That try to recognize my day. And I shall his own glove for my story. With my strength It is the way, it is the way the way. Night Oh, this glory night. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord my story. It is the well we might store my love, it is the well. It is well in my joy, it is well. With my soul my world It is the world It is the world with my