Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church Our third day of our 22nd week brings us into Luke chapter 5. We're going to be looking at the calling of the disciples and asking this question, what does it look like to come to Jesus? What does it look like to come to Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It is truth. It shows us your Son. It shows us our need. It shows us how to come to Christ for salvation and for life. So we pray that you would speak to us through your word today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Luke five. On one occasion, while the crowd was pressing in on him to hear the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret. That's the Sea of Galilee. Same thing. And he saw two boats by the lake, but the fishermen had gone out of them and were washing their nets. Getting into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to put out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the people from the boat. And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into the deep, and let down your nets for a catch. And Simon answered, Master, We toiled all night, and took nothing. But at your word I will let down the nets. And when they had done this they enclosed a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking. They signaled to their partners and the other boat to come and help them, and they came and filled both of the boats so that they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish that they had taken. And so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon And Jesus said to Simon, Do not be afraid. From now on you will be catching men. And when they had brought their note their boats to land, they left everything and followed him While he was in one of the cities, there came a man full of leprosy. And when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face and begged him, Lord, if you will, you can make me clean. And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I will be clean. And immediately the leprosy left him. And he charged him to tell no one, but go and show yourself to the priest and make an offering for your cleansing, as Moses commanded for a proof to them. But now even more the report about him went abroad, and great crowds gathered to hear him and to be healed of their infirmities. But he would withdraw to a desolate place and pray. In Luke 5, we see Jesus call Simon Peter to himself, and we see Simon fall down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man. What does it look like to come to Jesus? In Matthew 11, 28, Jesus says, Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Well, in today's passage, we actually see two different men in two very different life circumstances both come to Jesus and find salvation in him. It's the Apostle Peter and it's this leper. While their encounters with Jesus were different, we can learn from both of them what it looks like to come to Jesus in faith. Peter apparently knew about Jesus before this encounter. In so many ways, this encounter with Jesus was very inconvenient for Peter. He just finished fishing all night and had nothing to show for his work. Jesus showed up and decided to use Peter's boat as a floating pulpit or platform from which to teach the crowds for some period of time. Jesus then asked Peter to push out from the shore a little so that he could teach without the crowds pressing in too closely. And on some level, I'm sure that Peter wished he could just go home and sleep. He'd been out all night fishing. After Jesus finished teaching for some time, he asked Peter to go out and fish more. Jesus wasn't a fisherman. Peter was. Peter had already fished all night and caught nothing Even though he thought he knew better, he still went fishing. He obeyed Jesus. The result? The experienced professional fisherman was astonished. by the incredibly large catch of fish, so large that their nets started breaking and they needed help from their friends in another boat. When Peter returned ashore, He reacted to Jesus in a way that we probably would not expect. He didn't say, wow, that was cool. Can you do it again? He didn't even say, can I follow you, please? No, he fell on his knees. He begged Jesus to leave him. He said, I'm a sinful man. Peter showed that he knew who Jesus was and that he also knew his own sinful state. And that humble repentance showed real understanding and real faith as Jesus calmed his fears. and invited Peter to follow him. The leper also came to Jesus in humility, confessing his need and pleading with Jesus to meet it He too understood the power of Jesus. He said, if you are willing, you can make me clean. And Jesus responded to his humble faith with loving compassion and healing So what does coming to faith in Jesus look like? First of all, knowing who Jesus is, especially how powerful and holy he is. A tame, domesticated Jesus of convenience, a Jesus we keep in our back pocket to pull out in emergencies, cannot save us because it's not the real Jesus Second, knowing who we are, especially the depth of our sin and of our need for Jesus. No entitlement mentality will lead you to real trust in Jesus. And third, an honest and open plea. Both the leper and Peter were honest with Jesus, speaking from the heart. So if you know who Jesus is. And you know your need for him. And you come to him with your honest plea, he will not turn you away. He will have compassion. He will save Psalm one oh eight is a psalm, a psalm of David My heart is steadfast, O God. I will sing and make melody with all my being. Awake, O harp and lyre. I will awake the dawn. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations. For your steadfast love is great above the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the clouds Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth, that your beloved ones may be delivered. Give salvation by your right hand and answer me. God has promised in his holiness, with exaltation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the valley of Sukkim. Gilead is mine. Manasseh is mine. Ephraim is my helmet. Judah is my scepter. Moab is my wash basin. Upon Edom I cast my shoe. Over Philistia I shout in triumph. Who will bring me? into the fortified city. Who will lead me to Edom? Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out, O God, with our armies. O grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man. With God we shall do valiantly. It is He who will tread down our foes. Psalm 108, part of it is really clear, and part of it's a little bit confusing. What I want to do today is something I did a couple times last week, and that is I'm going to share with you the written-out prayer that I wrote based on Psalm 108. Let's pray. My heart is steadfast, O God. I will sing and make melody with all my being awake. I will awake the dawn. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations, for your steadfast love is great above the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth, that your beloved ones may be delivered. Give salvation by your right hand, the Lord Jesus Christ, and answer us. God, you have promised in your holiness that the meek shall inherit the earth. All the nations of the earth belong to you. Your church is your prized possession The visible sign of your rule on earth, the nations of the world which rebel against you, these you will destroy. Over them you will shout in triumph. Who will bring your people to victory over your enemies? It seems in many ways like you have rejected us, O God, when your missionaries and evangelists labor with no apparent fruit. In hardened places where little gospel light shines, O grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man. With you alone, O God, we shall do valiantly. It is you alone who will tread down our foes. Give your gospel message success in Muslim land. in secular postmodern Europe, in Japan, in the darkest corners of the earth, shine the light of Christ for all to see. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels and learning to pray the Psalms together. I hope you can join us again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.