Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to Journey Through Acts. This series of Acts Devotionals was originally released as part of our three-year study of the whole Bible that we did together as a church from 2019. 2022 to 2024. Let's now turn our attention to God's word. Good morning and welcome to day 537 of Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day the daily devotional series from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I'm Michael Talercio, the pastoral intern of Forest Hill. I'm glad that you're with us this morning as we return to the book of Acts. We're looking at the second to last chapter in the book today, and it's going to contain a lot of travel plans, a lot of uh itinerant sort of information as Paul is brought from one region to another and from that region to another and so forth and so on It's very reminiscent of some of the scriptures in the Old Testament where God's people were traveling from one place to another on their way to the promised land. And while that's not exactly what's happening in today's passage, it's probably intentional that it's similar in the way that it's written. Let's ask for the Lord's help as we look at the text. Let's ask for his grace to help us see how this text really reminds us that everything that Paul goes through is about Jesus. It's for Jesus' glory. It's for the sake of people hearing about Jesus And it's really to bring people into a fuller understanding of how Jesus is in control over this world that we, even today, still live in. So let's pray to him now. God, thank you that you have provided opportunity for us, as we look at Acts twenty-seven, to be refreshed by the reality of your sovereignty over every detail of our lives. We pray that that's something that would be at the fore of our thinking and our thoughts as we have this opportunity now to read this word and that you would help us to just rejoice in Jesus, to rejoice in what he is doing and what he'll continue to do, all of it according to his schedule, according to his timing. Today and evermore into the future. We pray this in his name. Amen. Alright, we're looking at Acts chapter 27. And when it was decided that we should sail for Italy, they delivered Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion of the Augustan cohort named Julius. And embarking in a ship of Adramidium, which was about to sail to the ports along the coast of Asia, we put to sea, accompanied by Aristarchus, a Macedonian from Thessalonica The next day we put in at Sidon, and Julius treated Paul kindly and gave him leave to go to his friends and be cared for. And putting out to sea from there we sailed under the Lee of Cyprus, because the winds were against us. And when we had sailed across the open sea along the coast of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra in Lycia. There the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing for Italy and put us on board. We sailed slowly for a number of days and arrived with difficulty off Kinnitus. and as the wind did not allow us to go farther, we sailed under the Lee of Crete off Salm Salmon. Coasting along it with difficulty, we came to a place called Fairhavens, near which was the city of Lycia. Since much time had passed, and the voyage was now dangerous because even the fast was already over. Paul advised them, saying, Sirs, I perceive that the voyage will be with injury and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives. But the centurion paid more attention to the pilot and to the owner of the ship than to what Paul said, and because the harbor was not suitable to spend the winter in. the majority decided to put out to sea from there on the chance that somehow they could reach Phoenix, a harbor of Crete facing both southwest and northwest and spend the winter there. Now when the south wind blew gently, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete close to the shore. But soon a tempestuous wind called the Northeaster struck down from the land, and when the ship was caught and could not face the wind, we gave way to it and were driven along Running under the lee of a small island called Cauda, we managed with difficulty to secure the ship's boat. After hoisting it up, They used supports to undergird the ship. Then, fearing that they would run aground on the s on the surdice, they lowered the gear, and thus they were driven along. Since we were violently storm-tossed, they began the next day to jettison the cargo, and on the third day they threw the ship's tackle overboard with their own hands. When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days and no small tempest lay on us, all hope of our being saved was at last abandoned. Since they had been without food for a long time, Paul stood up among them and said, Men, you should have listened to me and not have set sail from Crete and incurred this injury and loss. Yet now I urge you to take heart, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship. For this very night there stood before me an angel of God to whom I belong, and whom I worship, and he said Do not be afraid, Paul. You must stand before Caesar. And behold, God has granted you all those who sail with you. So take heart, men, for I have faith in God that it will be exactly as I have been told, but we must run aground on some island. When the fourteenth night had come, as we were being driven across the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors suspected that they were nearing land. So they took a sounding and found twenty fathoms A little farther on, they took a sounding again and found fifteen fathoms. And fearing that we might run on the rocks, they let down four anchors from the stern and prayed for day to come. And as the sailors were seeking to escape from the ship and had lowered the ship's boat into the sea under pretense of laying out anchors from the bow, Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, Unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved. Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the ship's boat and let it go. As day was about to dawn, Paul urged them all to take some food, saying, Today is the fourteenth day that you have continued in suspense and without food, having taken nothing. Therefore I urge you to take some food, for it will give you strength, for not a hair is to perish from the head of any of you. And when he had said these things, he took bread, and giving thanks to God in the presence of all, he broke it and began to eat. And they all were encouraged, and ate some food themselves. We were in all 276 persons in the ship, and when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea. Now when it was day, they did not recognize the land, but they noticed the bay with a beach on which they planned, if possible, to run the ship ashore So they cast off the anchors and left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the ropes that tied the rudders. Then hoisting the foresail to the wind, they made for the beach But striking a reef, they ran the vessel aground. The bow stuck and remained immovable, and the stern was being broken up by the surf. The soldiers' plan was to kill the prisoners, lest any should swim away and escape, but the centurion, wishing to save Paul, kept them from carrying out their plan. He ordered those who could swim to jump overboard overboard first and make for the land, and the rest on planks were on pieces of the ship. And so it was that all were brought safely to land. So Paul had previously received a word from the Lord that he would be secured by the Lord. To the extent that Paul would be able to testify about the Lord in Rome. And here we see this additional word that he's received from the Lord. That the Lord will allow him and see him through to stand before Caesar And as a result, Paul is encouraged and strengthened. But that doesn't really mitigate against the reality that Paul still has to go through this chaos and this terrible circumstance here with these with this shipwreck. This isn't his first one. And so he knows what he's in for as he's about to go through this experience, even as he has testified to these men that they shouldn't set sail at this time, that it would be foolish, he still goes through it. We don't get any hints that he's been complaining about it the experience, even though it's kind of the fault of the leaders who are having him and the other th the others with them all go through this experience, this foolish decision, which just ends up in this violent storm-tossed situation. He doesn't complain. He still trusts the Lord. And and what I think is helpful for us to draw out from that is that we may know the end. And we may know that what's going to happen in the end is going to be to our benefit. And if we're Christians, we should know that in the end God's people win along with Jesus who has secured the victory for his people. But we still have to go through the experience. We still have to go through the difficulties, the ups and downs, the trials of life And we're meant to do it in a way, in the way that Paul does. Paul does so without complaint. In fact, even in the midst of this trial. He thanks the Lord for the food that the Lord has provided, and he encourages those with him to eat that food. And look notice how he does that in verse 35. He takes bread and giving thanks to God in the presence of all, he breaks that bread and he begins to eat. He has the confidence in the Lord that actually settles him and enables him to eat and to enjoy God's goodness and to thank God in the midst of all of these men, many of whom were prisoners. Um and so probably many of whom would naturally be quite defiant of the Lord. And yet his confidence in the Lord And his gratitude to the Lord, even in the midst of this harrowing trial, it encourages those with him. And they eat as well. When they, verse 38, had eaten enough, they lightened the ship. And so the question for us is, are we willing to go through the challenges of life? In a way similar to Paul, where we trust the Lord, where we where we fight to make Jesus our Lord. Even though we know it's going to be challenging. We may know the end from the beginning. If we're Christians, we should. Jesus wins and we win with him. But are we still going to go through the challenges and the trials of life, trusting the Lord, fighting to make him our Lord as we think about him, as we regard him, as we live in his world? Will we trust Him as the one who's going to see us through and such that we can lay our lives down in submission to Him with gratitude from our hearts, even on day 14 after a shipwreck? God, would you help us to? That's our prayer here as we end. That God would help us to do that. Let's pray together. Father, thank you that you've given us this time to just look at Paul as he has been brought forth uh in this chapter through these difficulties, through these scary experiences, almost losing his life, all these men with him almost losing their lives at sea, uh s the stuff that Fantastic and uh engaging movies are made of, Lord, but this is something that Paul and these men really experienced. We thank you, Lord, that you, Lord Jesus, We're seeing him through it all. We might not get a direct word from you, Lord, in the way that Paul did. We we have the Bible, and that's enough, Lord, but Nevertheless, we know that you are in control, but would you help us to still trust you and go through the trials of life without complaint, with gratitude? Would you help us to make sacrifices, O Lord? For the sake of your kingdom, whether that's through proclaiming truth to people that we know might not be interested in hearing it, or maybe giving of our time and our resources, maybe giving financially to support your work, Lord. Whatever it may be, Lord, would you help us to do so, knowing that in the end, you are worthy of our challenges that we would experience, our trials. You are worthy of that experience. Would we rejoice in Jesus? We ask that this would happen for His glory, for our good, in His name we pray. Amen. Well, Acts chapter 27 is a bit like a word of encouragement for somebody to get on the roller coaster of life. We know that in the end we're going to get off of that roller coaster safely. We're in the Lord's hands, but we still got to go through the experience. So let Paul's words and actions from today's chapter encourage you to go out in confidence into the Lord's world, knowing that we'll end up with him in the end, that he is sovereign. that he's seeing us home to himself and that we can engage, we can make the sacrifices, we can go through the challenging experiences, we can go through the trials. With confidence in him, with joy, we can practice joy as we go through these experiences. And perhaps, just like a roller coaster, we might have a little fun in the process. And if we do, we can thank Him for it. Because every good and every perfect gift comes down from above from the Father of lights through Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior. Go out into God's world today, ready for something that you wouldn't get the experience of if you didn't have Jesus. And do so with confidence in Him In his name. God bless you. Thank you so much for joining us for this time in God's Word. We hope it was a blessing to you. If you want to find out more information about Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, you can find that on our website. Forest Hill PCA dot org, that's foresthillpca dot org