Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 36th week together in the Gospels. We're here in the Gospel of John. We're looking at chapter 12, verses 27 to 43, and we're looking at something puzzling that John says, because John says that they could not believe. So what does John mean when he says they could not believe? And you'll hear that in today's passage. We're going to be looking at that phrase today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for every part of your word. It's the truth. It's the truth that we need to hear. Sometimes it's hard for us to hear. But we need to hear it nonetheless. So please write your truth on our souls, show us Jesus, and help us to love Him more. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. John 12, 27-43. Jesus says, Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, an angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out, and I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So the crowd answered him, We have heard from the law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is the Son of Man? So Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light Believe in the light, that you may become sons of light. When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him So that the words spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled, Lord who has believed what he heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Therefore they could not believe For again Isaiah said, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them. Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him. Nevertheless, many, even of the authorities, believed in him. But for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue. For they loved the glory that came from man more than the glory that comes from God. So ever find it amazing that people could be there and see Jesus raise someone from the dead? Eat food miraculously created by Jesus, knowing that he only had five loaves and a few fish, and he fed thousands of people and you got to eat of that or to watch him heal a person who was who was blind from birth or lame for decades and not believe? I mean, we think surely if we had seen such wonderful things done by Jesus, we would have believed. But the people didn't believe. In verse 37, Jesus says, um They had, or John says, though they had seen so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him. John himself seems to just marvel at this persistent unbelief. But then John realizes when he spends some time in the book of Isaiah, remembering Isaiah under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he sees some things. Isaiah had said, Lord, who has believed what he heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? This is right here in Isaiah 53, um, the beginning of this the suff suffering servant song, which is one of the most famous passages in the Old Testament about Jesus. And then also, he says then, therefore they could not believe. For again Isaiah says, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them. So why would God harden the hearts of Jewish people, blind their minds, keeping them from believing in Jesus? From scripture we know this this kind of blinding, this kind of hardening is an act of judgment. It's called a judicial hardening. It's how God brings about judgment against a stubborn, persistent unbelief and a lack of repentance. Notice the order here. Verse 37, though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe, right? Therefore they could not believe. First, it was they saw the signs. Jesus even said to them, Look, walk in the light while you have the light among you. Right? Jesus said there was there was this voice that thundered from heaven. God answered Jesus from heaven. We see this in verse 27-28 I have glorified it. I'll glorify it again. People couldn't quite understand what the voice said, but they did hear a voice from heaven saying, maybe it thundered. Maybe an angel spoke to him. Jesus said, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. And Jesus has said again and again in the Gospel of John, if you don't want to believe me on the basis of what I say, believe on the basis of the works. And here he says, walk in the light while you have the light among you. So the step one here is, although they had seen so many signs done before them, they still did not believe. And then it is, therefore, therefore, they could not believe, for Isaiah had said he's blinded their eyes, hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them. God is not working against the will of the people in judicial hardening when he blinds their eyes and hardens their hearts. They want their sin. They don't want God's ways. They don't want to see what is plainly before them. And so when God acts in judicial hardening, he's giving people over to what they want. He's giving them What they're asking for, which is I don't want to believe. I yeah, I see all this stuff, but I don't want to believe. It would be inconvenient. And so God blinds their minds, blinds their eyes, rather, hardens their hearts, they don't see, they don't understand, they don't turn, and they're not healed. And then we even see that some of the authorities did believe in him, but because of the fear of man, they loved the glory that came from man more than the glory that comes from God. They would not confess their faith. And the Bible's pretty clear, Jesus is pretty clear, if you don't confess your faith before people, he's not going to confess you as believing in him before his father. So it's really sad, but it's understandable and it's very just because you have people who have seen evidence and yet refuse to believe. Or they really do believe, but they don't want to say they believe because they don't want to be shunned from their community. This is the same issues that people face today. There is an abundance of evidence for the existence of God and for the truth of Christianity. Creation itself is a continual testimony to the existence of God. Creation speaks of its creator continually, day after day. Scripture, history, testimonies. speak to the truth of the Christian faith. People who receive this kind of revelation from creation, from scripture, from the testimony of believers, and they don't want to believe. They don't want to believe And so when God blinds their eyes and hardens their hearts so that they don't turn and get healed, he's just giving them what they want. And then there are other people who know, they know in their heart. That this is true. And they really do believe in a private way, but they don't want to confess it. They don't want to say out loud that they believe because they don't want the social fallout. They don't want the rejection. Jesus says that's not good enough. That's not good, right? That means you're loving the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God, and that is not a good thing. This is still happening. 2,000 years later, even more evidence throughout history, and it's still happening. The remarkable thing really that we should be thinking about is the fact that we have come to see the truth, and we have come to believe, and we have come to confess our faith in Jesus openly before the world. I hope you have. Because that's the miracle. You see, if we were left to our own devices, we would make excuses because we don't really want anyone to lord over us. We don't want to have a master. We don't have want to have a savior. We want to be our own God. So left to our own devices, we would kind of make up excuses and we would make up reasons why, oh, but you know, I can rationalize this away or I can justify that away or I can cover this up or I can minimize that. so that I don't have to believe. And even if I really do believe, I'll just keep it to myself. There's lots of people who say, I have a religious faith. I have beliefs about God, but I'm going to keep them to myself. That's not what Jesus tells us to do. So if we have come to believe, and if we have come to confess that faith before others, that is a miracle. That is a miracle of grace that God has worked in us. And we should thank Him for it. We should praise Him for it. Because being judicially hardened, that's just the natural consequence of natural human behavior and then God's righteous and just response to it. But to have eyes of the blind opened, to have the dead live, that's what's happened to us. That's the miracle. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, thank you for having mercy on us. We do pray for those we know and love who are rejecting you. Who are suppressing the truth in unrighteousness, who are refusing to confess you before others, who are denying the truth. hiding from the truth, making excuses for not believing the truth. We pray for them, Father, that you would have mercy on them. Yes, they deserve Judicial hardening. Yes, they deserve to be given over to their unbelief. Would you please have mercy on them? And would you show them the truth? And would you open their eyes and would you draw out A confession of faith from them that they might be saved. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks very much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I pray that today's devotional is a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow, and as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.