Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I hope you're doing well. As we finish up week 25 today in Luke 12, we're looking at the first part of Luke 12, verses 1 to 34, and asking this very spiritually important question, what are the dangers of anxiety and covetousness? We'll see that Jesus warns us against these anxiety and covetousness within today's passage. So what are the dangers of those? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Your love is strong and faithful. Your love is unfailing and true. We need you. We need you to teach us in your word. We need you to guide us to live by faith and to trust in Jesus and to walk closely with Him. So we pray that you would do this by your Holy Spirit in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 12, 1-34. In the meantime, when so many thousands of the people had gathered together that they were trampling one another. He began to say to his disciples first, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. Nothing will be covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. Therefore, whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be proclaimed on the housetops. I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do, but I warn you whom to fear Fear him, who after he has killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? and not one of them is forgotten before God. Why, even the hairs of your head are numbered. Fear not, you are of more value than many sparrows. And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the Son of Man will also acknowledge before the angels of God. But the one who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. And every one who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but The one who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious about how you should defend yourself or what you should say. for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say. Someone in the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. But he said to him, Man, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you? And he said to them, Take care and be on your guard against all covetousness. for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. And he told them a parable saying, The land of a rich man produced plentifully And he thought to himself, What shall I do? For I have nowhere to store my crops. And he said, I will do this I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have many ample goods laid up for many years. Relax. Eat, drink, be merry. But God said to him, Fool, this night your soul is required of you, and the things you have prepared, whose will they be? So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. And he said to his disciples, Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life. what you will eat, nor about your body what you will put on. For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing. Consider the ravens. They neither sow nor reap, they neither They have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds? And which of you, by being anxious, can add a single hour to his span of life? If then you are not able to do as small a thing as that, why are you anxious about the rest? Consider the lilies, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you, even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so clothed the grass, which is alive in the field today, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith? And do not seek what you are to eat and what you are to drink, nor be worried, for all the nations of the world seek after these things, and your father knows that you need them. Instead, seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to you. Fear not, little flock. For it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell your possessions and give to the needy. Provide yourselves with money bags that do not grow old, with a treasure in heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches, and no moth destroys, for where your treasure is There will your heart be also. In every age the church has a tendency to select certain sins to emphasize while ignoring other serious sins. We all have these cultural blind spots, which keep us from seeing the beauty of the full wisdom of God's Word. Thus, in our age, we hear much about sexual sins and profanity and abortion, which are all evil, and we hear less about covetousness and anxiety. So why does Jesus warn us so strongly against covetousness and idolatry? What's the big deal? Well, covetousness and idolatry are two sides of the same sin, materialism. Thus, when Jesus warns against covetousness, he says one's life does not consist in the abundance of one's possessions. And when he warns about anxiety, it is anxiousness about specifically what you will eat and what you will put on. Materialism is a huge core sin in our contemporary American culture. It is dangerous to us as Christians because Jesus says, where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. We have no more sure sign that materialism has indeed gripped our hearts than that the twin accompanying sins of covetousness and anxiety rearing their ugly heads. Covetousness is the restless grasping for more material goods. Anxiety is the restless concern that our needs or our deep desires will go unmet or unsatisfied. Both of these show not only an idolatrous attachment to material goods. But perhaps even more seriously, they reveal a profound lack of trust in the goodness of our Heavenly Father. It is impossible to be trusting the goodness of God as your Father while being covetous or being anxious about your material well-being. So what is the solution? Give thanks When we express gratitude for what we've been given, we are rehearsing the goodness of God to our own souls. We are telling ourselves of the gracious provision of our Heavenly Father in meeting our every need. We are truth-telling, and truth-telling is always lie-fighting and deception-diffusing. So when you feel the restlessness of covetousness and anxiety rising in your soul, stop, confess it to God, and give Thanks. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 121 as we continue to pray through the Psalms. I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come? My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth. He will not let your foot be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade at your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night The Lord will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore. That's a great psalm for us to read and pray when we're feeling anxious. God is our help. He will not let our foot be moved. He is not asleep at the wheel, but he's watching over our lives, keeping us and guarding us, keeping us from all evil, keeping our lives. Let's pray. O Lord God Almighty, our Heavenly Father, we have no reason to be anxious nor grasping because you are good. And you are sovereign over every detail of our lives. protecting us and guiding us and keeping us but you always are always unfailingly you never stop being good you never stop being God you never stop being our gracious Heavenly Father So help us to trust you and to walk in your ways, trusting you, not being anxious or covetous, but resting in your goodness. In Jesus' name, amen Well, thank you so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope you can join us next week. Have a good weekend. Have a good Lord's Day. If you're going to be worshiping with us at Forest Hill, we're going to be looking at Psalm 32 about the blessing of being forgiven. So I hope you can join us for worship. Or if you worship at another place, enjoy the worship at your church home. God bless you. Have a blessed day in the Lord.