We are going to turn our attention to God's Word now. Our scripture reading for our sermon is from Hebrews chapter 2, verses 1 through 9. Therefore, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it. For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable, and every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution How shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will. For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere, what is man that you are mindful of him, or the son of man that you care for him You made him for a little while lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now, in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside of his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor, because of the suffering of death so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. That's Hebrews 2, 1 through 9. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we are gathered together in our homes virtually, but by your Spirit to hear from you. We pray that you would speak to us. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts. We pray that we would hear what you are saying through your word, by your Holy Spirit, that you would convict us, that you would challenge us, that you would comfort us. And that you would change us to be more like Jesus for the time we spend with you in your word together this morning. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, you know the old saying familiarity breeds contempt? Well, I have an opening question for you. Have we become too comfortable with Jesus? too complacent with the King of Kings. Especially at Christmas time, I I think we have Jesus Maybe so figured out that we've kind of domesticated him. We've found a nice comfortable corner for him in our lives where he can't really hurt or offend anyone. Well, on December 1st, first day of this month, British American poet Lucy Shaw died at the age of 96 She was one of the best Christian poets of the past fifty-sixty years. She began writing in the nineteen sixties. She continued writing up until very recently, even at the age of ninety-six. Well, several years ago she wrote a great advent poem. that I think captures the world's contempt for Jesus at Christmas time. It's called, It is as if infancy were the whole of incarnation. This is Lucy Shaw. One time of the year, the newborn child is everywhere, planted in Madonna's arms, haymos, stables. in palaces or farms, or quaintly under snowed gables, gothic, angular, or Baroque plump naked or elaborately swathed, encircled by Delarobia wreaths, garnished with whimsical partridges and pears, drummers and drums lit by oversized stars, partnered with lambs, peace doves, sugar plums, bells, plastic camels and sets of three, as if these were what we need for eternity But Jesus the man is not to be seen. We are too wary these days of beard and sandal feet. Yet if we celebrate Let it be that he has invaded our lives with purpose, striding over our picturesque traditions, our shallow sentiment. overturning our cash registers, wielding his peace like a sword, rescuing us into reality, demanding much more than the milk and the softness and the mother warmth of the baby in the storefront crash. Only the man would ask all of each of us, reaching out Always, urgently, with strong, effective love, only the man would give his life and live again for love of us Oh come, let us adore Him, Christ the Lord If we are indeed going to come and adore Christ the Lord, this Advent, this Christmas season, we need to pay closer attention to who He is and what He has done. And this is the urgent call of the opening verses of Hebrews 2. Therefore, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it For since the message delivered by angels proved to be reliable, and every transgression and disobedience received a just retribution, how shall we escape if we neglect Such a great salvation. It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard. While God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, distributed according to His will. Verse 1 carries a strong sense of both necessity and urgency. So therefore, at the beginning of verse 1, connects this call directly to the superiority of Christ that was the focus of Hebrews 1 that we've been looking at the last couple of weeks Because Christ is so much superior to angels, and because the gospel of Jesus Christ is so much superior to the law, it is necessary. For us to attend much more closely, focus much more intently on the things we have heard. That is on the good news of the gospel. or casually familiar with something, we can neglect its greatness. That's the origin of the familiarity breeds contempt saying. And the solution for this problem is to pay much closer attention. to continually grow in the depth of our understanding and appreciation of the gospel we have heard. Hebrews 2. 1 presents us with the only two options that are the reality of the way that our lives will go. We either pay much closer attention to the gospel, or We drift away from it. About twenty-six, twenty-seven years ago Beth and I went early in our marriage to San Francisco. We went to go and watch her brother graduate from physical therapy school, and we were there for the weekend for the graduation. And we had an opportunity to have lunch at a restaurant at Pier 39 overlooking the water. It's a beautiful scene, you can see. San Francisco Bay, you can see Alcatraz off in the distance, the Golden Gate Bridge. It's a beautiful place to sit. But as we were sitting there having lunch, we saw a kayaker. who was paddling very, very hard and not really getting anywhere, but he was getting a workout, he was concentrating, he was focusing. And then he would take a break for a few seconds and he would immediately drift backwards. carried by the strong currents in San Francisco Bay. He had to concentrate and work hard just to maintain his position. The danger of drifting in our spiritual lives is similar Maybe it's a little more subtle, maybe it's a little more gradual, maybe we don't even notice it at first. But the current of this world is continually pulling us away from Jesus, away from the kingdom of God. And if we don't fix our eyes on Jesus, if we don't pay more careful attention to the gospel, we will drift away from Jesus. We'll get caught up in sports. or politics or entertainment or social media or doom scrolling through reels or tick tocks or whatever and we will neglect And verses 2 to 3 follow up this urgency of verse 1 by driving home the consequences of neglecting the salvation that's brought to us by Jesus. You see, in the Old Testament, if you neglected the law of God, you were subject to punishment. Every transgression had its consequences. And so reasoning then, if Jesus is far superior to angels, and the gospel is far superior to the law Then it would make sense that neglecting salvation in Jesus would have even more dire and eternal consequences. Now we need to be clear and make sure that we're understanding what this warning is. When Hebrews asks, how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It is not talking about Dire and eternal consequences for the regular sin that's in the life of a believer. All believers sin regularly We're called to love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. We're called to love our neighbors as ourselves, and we know that we don't live up to that. But we also know that the blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sin. If we are walking by faith in Jesus, if we are abiding in Jesus and his words are abiding in us, we may sin, but we are forgiven. What this warning is about. is the warning against walking away from Jesus in unbelief. If you take your eyes off of Jesus and you start listening to the world, you will drift. If you drift long enough, you might just walk away altogether. The issues can vary. Sometimes it's moral, sometimes it's political, sometimes it's spiritual, sometimes it seems to be intellectual. But whatever it is, you know, James 4 calls worldliness a form of spiritual adultery. In Hebrews 2, we get a warning against it. But is it a warning that is teaching us that we can lose our salvation through neglect? No, not really. But Hebrews 2 is teaching us that we can show the world and ourselves that we were actually never really truly saved to begin with. Or perhaps we could end up in an extended prodigal period like the prodigal son wasting our inheritance until we're left desiring the slop of pigs. Think about what that looks like in a worldly sense, craving the things of the world that are of no real value, rather than truly valuing God, we would lose our joy, we would lose our effectiveness, we would lose our fruitfulness for ministry. Prodigal sins need to come back home to show they are true sons. And there is such a thing as someone who makes a false profession of faith. Many people have used The doctrine of eternal security. The great and glorious truth that once God saves you, you cannot lose your salvation. He who saves you will also keep you. But many people have used the doctrine of eternal security as a cover for presumption. They mistake an outward profession of faith in Jesus with the inward possession of true faith in Jesus. You can make an outward profession for a variety of different reasons. You can even deceive yourself into thinking that it's genuine, but do you possess true saving faith in your heart? The Bible teaches us the perseverance of the saints, but it doesn't teach us the perseverance of the ants. Here's the real issue. Do you love Jesus? If you really love Jesus, it's because your heart has been changed by the Holy Spirit. And if your heart's been changed by the Holy Spirit, you won't walk away from him. You might get distracted, you might drift a bit, but the Spirit will bring you back because by God's grace, your love for Jesus is incorruptible, is what the end of Ephesians says. Not because of how faithful you are, but because ultimately of how faithful God is and how enduring the work of God is. So some people don't just drift away from Jesus due to neglect. Some people seem to have serious questions and doubts, real intellectual wrestlings that come up So to address that, the author of Hebrews reminds us of the reasons that we have for our belief, of the sure evidence that we have for trusting in Jesus He tells us that the good news of the gospel was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard. while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will. Jesus himself declared the truth of who he was and what he had come to do. He said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. He said Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. He said, The Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. It's Jesus who testified to the truth The apostles were eyewitnesses of this. They heard him speak and teach. They witnessed his life, his character. They saw his miracles, they saw his death and resurrection and ascension, and then they went out and proclaimed Jesus and his word to the world and to the church. Now God was also pleased to confirm the testimony of the apostles through miracles, some of the same miracles that Jesus himself had done. The lame were able to walk, the sick were healed, the dead were raised. And finally, the Holy Spirit distributed gifts to his church, and these strengthen our faith. So there is evidence to believe. The Word of Jesus, the testimony of the Apostles, the signs and wonders that accompanied both the ministry of Jesus and the Ministry of the Apostles Ultimately, the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead is the surest reason for believing. Now this list in Hebrews 2, 3 to 4 is not comprehensive For one thing, the author of Hebrews could have mentioned the many prophecies about Jesus in the Old Testament that were perfectly fulfilled, that he would be born of a virgin, that he would be born in Bethlehem. that he would speak in parables, that he would speak with such wisdom that he would hold people spellbound, that he would be betrayed by a close friend, that he would be sold for thirty pieces of silver, that he would be pierced in his hands and feet That his bones would not be broken, that the soldiers would gamble for his clothing, that he would be buried in a rich man's tomb, that he would see the light of life after he had given up his life unto death. All of these Specific details about Jesus are all prophesied in the Old Testament and they were all perfectly fulfilled. The point remains the same. The salvation of Jesus is received by faith. But it's not a faith that asks you to switch off your brain and not have any evidence. It's faith But it's also based on good evidence. And if you pay closer attention to it, you will see that more clearly. The more you study the Old Testament, the more you will see that it's pointing you to Christ on every page. So the closer attention is rewarded with stronger assurance. But the warning Is that if you walk away from Jesus, you're walking away from well-established truth, and you will not escape. dire and eternal consequences if you reject salvation in Jesus. Now to understand the next section of Hebrews 2 Starting in verse 5. It really helps to understand the temptation that the original audience for this book was facing. See, they were tempted to deny Jesus and return to Judaism. They were tempted to think that having angels as mediators was as good as having Jesus as your mediator. But the author of Hebrews is saying that's actually a really bad idea. Here's verse 5. For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking It has been testified somewhere, and by somewhere this is Psalm 8, what is man that you are mindful of him, or the Son of Man that you care for him? You have made him for a little while lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now, in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. Jesus Not the angels, he's Lord of all. This is adding to the argument in Hebrews that Jesus is far superior to angels. So not only is Jesus far superior to angels in who he is, he is God's final word. He is God's radiance and exact image. He is worshipped by the angels. He is God forever. Not only is Jesus far superior to angels in what he has done, He has made purification for sins, and he has sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. All that was established in Hebrews 1. But now we see this. He's also superior in the destiny that has been appointed for him. The world to come, the new heavens and the new earth. promised in Isaiah 65 and 66 and other places, is going to be subject to King Jesus. He will reign over all the renewed creation forever as Lord of all. And this is because of a truth that goes all the way back to the beginning of the Bible. Now you've got to follow me on this. Because this is really important to understand. Why is it that Jesus is going to be the ruler over the new creation? It's because he became human. And perfectly obeyed his father and earned the title of the heir of all things and the lord of all things. Why did he have to become human to do that? Because in the beginning, way back in Genesis 1, creation was made to be put under human dominion. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, and then he made human beings in his image, male and female, and he blessed them, and he told them to fill the earth and subdue it. God's original plan for his creation has not been abandoned. The evidence for that is Psalm 8. which repeats this creation mandate from Genesis 1 as a celebration of God's creation and the role of humanity within God's creation. Let's look for a moment at the whole of Psalm 8. If you have a Bible, turn to Psalm 8. We're going to look at the whole thing. It's not very long, but it helps us to understand the part that Hebrews is quoting within its context. So here's Psalm 8. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. You have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babies and infants, you have established strength because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon, and the stars which you have set in place, what is man that you are mindful of him? and the Son of Man, that you care for him. Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, and crowned him with glory and honor. You have given him dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, the fish of the sea Whatever passes along the paths of the seas, O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. God did not abandon his original plan for humanity and creation when Adam and Eve rebelled against him. Jesus came into this world to restore God's rightful, original created order Jesus came not only to personally save all those who trust in him from sin and death, but he also came to restore a redeemed humanity to our rightful place as those who have been given dominion over the works of God's hands But Hebrews 2 tells us that we don't yet see humanity restored to our dominion. While we still bear the image of God, we are still fallen. And creation is still under the curse of the fall. So we do not see things the way they should be, the way God made them in the beginning That's what the second half of verse 8 means. Now, in putting everything in subjection to him, he had left nothing outside of his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. That is, to man, to humanity. In the beginning, as stated in Genesis 1 and reflected in Psalm 8, God ordained that all creation would be under the control of humanity. We were given dominion to subdue creation, but do we see that in reality? No, we don't Diseases kill millions of people around the world every year. Natural disasters strike and devastate whole communities Snakes bite, sharks attack, tigers eat people. And this is not the way God created the world to function. This is actually the deeper significance of Jesus and his miracles over creation. The way that Jesus calmed the storm, the way he healed the sick, the way he cast out demons. So often we we have to think just quickly like Oh, Jesus did these miracles to prove that he was God. But actually that's not really true. Yes, Jesus was God of the flesh, but he actually did these miracles to show that he was restoring humanity. to its rightful place as ruler under God, over God's creation, that he was the new Adam, the head of a new humanity The captain of our salvation. So everything is not yet in subjection to man. But We do see Jesus, the second Adam, the firstborn from the dead, the ruler of the new creation. Verse 9. But we see him, Jesus, who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death. so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. Jesus was made a little lower than the angels for a little while. He was sent to earth as a helpless baby. He walked the dusty streets of Israel, subject to hunger, thirst, exhaustion, and temptation. Why did the glorious Son of God, the eternal word of God, become fully human? Why did he humble himself and take on the form of a slave, as we confessed in Philippians 2? Well, let's go back to that confession of faith that we used earlier in the service. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. to the glory of God the Father. Because Jesus suffered unto death, even death on a cross, he has been crowned with glory and honor. I said earlier that Philippians 2 was likely drawing on an early hymn or an early creed of the church, one that was in wide circulation, one that was well known. If you look at the language, of Hebrews 2. 9, it probably has the same hymn or creed in mind. We see Jesus crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death. That by the grace of God he may taste death for everyone. Jesus has been crowned with glory and honor because of his obedience unto death, even death on a cross. And why did Jesus humble himself to the point of death on a cross so that he might taste death for everyone? This is a statement of substitutionary death on our behalf for us, the vicarious death, the death of Jesus in our place. Adam sinned against God And so he deserved death. He was told by God that if he disobeyed, he would surely die. Jesus never disobeyed And so he alone, in all of human history, did not deserve to die. But by the grace of God, he tastes death for everyone who would believe in him. In 1 Corinthians 15, 56 to 57, we read, The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus took the sting of death for us. Death emptied its stinger into his hands and feet and side, and the poison is now gone. for all who believe in him, because our sin is atoned for and we are free. Because of his obedience, because of his satisfying work, God raised Jesus from the dead and exalted him to the highest place. It's the Christmas season. It's the season of good news, of great joy for all the people. It's the season of peace on earth for all who believe. Except, honestly We don't really see that, do we? Not always, not fully. We don't really experience the great joy Jesus came to bring, not the fullness of it, and and not even Some of it all the time. Why? It's because we don't yet see the full consummation. The full fulfillment of the plan of God for our full and eternal Redemption. We've received the promise, but it's only with eyes of faith that we see Jesus crowned with glory and honor. Right? Hebrews said that we see him, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor. Do we see him? Only with eyes of faith. The world reduces Jesus. The world marginalizes Jesus. It excludes him. It even ridicules him and those who believe in him. Creation continues laboring under the curse, loved ones die or get very sick, but because Jesus has come, And because Jesus has tasted death for everyone who believes in him, the truth is that the curse has been fundamentally broken. We are forgiven and we are free and we will live in perfect joy forever. This is a truth that we live by faith. even as we wait in hope. In this, as in so many things, Romans 8 gives us the key for how this works. Here Romans 8, starting in verse 18. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time Are not worth comparing with the joy that is to be revealed to us? For the creation waits with eager longing, for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly But because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption, and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now, and not only the creation, but we ourselves. who have the first fruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies, for in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, We wait for it with patience. That's Romans 8, 18 to 25. It's a great passage to read over and over again and ponder. It's part of how we can pay more close attention to these things. It's the Advent season. Advent means waiting. The world waited. for thousands of years for the coming of Jesus. He came. He secured our redemption. He paid the price to set us free. But again we're waiting. The world's been waiting for 2,000 years for him to come again and bring the hope to sight, to bring faith to fulfillment. The time is coming when we will open the joy, the love that we're holding in hope, that we're trusting by faith, and we will enjoy it to its fullness. Soon, Jesus says, I am coming soon. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, thank you for sending your Son Jesus. Oh Jesus, thank you for paying the price for our sins. You've done it. It is finished. And yet we wait. We confess that sometimes it's hard to wait. It's hard to be patient. But you have work for us to do while we wait. You have good work for us to do, telling others about what Jesus has done, spreading his love to a world that needs to see it in action. So help us to wait, but not to wait passively, to wait actively, to wait obediently, to wait faithfully until we see you face to face. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, in honor of the weather today, we're going to respond to God's word and close our worship service by singing together. In the bleak midwinter