Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Dom. from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Glad you're with us as we're in our 14th week together in this wonderful Heidelberg Catechism. Now a catechism, you might think that's a Catholic thing. Catechism Catholic, but it's just It's the centuries-old teaching tool that has been used to instruct people in systems of doctrine, and it's been well used by the church since the very earliest days of the church. A catechism is a series of questions and answers that help you think through an issue or think through a doctrine. In this case, this is a gospel catechism. where it is leading us to gospel comfort by walking us from guilt through grace to gratitude. It was put together in 1563. has been translated in many different languages and used all over the world for five hundred years and has been a blessing to us so far. We are Working our way through the Apostles' Creed right now, and we're on the section that deals with the sufferings of Christ. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig in today. Father in heaven. Thank you so much for sending your Son to be our Savior. And thank you for teaching us about your Son through your word. And thank you for the gift of the Heidelberg Catechism, which helps us to better understand what your word teaches us about your son. We pray that you'd walk us through This truth that we're about to study today by the power of your Holy Spirit to write it on our hearts, illuminate our minds, and change our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name and for his glory. Amen. Okay, from uh question 39 is what was on tap today, and we are in the Apostles Creed. This goes all the way back to question 23, which is part of Lord's Day 7, and we're up to Lord's Day 15. So these 10 uh How many is it? 130 some questions are arranged into fifty-two Lord's Days. Um and so they're meant to be instructed. Within the Reformed Church tradition that the Heidelberg Catechism comes from, they they teach on the Heidelberg Catechism typically as part of their Sunday evening service, and so they have a whole year's worth of teaching. as working their way through the catechism. So question twenty-three asks, what are these articles, the articles of the Christian faith? There's twelve of them in three sections. We call this the Apostles' Creed. I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit. born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified. That's as far as we've gotten. And today we're on question number 39. So we've been asking Why what do you confess when you say that he suffered? That was question thirty-seven. And the answer is during all the time that he lived on earth, but especially at the end. Christ bore in body and soul the wrath of God against the sin of the whole human race. Thus by his suffering as the only atoning sacrifice, he has redeemed our body and soul. from everlasting damnation and obtain for us the grace of God, righteousness, and eternal life. So all that is what we mean when we say he suffered. But then he suffered in a particular way. He suffered under Pontius Pilate. So question 38 asks, why did he suffer under Pontius Pilate as judge? And the answer we looked at last time was, though innocent. Christ was condemned by an earthly judge, and so he freed us from the severe judgment of God that was to fall on us. We talked about penal substitutionary atonement, how Christ bore the penalty. as a substitute, and that's how he made atonement for us on the cross. So there was a judicial process because it was a a penal substitute, a judicial uh sentencing of Christ in our place. Today We come to question 39. Crucified. Does it have a special meaning that Christ was crucified and did not die in a different way? And the answer is yes. Thereby I am assured that he took upon himself the curse which lay on me. For a crucified one was cursed by God. So Christ takes the curse upon himself, and we get his blessing in exchange. We looked at this scripture last time, Galatians 3. 13, and then chapter 4, verses 4 and 5. Galatians 3. 13, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree 4, 4, and 5. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law. so that we might receive adoption as sons. That is Christ coming and being put under the law judicially and being cursed for us. Or do we get this idea that cursed is someone who is hanged on a tree? Well, it goes back to the law, Deuteronomy 21, 23. His body shall not remain all night on the tree, but you shall bury him the same day, for a hanged man is cursed by God. You shall not defile your land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance. So Christ was did not stay on the cross all night. He was buried the same day. He was cursed by God. But in order to not defile the land, because he was actually providing purification for the land, he was buried. Now here we see that even in the law of God, because of the context, it doesn't seem like This is about crucifixion. Crucifixion wouldn't even be invented by the Romans for a thousand years or more after Deuteronomy was written. And so it can't explicitly, directly, and intentionally be about crucifixion, but God the Holy Spirit is the author of Scripture, and he weaves the gospel in to every chapter. And so here we have a gospel picture of Christ, even in a law. This is just a law about if a guy's hanged, you've got to bury him But it becomes, when Christ fulfills it, it takes on its fuller meaning, which the Holy Spirit always intended, that Christ is the one who is the hanged man. hanging on a tree, hanging on a cross, cursed by God. And his body did not remain all night on the tree, but he was buried in the same day. Isaiah 53. 8 speaks of how Christ was cursed for us. It says, by oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? These phrases, taken away and cut off, these are curses. These are judicial curses upon Christ. To be taken away is taken away in judgment and cursed. To be cut off in the land is to be cut off and cursed. By the way, there's a picture of this in the Old Testament sacrament of circumcision. In circumcision, the foreskin is cut off and taken away. It's a picture, a bloody picture, of what Christ would accomplish for us on the cross, and it's foretold here. In Isaiah 53, 8. He was taken away, he was cut off. That means he was cursed for us. One of my favorite teachings on this concept was something that I heard years ago. from the late great Dr. R. C. Sproull, who's now in glory with Christ. And uh this is from something he wrote of devotional forsaken, Jesus cursed by God. But I heard him give this as a sermon. He preached it on several different occasions in several different places. But R. C. Sproul wrote this about Jesus. If there ever was an obscenity that violates contemporary community standards. It was Jesus on the cross. After he became the scapegoat And the Father had imputed to him every sin of every one of his people, the most intense Dense concentration of evil ever experienced on this planet was exhibited. Jesus was the ultimate obscenity. So what happened? God is too holy to look at sin. He could not bear to look at that concentrated, monumental condensation of evil, so he averted his eyes from his son. The light of his countenance was turned off. All blessedness was removed from his son, whom he loved, and in its place was the full measure of the divine curse. That's strong language, but even it doesn't even fully describe what was really happening on the cross when Jesus became sin for us. That's 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He was made sin for us. That's a A man, the Holy Son of God, made into sin, the ultimate obscenity, the ultimate concentration of evil ever experienced on the planet, because all of the sins of all of God's people were put on him all at once. And so he was the Son whom God loved, but he received the full measure of the divine curse because he had been made sin for us. So, coming back to our catechism question, does it have a special meaning that Christ was crucified and did not die in a different way? Yes. Thereby I am assured that he took upon himself the curse which lay on me, for a crucified one was cursed by God. Right. Heavenly Father, what astounding love, what amazing, un untellable, unexpressible grace. That you would give your son and make him a curse for us, for our salvation. We who deserve that curse, Jesus became that curse for us. This is such it's well, well beyond our ability to begin to comprehend and really understand and appreciate. But we thank you for it. And we worship Jesus for it. And we are always eternally in your debt for it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's respond to God's word now, and we're going to sing, O sacred head now wounded. Oh secret down. With grief and shame away thumb now scornfully surrounded with If you want thy own equal Oh sacred head what glory my blessing Thou was I though despised and go I joined your mind. Was though in her game My Mine was the transclash They're the pain, though he like for my salary. And granted. Chao I come to thank the business. Thy beauty wave doubt and will make me thy voice and Now be so can above choice be thy winning thy body growth. I'm just with the high O Lord of Life. Thy glory now to see peace thy cross expiring and free mind. So to D.