Good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you. We're now in our 29th week together. And we've entered into Luke chapter 20. We're going to be looking at verses 1 to 26 and asking a challenging and unusual question. What makes bad religious leaders so dangerous? What makes bad religious leaders so dangerous? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and all that it teaches us, all the ways it challenges us and comforts us. Teach us today from your word and help us to grow in our knowledge and understanding of you and our love for you and your ways. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Luke chapter 20. One day, as Jesus was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came up and said to him, Tell us by what authority you do these things, or who is it who gave you this authority? He answered them, I also will ask you a question, now tell me Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? And they discussed it with one other with one another, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say then, Why did you not believe him? But if we say from man, all the people will stone us to death, for they are convinced that John was a prophet. So they answered that they did not know where it came from And Jesus said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. And he began to tell people this parable. A man planted a vineyard and led it out to tenants and went into another country for a long while When the time came he sent a servant to the tenants, so that they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the tenants beat him and sent him away empty handed, and he sent another servant. But they also beat and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty handed. And he sent yet a third. This one also they wounded and cast out. Then the owner of the vineyard said, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. Perhaps they will respect him. But when the tenants saw him, they said to themselves, This is the heir. Let us kill him, so that the inheritance may be ours. And they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them? He will come and destroy those tenants, and give the vineyard to others. When they heard this, they said, Surely not. But he looked directly at them and said, What then is this that is written? The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on anyone, it will crush him The scribes and the chief priests sought to lay hands on him at that very hour, for they perceived that he had told this parable against them, but they feared the people. So they watched him and sent spies, and pretended to be sincere, so that they might catch him in something he said, so as to deliver him up to the authority and jurisdiction of the governor. So they asked him, Teacher We know that you speak and teach rightly, and show no partiality, but truly teach the way of God. Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar or not? But he perceived their craftiness and said to them, Show me a denarius. Whose likeness and inscription does it have They said, Caesar's. He said to them, Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they were not able, in the presence of the people, to catch him in what he said, but marveling at his answer, they became silent. So why are bad religious leaders so dangerous? Religion has a bad name in our culture, and some of that reputation is deserved. Of course, it's not really fair to classify all people in any category with the same label. After all, even politicians and used car salesmen have honest people among their number, but Jesus certainly had his run-ins and with bad religious leaders. In fact, most of his serious confrontations of sin were with respectable religious leaders. In the end, it was these religious leaders who conspired together to have him killed. So what makes some religious leaders bad and others good, and what makes bad religious leaders so dangerous that they would conspire to kill an innocent man who had healed, fed, and freed people, who's teaching the truth in love, with integrity. In today's passage, we see the characteristics of bad religious leaders. First of all, they care more about political power or money than they do about truth. The religious leaders tried to get Jesus to tell them by what authority he did what he did. They wanted to know who gave him his power and authority. Jesus responded by asking them about John the Baptist, whether his baptism came from heaven or not. They refused to answer, not because they didn't have an opinion, but because they feared the crowds. Men who respect only power and not truth. act out of manipulation and calculation, not sincerely. Second of all, they feel an undue sense of ownership over their religious organization. They believe the church is their church, and the flock is their flock. This was the problem with the tenants of the vineyard in Jesus' parable. They thought the vineyard was theirs to claim for themselves and had forgotten that they were merely caretakers accountable to the master. Third, they pretend to be sincere, but it's just a manipulation tactic. After Jesus told the parable about the vineyard tenants against the religious leaders. They began to manipulate him into making a mistake, or at least trying to manipulate him into making a mistake. And They wanted him to lose favor in front of the people, and so they made a pretense of sincerity as a mask of covering their true intentions. So, how can you know whether a religious leader has these qualities? Watch. See what they do and why they do it. See what they really value and why they value it. With people who are trained in words, like preachers and politicians, their actions matter more than their talk. All kinds of people care about political power and have an undue sense of ownership. All kinds of people are also capable of manipulation. All kinds of people who are politically motivated, entitled, and insincere are politically, or sorry, potentially dangerous, but religious leaders seem to be even more especially so And why is that? What makes them so dangerous? Well, you know, it's one thing for uh political people, entitled, manipulative, uh to be this way when you're dealing with a business. or a political agenda or a product for sale. So if you're a salesperson or a corporate marketer or a politician running for office or somebody running a business, again, being political, being entitled, being manipulative, it's bad, right? But it's more serious, it's more wicked to treat spiritual truth this way, to play fast and loose with legislation. In the political realm, to advantage your supporters is bad, but to play fast and loose with the Word of God in order to gain the favor of people and enrich your bank account is an evil that is beyond that of salesmen and politicians. This is why crooked religious leaders are so dangerous. They take the most precious truths and use them to exalt and advance themselves. There is no fear of God in their hearts, and they are capable of doing almost anything to get their way, even if it means crucifying the Son of God. But religious leaders are not all bad. Jesus was a religious leader and he laid down his life in love for his followers. He appointed his apostles and he sent them out into the world. They were sincere. dedicated and loving. They gave up worldly possessions and positions in order to spread the truth and bless others. So perhaps the best test of religious leaders is this, and it's a convicting one. Do they resemble Jesus and his apostles, or do they resemble the Pharisees? Remember, the stone that the builders rejected became the chief cornerstone Are we willing to share in the rejection so that we might align with his foundation? That's key. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 138. I give you thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart. Before the gods I sing your praise. I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness, for you have exalted above all things your name and your word. On the day I called out, you answered me My strength of soul you increased. All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O Lord, for they have heard the words of your mouth. And they shall sing of the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord. For though the Lord is on high, he regards the lowly, but the haughty he knows from afar. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life. You stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand delivers me The Lord will fulfill his purposes for me. Your steadfast love, O Lord, endures forever. Do not forsake the work of your hands. Well, we see here David, who was both a political and a religious leader, but he was a man after God's own heart. Was he sinless? No. Did he fail often? Yes. But was he sincere? Yes. And we see that because his focus was on God and honoring him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for giving us life through your Son Jesus. Thank you for the example that Jesus set and the apostles set for us. I pray that I would be Christ-like and humble and self-giving, not self-serving. I pray that all of us who have any responsibility of leadership spiritually would do so, following Christ, taking up our cross, following after him, seeking to love others, seeking to lay down our lives for others, seeking to build others up. And not build up our own reputation or our own petty kingdom, but only to serve your kingdom and your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, a new week of devotionals is underway. I hope you can join us for this whole week. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.