Isaiah sixty-three. We are definitely down the home stretch of Isaiah. I'm going to be preaching on verses 1 to 14 of Isaiah 63 today. If you look at the ESV Bible, if you have one of those, you'll see that starting in verse 15, it's a section, a prayer for mercy, that extends from verse 15 of chapter 63 through the end of 64. So that's what I'm planning on preaching next week. Lord willing. And then in two weeks' time, 65, and then in three weeks' time, 66, and then we'll be we'll be done. But here we have uh we've really turned our attention. So um it's been said that Isaiah is the fifth gospel because it has so much of Jesus in it, but it's also been said that Isaiah is the Bible in miniature. And there are 66 books in the Bible. There are 66 chapters in Isaiah. The first 39 books of the Bible are the Old Testament, and there's a clear break at the end of 39 into 40 in Isaiah. You sort of shift from Old Testament to New Testament. in the scope. And it even begins in chapter 40. The very first verses are about John the Baptist, who is the first character we meet in the New Testament. And now we're getting at the end chapters of Isaiah. Well, what's at the very end of the Bible? Revelation. And we read from it, and what we'll see in these chapters is that we're getting into the second coming and the day of judgment and the new heavens and the new earth as we come to the end of Isaiah. So it really is remarkably the Bible in miniature. Isaiah 63 verses 1 to 14, this is God's holy word. Who is this who comes from Edom in crimsoned garments from Basra? He who is splendid in his apparel, marching in the greatness of his strength. It is I speaking in righteousness, mighty to save. Why is your apparel red, and your garments like his who treads in the winepress? I have trodden the winepress alone. And from the peoples no one was with me. I trod them in my anger and trampled them in my wrath. Their lifeblood spattered on my garments. And stained all my apparel, for the day of vengeance was in my heart, and my year of redemption had come. I looked, but there was no one to help I was appalled, but there was no one to uphold. So my own arm brought me salvation, and my wrath upheld me. I trampled down the peoples in my anger. I made them drunk in my wrath, and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth. I will recount the steadfast love of the Lord, the praises of the Lord, according to all that the Lord has granted us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel that He has granted them according to His compassion, according to the abundance of His steadfast love. For he said, Surely they are my people, children who will not deal falsely, and he became their Savior. In all their affliction, he was afflicted. And the angel of his presence saved them. In his love and in his pity, he redeemed them. He lifted them up and carried them all the days of old. But they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit. Therefore he turned to be their enemy and himself fought against them. Then he remembered the days of old of Moses and his people. Where is he who brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he? who put in the midst of them his Holy Spirit, who caused his glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses, who divided the waters before them, to make for himself an everlasting name, who led them through The depths. Like a horse in the desert, they did not stumble, like livestock that goes down into the valley. The Spirit of the Lord gave them rest. So you led your people to make for yourself a glorious name. Let's pray. Father, we need you to speak to us powerfully by your Holy Spirit. We are not here to hear the words of a man. We, all of us, need to hear from you. So speak powerfully by your word through your spirit and teach us better. Who you are, that we might worship you better. What you have promised, that we might trust you better, we might follow you. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. I am guessing that when you go out to eat at a restaurant You do not look over the menu and pick what is least appealing to you, what you think probably will taste really bad, and order that for dinner. Unless you're just a strange person in which case I don't know what to do about that. But I'm guessing that you don't do that, right? We all have a tendency to have a desire for that which is appealing to us and to not want what we find unappealing. But sometimes we can get into dangerous territory with that natural human tendency because we can look at God and who he is. And what he has said. And we can kind of approach it as if it's like a restaurant menu or a buffet line. And we can say, I'll have two helpings of grace with a side of mercy, and you can just hold the justice. and the wrath, please. We want God to be the way that we want him to be because that sort of makes us feel better. It helps us be encouraged. Now most of the time we don't do this kind of We wouldn't say it like that. I'm going to pick and choose the parts of God that appeal to me and ignore the rest. But think, how many hymns and worship songs celebrate the wrath of God? How some of the Psalms, if you read through the Psalms, you get to the imprecatory Psalms that call on God to strike down the wicked. How many of us get a little uncomfortable when we read that and think, oh, I'm not sure how I'm supposed to pray that? That's kind of uncomfortable Or think about what kinds of sermons we prefer to hear. Sermons that encourage us and uplift us with warm gospel reminders or with practical help. We tend to like God when He's forgiving us, loving us, and helping us. But God is who He is. He is all of His attributes perfectly all of the time. There is no fault with God. No aspect of who he is is in any way anything less than perfect. And you can't separate one aspect from another. And if you love God, you wouldn't even want to try. Husbands, as an experiment, when you're home later today with your wife Try pointing out to her the things about her, not sin issues, but just things about her, the things about her that you like, and the things about her that you don't like that you wish were different Okay, please don't do that, because I don't want my phone ringing off the hook this week. We wouldn't do that because when you love someone, you love someone, and God is perfect, unlike us. And so this passage today is interesting because it sets alongside each other things that we think are contradictory or some things that we like along with some things that maybe we don't naturally like. There's talk about vengeance and there's talk about blood, but there's also talk about the steadfast love of the Lord. and the goodness that he has shown, and the year of redemption. And the truth is, if you read the Bible, God's justice and wrath and God's redeeming love for his people always act together and cannot be separated When God delivered his people out of Exodus, which is referenced in this passage, he struck down the firstborn of Egypt. He struck down the army of Egypt in the Red Sea, even as he covered his people with the blood of the land. and led them through the Red Sea on dry ground. Those things were happening at the same time. Earlier in Isaiah We saw how God powerfully delivered his people from the threat, from the oppression that the Assyrians were when this overwhelmingly huge army was coming up against them and they were just this small People that couldn't really defend themselves, even the ambassador from Assyria even mocked them and said, We will give you 2,000 horses. If you have people competent to ride them, and they're facing an army of over 200,000 people. And when God delivered his people from From this oppression, he did so by striking down 185,000 Assyrian warriors in a single night. His power to save is his power to strike down his enemies. And when we want to separate those things, when we want the deliverance and rescue of the Lord without his wrath We become a little bit like a woman who became kind of notorious and she went viral on social media recently because she walked into Whole Foods And she found somebody who worked there, and this is the demand that she made. I want to have a stake It's bone in and grass fed, but vegan. And he said I'm sorry. That doesn't work. She's like, are you saying that you can't help me? It has to be bone-in, it has to be grass-fed, and it has to be vegan. Well, that's what we want if we want. . I want a God who's loving, who's gracious, who will deliver me from all my enemies, who will save me and take me into his eternal, glorious kingdom, but who has no wrath and who's not going to punish the evildoer Okay, go and look for your vegan steak. When you find that, come back and we'll talk. Such a God doesn't exist. Such a God's a figment of our own imagination. And if we're worshiping that God, we're not worshiping the God of the Bible. But the good news is that God is who he is. And we need him to be who he is. You've got two halves to our passage today. Verses 1 to 6, look forward to the coming day of vengeance and salvation. And then verses 7 to 14 look back on the Lord's past dealings with his people, particularly at the time of the Exodus. And really verse 7 is the center, the hinge verse, as I've been looking at this passage. You know, the chapter and verse divisions were added later, like a lot later. When Isaiah gave his prophecy, he didn't say, now I'm going to start chapter 63, and now I'm going to start chapter 64. Those were added later for convenience so that we can find find things because it would be really hard to say we're gonna look at Isaiah, we're gonna study a passage. Well which passage? Where is it? Well it's uh about this, you know, we'd have to find So um I think verses fifteen and on belong in chapter sixty-four. And I think that what we're looking at in what should be chapter sixty three is really verses one to fourteen. I think they go together. And I think thus you have verse seven being the heart of this passage. And hopefully you know by now I've taught you, you look at the heart, you look at the middle to find what's going on. And what we see in verse 7 is a verse that begins and ends with the steadfast love of the Lord. Right. I will recount the steadfast love of the Lord, the praises of the Lord, according to all that the Lord has granted us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel that He has shown according to His So you've got a double Hesed there in the middle. That's the heart of God, the steadfast love. But that steadfast love is shown in the future day of vengeance and wrath, which is also the the time of redemption and mercy and salvation, and also was shown in the past when he dealt with Israel by calling them out of Egypt. For us today, the value this has is it shows us a model for how we go through hardship How we go through times of stress, times of distress, times of anxiety, times when we're overwhelmed. What do we do? Freak out, panic, lash out, get angry, post something on social media. Those are all options, right? Those are all valid options. By the way, I startled my family today when um I was reading over, I always read out loud my sermon notes, and I start of course by reading the passage. And so I started by reading, who is this? Like that loud. And Beth was like, what? What's going on? Sorry, I'm just reading my sermon notes. Because sometimes if I see something shocking or surprising in the news or something like that, I might say, What? What in the world? Why are they doing that? Who would think of such a thing? And without any context at all, I burst out with that. She's like, what is going on? Who did what now? Right? And that's what she thought when I said, Who is this? Anyway, those are options. Not the most helpful options you might have realized So here's what the Bible teaches us to do many, many places, and this is just another one of those places where the Bible teaches us to do this, okay? Based upon who God is. The steadfast love of the Lord, based upon who God is. We look forward in hope to what He has promised to do. We look back in remembrance at what he has done so that we can look up in faith and trust him through what we're going through now. Things are hard. I mean, for Israel, Assyria was kind of fading, but they knew Babylon was coming. And they knew they were headed for exile. So what do they do? They look forward to the day when God will deliver them. They look back on the day when God delivered them from the great world power at the time, Egypt, and in the heart of it they look up to the steadfast love of the Lord, to the praise of the Lord. And that's what this passage is teaching us to do whenever we are overwhelmed. So let's look forward. We have this figure coming from Edom, coming from Basra. By the way, Bosra is the capital of Edom. So it's like coming from England, coming from London, or coming from So Edom. Edom is this land that was to the southeast of Israel. And in scripture Edom represents the persistent, nagging enemies of God's people. They're not a great world power, but they're close at hand. And they were constantly harassing, constantly mocking. Like when the people of Judah were taken off into Babylonian exile. The Edomites were the people who were standing there laughing at them as they were being carried off in bondage. Ah, you got what was coming to you? What's interesting is Herod the Great, the one who ordered the slaughter of the infants in Bethlehem, as well as Herod Antipos, who ordered the beheading of John the Baptist that we uh heard about a little bit in Sunday school as I think. And then these are all these guys, the haired line, were Edomites. And they were enemies of God's people who had come to reign over God's people as kings. So Edom really represents the enemies of God's people. And this is a picture of Jesus. We saw in 61 and 62 it was Jesus speaking. Jesus speaking about what he's going to do in his work as Messiah, how he's going to save his people. So when the question is asked, who is this? Who is this? The answer is, it is I, speaking in righteousness, mighty to save. That's Jesus saying that. It is I. Think about particularly in the Gospel of John. How many times Jesus would say to his disciples when they were freaked out, It is I, which is another way of saying, I am, or I am he. It is I, speaking in righteousness, mighty to save. We need to know that that's the one who's with us That's the one who's for us. But he's got red garments. Why is why red? Red like someone who just trampled in a wine press. Now that's not an activity that any of us have probably engaged in. But if you trample in a wine press squashing red grapes, your clothes get covered in grape juice. So it's not recommended that you wear your best clothes for this activity. But a wine press, you just, it's a community activity usually. So the women a lot of times barefoot would wash their feet and and tie up their skirts and they would get in the wine press and they would stomp the grapes and one of them was tired, another one would take over. But here The garments of Christ are red, not because he's been making wine, but because he's been executing vengeance And we saw earlier when we read from Revelation 19, this picture of Jesus is picked up in Revelation 19. His garments, when he comes riding on the white horse as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, his garments are red. And he says, I have trampled out the winepress of God's wrath. So it's a powerful portrait of the Lord. He's coming to save. Look at the words of salvation here. He says in verse 5, My own arm brought me salvation. Verse 4, the year of redemption had come. So this is a time of redemption and the time of salvation. But then also look at the wrath words. Anger, verse 3, wrath, vengeance, anger, wrath, lifeblood. When you turn to Revelation 14, there's a vision at the end of Revelation 14 that gives us another picture of this day, this coming day. When Jesus was in the world and taught about that coming day, he said it would be the great harvest day. The harvest is the end of the age, Jesus said. And here in Revelation 14, we have an unfolding of this harvest day starting in verse 14. Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud. And seated on the cloud was one like a son of man, with a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand. Okay, Sunday school question time, who is this a picture of? Who? Jesus. Right. Jesus is the one who's like a son of man, who has a golden crown on his head, but he's got a sharp sickle in his hand. And he calls with a loud voice to him who sits on the cloud. Another angel comes And calls to the one sitting on the cloud, Put in your sickle and reap, for the hour to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is fully ripe. So he who sat on the cloud swung his sickle across the earth, and the earth was reaped. Then another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle, and another angel came from the altar, the angel who has authority over the fire. And he called out with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle, put in your sickle and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth, for its grapes are ripe. And the angel swung his sickle across the earth and gathered the grape harvest of the earth and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God, and the winepress was trodden outside the city. And the blood flowed from the wine press as high as a horse's bridle for 1600 stadia. And that's about 200 miles. This is a graphic image. This is a disturbing image. It's supposed to be disturbing. Blood as high as a horse's bridle for 200 miles. The wrath of God against his enemies is real. It is strong. And those people who say, oh well, God's a God of wrath in the Old Testament But Jesus came and showed us the God of love, and Jesus is all about love and mercy. Well, this is Jesus. Jesus said the harvest would come at the end of the age, and this is Jesus. Carrying out the wrath of God. Many of us are uncomfortable with passages like this for a very personal reason. And that is, I would guess, all of us here. Have people we know and love who are close to us, who are right now enemies of God. They're not trusting in Jesus. And they're going to be subject to his wrath unless something changes in their hearts and lives. And that can make us uncomfortable. But I think what it ought to do is drive us to our knees to pray more fervently for their salvation. Because our hearts are also longing for this day. Because this is the day when we see Jesus Face to face. This is the day when we are delivered from all of our enemies. This is the day when true justice comes into the world. Think about when you hear stories of great atrocities in the world, war crimes, horrific things, human trafficking, child trafficking. Massacres of innocent people. And in your heart it cries out for justice. Who is going to make this right? I think of Adolf Hitler, you know, one of the most notorious names in all of human history. responsible for the deaths of some eleven million people in the Holocaust as well as because he basically single-handedly started World War II, he's accountable for the deaths of about forty, fifty million people people who died as a result of World War II. And at the end of his life, he committed suicide. Is there justice? Well, we can all agree. Well, yeah, I hope I hope Luth I hope Hitler faces justice. But our sin is horrific. We sin against God in terrible ways. We don't love him, we're not thankful to him, we don't trust him, we don't do what he tells us to do, we tell him to leave us alone. And that's the sin that lies in every human heart. And that sin is either dealt with on the cross where it is forgiven and cleansed. And we are freed from it, or it is dealt with when Jesus comes again in wrath We long for this day not only because we long for justice to be done, but we long for deliverance from our enemies. I told you, Edom represents The persistent nagging enemies of God's people. What about our enemies? We are painfully aware of our enemies. If you're a believer and you're striving to walk by faith with God day by day, you're striving to be a faithful believer, you are aware of the persistent, nagging presence of enemies. The world with its deceitfulness and its distractions and its enticements and its rebellion against God never stops. Satan and his minions, who mock God and plant seeds of doubt in our hearts and minds, he never stops stops. Our flesh with its nagging selfishness and its destructive desires never stops. And we just some days we're like, Lord, please just deliver me from these enemies. We pray it in the Lord's Prayer, deliver us from evil. He will. On this day. On this great and glorious day, he will deliver us from all of us. And that is a good day. It's the day we pray for in the Lord's Prayer. When we pray, Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. and deliver us from evil, all of those prayers are going to be answered by God that day when Jesus comes again. It is a day of great mercy. It is a day of great salvation. He is going to deliver us from all of our enemies. And we need to remember something. The one who's coming again, and at his second coming, his garments will be stained with the blood of his enemies. He came the first time, and the first time his garments were also stained with blood. But they were stained with his own blood that he willingly shed for those of us who were his enemies. Before he comes to pour out the wrath of God on the earth, he came and took the wrath of God upon himself. Before he comes to trample underfoot the enemies of God, he came and was trampled underfoot by those who hated him and mocked him and reviled him And he did that in love. Those who trust in him Those who have found salvation in him will see very clearly on that day just what he has saved us from. We will see what we deserve and what he can. Took on himself instead. And those who want to escape that day, the door of mercy is wide open now. Today is the day of salvation. Now is the time of mercy. Run to Jesus, cling to Jesus, turn to Jesus, and you can be saved by his blood that he shed for you from being judged for your sin. While God is all of his attributes all the time, and all of his attributes are holy and perfect, the Bible does tell us the heart of God Jesus says of himself that he is gentle and lowly in heart, and that all who come to him find rest. In Lamentations 3, God tells us that he does not afflict the children of men from the heart. God tells us he takes no delight in the death of the wicked, but that it pleased God to send his son to be crushed for our iniquities and to save us. John 3. 17 says, God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world might be saved through him. The steadfast love of the Lord, the goodness that He has granted, according to His compassion, is the heart of God in verse 7. How do we know God's going to act? God's going to keep his promises? Well, we look back and we see that he's kept the promises he's made. In Isaiah 63, the looking back is back to the Exodus. But for us, we live on this side of the cross, and we can look back to the cross of Jesus Christ and say, Say what Romans 8. 32 says, God who did not spare his own son, but freely gave him up for us all, how will he not, along with him, graciously give us all good things? He's going to keep his promises because he paid the highest price to save us. He's not going to pay the highest price to save us and then say, well, you know, maybe not. I've already paid the price. Cost me the dearest thing in the universe to me. It cost me my son, my one and only. But I don't think I'm going to follow through He acts in pity and in compassion, and he saves. Even though We rebel. You can see that if you look at 63 verse 9, in all their affliction, he was afflicted And the angel of his presence saved them. In his love and pity, he redeemed them. He lifted them up and carried them all the days of old. But they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit. Therefore, he turned to be their enemy. and turned and fought against them. Then he remembered the days of old, of Moses and his people. Where is he who brought them up out of the sea? Where With the shepherds of his flock? Where is he who put in the midst of them his Holy Spirit and caused his glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses, who divided the waters before them to make for himself an everlasting name, who led them through the depths Like a horse in the desert, they did not stumble, like livestock that go down the valley. The Spirit of the Lord gave them rest. So you led your people to make for yourself a glorious name. What we see is that even after his people rebelled against him, and he judged them, he did judge them, he told them, You're going to wander in the wilderness for forty years. He was still gracious to them. He still fed them every day with manna from heaven. He still led them by the pillar of cloud and fire, and he still brought their children into the promised land. So that's a picture for us to know. God loves us, God saves us. Sometimes we rebel against him. We do. And sometimes God allows us to suffer the consequences of our rebellion against Him. How many of you, even though you're a Christian, you've done stupid things that you knew were wrong and you suffer consequences as a result of it Anybody? Can I get an amen? But that doesn't mean God gives up on us. He disciplines us for our good. But he disciplines us and he continues to provide for us and to lead us and to bring us and our children into his glorious kingdom. And we need We need to remember that. We need to know that in the now, we might be in the valley of the shadow of death, we might be in the dry desert place. In the now You might be on a mountaintop. You might feel like you're king of the world. But in the now, there are two things that are happening You in your heart have a desire to rebel against God because you still want to kind of kick against and kind of do what you want to do. But God is faithful. And God continues to provide for you, and God continues to lead you, and God continues to bless you. And ultimately, he will keep you by his presence. You may slip and fall, you may cut your knee, you may get caught up in a thorn bush, and you may have to be yanked out by his rod and staff. You may have cuts and bruises, but he's going to put you back on the path, and he's going to give you the refreshment that you need, and he's going to keep leading you. Why is he going to do it? To make for himself an everlasting name, to make for himself a glorious name. That's what we're told in verses 12 and 14. And his commitment to doing that is unbreakable. So therefore his commitment to us is unbreakable. God has tied together the glory of his name and the salvation of his people. people. He will get glory by bringing us all in together at the end. And that means he will not fail. He will not fail. God led his people through the desert wilderness. He provided for their needs. He brought them into the promised land for the glory of his name. In the same way he's leading us by his Holy Spirit through the wilderness of this world, meeting our needs day by day until we are home and settled in the eternal promised land for the glory of his name. So, as we journey through the wilderness of this world As we go through mountains and valleys, along rivers and streams that refresh us, and through dry desert places where we feel very alone, what we need to do. Look forward in hope to the promise of that day that is to come and rejoice in it. Look back on what he's done to save us at the cost of his son. Look up in praise and worship and look for the hand of our good shepherd, providing for us and leading us day. Day by day. A life lived in hope, a life lived in remembrance, a life lived in worship, a life lived by faith. That's what we're called to. Let's pray. Father, thank you that your faithfulness is unfailing. Thank you, Lord Jesus, that you are the one who speaks in righteousness and you are mighty to speak Save. Thank you, Lord, that your steadfast love never fails, and that you will bring us all the way home for the glory of your name. Help us to live day by day in hope and remember. Membrance in worship and in faith. In Jesus' name, amen