Let's turn our attention now to Romans chapter 6, verses 1 through 11. Romans 6, verses 1 through 11. This is God's holy word. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. So that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin. Now, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died, he died to sin once for all, but the life he lives, he lives to God So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we're here to hear from you. We don't need to hear the words of a man, we don't need to hear the opinions of We need to hear your word, inspired by your Holy Spirit, written on our hearts. Help us to understand, help us to receive, help us to believe, help us to respond in faith to what you speak to each one of our hearts this morning. Morning by your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. If you hire someone to come and do something for you that you cannot do for yourself, Say you hire a plumber to fix a plumbing problem that's beyond your scope, or an electrician to hire an electrical problem that's beyond your ability to do Would it make any sense for you to hire this person, have them come into your house, and then you try to show them how well you can do that job? Doesn't make any sense at all, right? I mean we already failed, that's why we had to call the plumber, right? So sometimes in salvation We know that Jesus is our Savior. We know that He came to save us from our sins. We know that He came to do what we can't do for ourselves. But sometimes we think that we're going to impress Him By how good we are at overcoming sin and living righteously. Well, that's the very thing that He came to do for us. We are sinners by nature from birth and also by choice. We cannot keep God's law and earn a perfect righteousness for ourselves. In fact, the Bible tells us that all of our righteous deeds are as filthy rags. Even if we could, let's hypothetically say we could start obeying God's law perfectly today, we would have no way of atoning for all of our past sins. Most people have this idea that somehow they're going to stand before God and He's going to put all their good deeds in one side of the scale and all their bad deeds on the other side of the scale. And as long as it tips out Then they'll get into heaven. That's not the way justice works. Imagine a serial killer going on trial and saying There are far more people I interacted with that I didn't kill than the people I interacted with that I did kill. Let's balance it out, Judge. Or maybe we don't understand the seriousness of our sin, because it is treason against the king of the universe and the one who made us. So on our own, apart from Christ, we know that we're stuck, we're condemned, we're in desperate need of rescue. And the good news of the gospel is that Jesus came to the rescue. We've been thinking about that. During our Advent series, during Romans, Jesus came to rescue us. And he did all the work. He earned the righteousness that we could never earn. He is our righteousness, and so we lack nothing in him. He paid for all of our sins with his precious blood on the cross. We are completely forgiven and free in him. And at the end of Romans 5, Paul even says that wherever sin increased, grace abounded all the more. Grace superabounded. This could lead to thinking, well, if I have a perfect righteousness, that's Secure in Jesus, and all of my sins have already been paid for by His precious blood. And if grace abounds wherever sin increases Well, I guess I can sin as much as I want to because God will just make it right I can sin all I want. It won't affect my righteousness. It won't decrease the forgiveness. In fact, grace will superabound. That makes logical sense, right? Well, it makes diabolical logical sense is what the kind of logic it makes. Paul rejects this kind of thinking. He just rejects this kind of thinking with the strongest possible negative in the Greek in the opening of Romans 6. He says, by no means, he says, absolutely not, or God forbid, or just no way. Because it's a diabolical logic that actually rejects the love of God and the salvation Jesus won for us at the cost of his life. And so this is how Paul responds. What are we to say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. Absolutely not. God forbid. How can we who die to sin still live in it? So here's your fill-in-the-blank. Thinking that God's abundant grace gives us an excuse to keep sinning misses the point of grace. It is his amazing grace, but it is his saving grace. He came to save us from sin. doesn't actually free us from the reign of sin is a misunderstanding of the gospel at its most fundamental level. I'm going to give you a mental image to think about what this is like. Okay? And I think the boys will particularly enjoy this one. Imagine that you have fallen into a very deep, very dark, muddy, and disgusting pit. Full of snakes and scorpions. And you're in that pit and you've been bit by the snakes and you've been stung by the scorpions so much that you are just in a heap. On the bottom of that pit, out cold, unable to do anything to help yourself Now imagine someone comes. And they have a great big ladder, and they lower that ladder all the way down to the bottom of the pit. They come down into the pit with the antidote you need for the poison. They treat you with the antidote as you come alive and come awake. You see this person and they're like, I'm here to rescue you. Oh, you're so relieved. I'm going to take you out of this pit. I'm going to put you on the ladder. I'm going to help you up the ladder. I'm not going to leave you. I'm going to be with you every step of the way. If you slip on the ladder, I'm going to catch you. I'm going to put you back on the ladder. If as you're climbing up the ladder, some snake or scorpion comes along and bites you or stings you, I've got more antidote, we can handle it, I'm gonna get you all the way out of this pit. Now imagine you get on the ladder with this guy, and then you say, wait a minute. You have all the antidote I could ever need, right? Yeah? And you're never going to leave me, right? Yeah. And you're committed to getting me all the way out of this pit, right? Yeah. Great! That means I can jump right back down to the bottom and hang out with the snakes and scorpions again! What do you think your rescuer would say? What? Are you out of your mind? This is what I came to save you from And that's why Paul is like, you're thinking, what? Because grace abounds? You can sin as much as you want? Have you lost your mind? No way. That misses the entire point of the grace of God. I mean snakes are cool. Scorpions are kind of cool too. But you know that you don't want to play with them and get bit or stung. Sin makes promises. It it entices But it's deadly. It's awful. It brings ruin. It brings sorrow and consequences. And the power of God's grace Empowers us to die to the mastery of sin in our lives and leads us in a salvation where we are progressively Dying to sin, living to righteousness, putting off the old self, putting on the new self, following Jesus on the road to righteousness until we are all the way home. The heart of how this happens is that the Holy Spirit works faith in us, and by faith we are united to Christ. We have union with Christ. Christ is in us, and we are in Him. You see, salvation is not just a transaction. It's not a get out of hell free card. It's not just I'll clear the ledger, I'll secure your ticket to heaven, you go on your merry way, I'll go on my merry way. It's not that. It's union. It's a marriage Union with Christ. And so Paul says, how can we, who have died to sin, live in it any longer? Because we are united to Christ by faith, everything Christ did for us and for our salvation counts for us as if we have done it. Because we have done it in Christ. Or rather, God has done it in us in Christ. And so when Christ Jesus became sin, 2 Corinthians 5. 21, God made him who knew no sin to To be sin for us, so that through him we might become the righteousness of God. When Jesus was made sin for us and died on the cross, he died to sin. We died to sin in him. Notice it's an accomplished reality. We who died to sin. Martin Lloyd-Jones in his commentary says, in his sermon, says, dying to sin is not something we do, or even something we have done, but it's something that has been done to us. We are not trying to die to sin. We have died to sin through Jesus Christ. Now later in Romans 8. Paul's going to tell us that we are to kill sin by the power of the Spirit. So we have to understand there's a biblical distinction between living in sin in sinning. All people sin. As long as we're in this world, we're never going to arrive at perfection. We're never going to get to a sinless state where we say, I never sin anymore. In fact, the deeper we go in the Christian life, the deeper we understand what sin is, that sin is our thoughts and our words as well as our deeds. And it's the things we leave undone, as well as the things that we do. It's when we fail to love God and love our neighbor, as well as when we do bad stuff that we know we're not supposed to do. Or when we're new Christians, we kind of have a simplistic understanding. Sin, what's sin? Well, sin is the bad stuff I do that I know I'm not supposed to do. And that is certainly one category of sin. The bad stuff I do that I know I'm not supposed to do. I shouldn't curse at people, I shouldn't hit people, I shouldn't steal things, I shouldn't lie to people. So this bad stuff that I do, I ought to stop doing. Yes, we should. But that's just one level of sin. Sin is also our thoughts and desires to do those things. Sin is also the words. That we say. And it's also all the things we leave undone. And so it's deep. And so there's nobody who doesn't sin. Right, 1 John says, if we make out that we have no sin, we're actually calling God a liar. Because God says we all sin. And yet the distinction is we're not to be living in sin. And what living in sin means is that we're continuing to have a lifestyle of sin as though Jesus saving us hasn't made any difference and won't really make any difference. At all. But our union with Christ makes it impossible to stay there. If we've been united to Christ, we can't stay in that same state that we were before we were united to Christ. Then Paul goes on to elaborate this union using the language of baptism. Verses 3 and 4. He says, Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into his death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life And these are the two verses that I thought, well, maybe it's a good idea to put together something on why we baptize infants because you could read this and say, well, this looks like it's believers baptism by immersion. It's not. Because actually Paul's not primarily talking about water baptism here. Here's your next fill in the plank. Water baptism. Is a picture and a promise of spirit baptism, which unites us to Christ in his death and resurrection It is not getting wet, no matter how much water is used, and no matter at what stage in our life it's used. It's not getting wet that unites us to Christ in his death and burial and resurrection. It is the work of the Holy Spirit. It is spirit baptism. at working faith in us that unites us to Christ. And so, just like in the Old Testament, physical circumcision, which was given to babies, covenant children, it was a picture of a need for heart circumcision. Right? They were circumcised in the flesh, and God said to them, circumcise your hearts. And then God promised them, I will circumcise your hearts. It was never about. A little bit of physical circumcision. It was about their need for heart circumcision. Water baptism is a sign. It points to the deeper spiritual reality. We need spirit baptism. We need the work of the Holy Spirit poured out by the Father. to wash us and unite us to Christ, and then to seal to our souls all the benefits of Christ's redemption. When he says all of us who have been baptized by the Spirit into Jesus Christ have been united to him In his death and resurrection, we have to say that is just not true of everyone who has been baptized by water, no matter when or how they were baptized. Lots of people have believers baptism by immersion. But because it was a false profession or a hypocritical profession or just an emotional response in the moment, there's not the real work of the Spirit there And lots of children had been baptized as infants as a promise of what God will do, and that promise has not been seen to come about yet because of the number of circumstances. But it's ultimately Spirit baptism and our union with Christ in his death. And his resurrection, that is the point of what water baptism points us to and what spirit baptism accomplishes in us. And it is that accomplished reality. That forms the basis for living as a Christian. This is so important. It's Jesus' accomplished reality on the cross. In the empty tomb, in ascending into heaven, in interceding for us. It's Jesus' accomplished reality, but then it's also the Spirit uniting us to Christ and putting all of that in us as we are in Christ and He is in us. That is the done foundation for living as a Christian. And Paul's driving that home here. So we go on, he goes into more detail in verses 5 to 10. He says, For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. That's true. That should cause our hearts to say, Amen. Hallelujah. Come, Lord Jesus Because if we've been united to Christ by faith in his death, we will be united to Christ in our bodies, in the resurrection, when he comes again. That means we will be resurrected just as surely as Jesus was resurrected. with the same kind of resurrection body. We look forward to that in hope, and our basis of hoping for that is knowing that we're already united to Christ in his death. Reading on verse 6, we know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we might no longer be enslaved to sin. For the one who has died has been set free from sin. Now, if we've died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died, he died to sin once for all, but the life he lives, he lives to God. Here's the main point for filling the If we died with Christ, we will also live with Christ. Sin and death no longer rule a believer who is in Christ And that's important, that ruling idea, that mastery. We're not under sin's mastery. We're not under sin's rule anymore The key is found in this word united. So at the beginning of verse five. It's one of the very few places that Paul actually uses this word. He talks about being in Christ, being in him, but this is one of the few places where he actually uses this word united. And it's a word that means grown together or planted together. And it's an image that you might be familiar with if you've ever walked through the woods and observed things. Sometimes two trees get planted so close together that when they start to grow up, they grow into being basically one tree. And there's no way to really separate them from each other. So Paul's borrowing this word, this word picture. We are in Christ, and Christ is in us. That means everything that could be said true about Christ is true about us. For Paul, this is not an abstract point of theology. It's his life. This is how he says it in Galatians 2. 20. He says, I've been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. So in Romans he says, if we've been united with him in a test like his, in Galatians he says, I have been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live. It is Christ who lives in me. This is what happens to us when we come to Christ. This is a God-accomplished reality. And if it's true in the negative that we died with him, then the positive is also true, we live. We live to God, and we will be raised with him. You can't separate Jesus' death and resurrection. You can't separate being with him in his death and being with him in his resurrection. So what does that mean? What it means is that if that's true of us, then our fundamental relationship to sin and our fundamental relationship to God has been changed Before we knew Christ, and if you're here today and you don't yet know Christ, maybe you've heard about Jesus, maybe you know about Jesus, but you don't yet know Jesus, you're not yet trusting in him. Anyone who's not in Christ, the Bible says, is dead to God and living in sin. That's the relationship. Living in sin, dead to God. Ephesians 2 paints a beautiful picture of it. We looked at it last week. We're walking dead. We're like zombies. We're completely dead to God. No ability to think about God rightly or relate to God rightly, and yet we're carrying out our lives living in sin. That's who we are without Christ. But in Christ, that gets flipped on its head. We're dead to the mastery of sin and we're alive to God. We come alive to God. How do you know? How do you know if that's true of you or not? Do you believe in Jesus? Well how do you know? How do you know it's not just an intellectual thing where it's like, yeah I know that Jesus is the Son of God, and I know that He died on the cross for my sins, and I know that He rose again from the dead, and I know that if I believe in Him, I'll have eternal life. That's not saving faith. Scott Adams, the famous cartoonist who drew Dilbert, which used to be one of my favorite comic strips, he died. of cancer this past week. And he had publicly announced Shortly before his death, that his Christian friends had persuaded him to convert to Christianity before he dies. Because he said, what do I have to lose? If this is all true Then I get heaven, I get eternal life. I don't really know if it's true or not, but hey, what do I have to lose? If it's not true, I end up in the same place I would have ended up anyway, which is just annihilated. So he says he believed in Christ's death for him. And he says he converted to Christianity. That's not saving faith. It's not. It's like uh, well, I'm gonna die. I really don't like the idea of hell. I really kind of like the idea of heaven. Um all right, Jesus, if you're real, get me out of hell. That's not saving faith. Now I can't say with 100% certainty that God Adams didn't go to heaven. Maybe in those final moments God worked something in his heart that was Saving faith, but the way that he had expressed it in his video that he released several weeks ago was not an expression of saving faith. What is? How do we know? Well, it's really in this idea of dead to sin, alive to God. This is really the heart of it. And it is a matter of the heart. Do you love God and do you hate sin? Do you love God? Do you love Jesus? Not for the stuff he gives you, even getting you out of hell, but for who he is. What would you say to me if I said to you, I love Beth's cooking? She's a fantastic cook. I love her hugs. They're just so comforting. I love the way she smells. I love what a great mom she is. I love what a kind and considerate person she is. She helps me to be more kind and considerate. And then you were to say, but do you love her? And what if like a lot of that stuff went away? What if she couldn't cook anymore? What if she gets dementia? And what if I were to say to you, I don't I don't know, man. I mean I get a lot of good benefits out of this relationship. You would say, red flag, major alarm bells, something ain't right. Because I love her. for who she is. And she loves me for who I am, which is a much harder task. But that's so this is this is it, right? It's it there's no simple do you love God and do you hate sin? Now I don't mean you hate the consequences of sin. You wish you could sin and get away with it, but you know you can't, so uh I guess I'll stay away from sin. Do you hate sin? Have you come to the place where you're like, sin is disgusting. It's an offense to God. It's corruption to my soul. I hate it. I still do it, because I'm still wrestling with a sinful nature and I still live in a fallen world, but I hate it. You love God and do you hate sin? If that's true, then that means you're alive to God and you're dead to sin. In the way that Paul's talking about in Romans 6. He's not talking about perfectionism. He's talking about The mastery of sin, that lying, deceiving voice of sin that says, this is what life's really all about. Living for yourself, living for your own pleasure, having it your way. You say, that is just garbage. That is a lie. I hate that. I love God. And I know what life is really all about. It's about loving God and loving others. Living for the glory of God, living for my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and loving those He's put in my life. And I want to do more of that. If that's true of you, then that is the sign that you have real saving faith because you've passed from death to life. You are now alive to God and dead to sin. And if that's true of you, it's true of you because of what Jesus has done for you and because of what the Spirit has done in you. It's not true because of anything you've done. It's true because of what Jesus has done for you and of what the Spirit has done in you. And you should thank God for that, and you should live that out in your life. Here's some other scriptures that Paul gives us to help us think about this and how this affects us. 2 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verses 14 to 17, he says this For the love of Christ controls us, because we have concluded this. That one has died for all, therefore all have died. Do you see that union with Christ? Because one died for all, therefore all died. And he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. Again, this is what has been done for us. And then Colossians 3. If then you have been raised with Christ. Seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of the God of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on the earth, for you have died. And your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. What is done provides the foundation and the power for what we are called to do. So much of the Christian life and living it rightly is coming down to understanding the difference between done and do. Done is what's been an accomplished fact by Jesus, by the Spirit. Do is the commands that were given to live out. I want to point out something to you to drive this point home that I think is pretty amazing. So far we've come up to verse 10 of chapter 6. We haven't really talked about verse 11 yet. So we're up to verse 10 of chapter 6 of Romans. We've been in Romans since September. Took a little break in December, but we've been in Romans since September. Chapter 1, Chapter 2, 3, 4, 5, first ten verses of chapter 6. Guess how many things the Lord has told us that we are to do? In all that part of Romans, how many commands has he given us? None. There is not a single imperative. There is not a single do this in all of Romans from 1. 1 to 6. 10. None. Why? Because he's telling us what's been done. He's telling us what we've done, that is, we've sinned and falling short of the glory of God and deserving hell. And then he's told us what Christ has done in that wonderful paragraph that's so key in 321 to 26. And then he's told us how we come to share in that. In justification. You see, where we are right now is the beginning of chapter 6. It's a hinge. We're moving from justification to sanctification. And in the work of justification, guess what we do in the work of justification? Nada. Zilch. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. We receive and we rest upon Him. We believe on Him. But even that ability to believe is given to us by God, the gift of faith. It's all done for us. Now we go to sanctification. Here's the thing. Sanctification is still the work of God. It's still the work of God's grace. We confessed that earlier. But now there is something for us to do. So from now on, we're going to start seeing more imperatives, more do's. in the book of Romans. And the first one comes in six eleven So you also must. Here's your due. So you also must. Consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Consider yourselves. It's actually an accounting term. It comes from recording in a record book and an account book. Write down in your spiritual account book That you are dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. That's the first command we're given. Why? Here's your fill in the blank. Why are we giving this as the first command? Because understanding our union with Christ should transform how we consider ourselves and our relationship to sin and to the world. And to God, sorry. Understanding our union with Christ should transform how we consider ourselves and our relationships to sin and to God. That's the first step. The first step, another way to think about it is If we're going to live the kind of Christian life that the Apostle Paul lived, the first step in that is to consider true about ourselves the first thing that Paul considered true about himself, which is we are dead to sin and we are alive. Now this is, we need to understand what this consider means. It's an accounting book. It's writing down in your account ledger what is true. That kind of word means this is not wishful thinking. This is not the power of positive thinking. This is not manifest your blessing or any of that other unbiblical garbage that swirled around there in the culture. This is not what it is. It is taking into account what has actually been done. If I were to deposit a million dollars in your bank account Tuesday. We could say tomorrow, but I think tomorrow's a bank holiday. So Tuesday. If I were to deposit a million dollars in your bank account on Tuesday, you could then live as if you have that million dollars. Maybe you could pay off your house mortgage, maybe you could pay off all your debts, maybe you could put some money in your kids' college, whatever you're going to do with it, but you could now live as if you had that million dollars because it's actually been deposited to your account. But if I were to come up to you after church today And I were to give you a million dollars in monopoly money, I suggest that you not take that seriously and think that you actually have a million dollars. Please don't go to your mortgage lender and start counting out monopoly money to pay off your mortgage. Listen, this is why I'm thinking that absurd thing. Many Christians, I think, live their lives as if what Jesus did for us is monopoly money. We're like, oh, I just I just can't change. I just don't know how to live any differently. I just I just can't do it. I'm not good enough. I'm not worthy enough. I'm not I'm not Of course you are not. But the Lord didn't give you monopoly money in your spiritual bank account. He gave his perfect righteousness and his shed blood and his Holy Spirit And so we can consider ourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. We need to live what Christ has secured for us and given to us. How do we do that? Well that's going to be a lot of what the next part of Romans is about. We'll get into that next week. But the first thing, the first step is believe it. Because it's You don't have to be a slave to sin. I'm not telling you you're never going to sin again. That's not what I'm saying to you. I'm saying to you, you don't have to be held in bondage under slavery to sin. Because sin is no longer your master if you are in Christ. You can only have one master. And if Jesus is your master, then sin isn't. Amen? Let's pray. Father, thank you for the work that you have done what you have accomplished in sending your son to take away all of our sin and secure a perfect righteousness for us in pouring out your spirit upon us. who unites us to Christ so that we have all of his righteousness and we have freedom from the tyranny of the devil, from the tyranny of sin. We thank you that that has been accomplished. It is done. Help us to live in the light of that truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.