Isaiah thirty-six and thirty-seven. All of Isaiah to this point has really been building up to this climactic moment. We've made many references to this event. We've read excerpts of this passage. in previous sermons, but here is the moment, the moment of trust and the moment of deliverance, the test and the triumph of God. The word of God. In the 14th year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them. And the king of Assyria sent the Rabshekah from Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem with a great army. And he stood by the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the washer's field. And there came out to him Eliakim. The son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder, and the Rabshekah said to them: Say to Hezekiah, Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria, on what do you rest this trust of yours? Do you think that mere words are strategy and power for war? In whom do you now trust? that you have rebelled against me. Behold, you are trusting in Egypt, that broken reed of a staff which will pierce the hand of every man any man who leans on it Such is Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to all who trust in him. But if you say to me, We trust in the Lord our God, is it not he whose high places and altars Hezekiah has removed? Saying to Judah and Jerusalem, you shall worship before this altar. Come now Make a wager with my master, the king of Assyria. I will give you two thousand horses if you are able on your part to set riders on them How then can you repulse a single captain among the least of my master's servants when you trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? Moreover, is it without the Lord that I have come up against this land to destroy it? The Lord said to me, Go up against this land and destroy it. Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah said to the Rabshaka, please speak to your servants in Aramaic. For we understand it, do not speak to us in the language of Judah within the hearing of the people who are on the wall. But the Rabshaka said, Has my master sent me to speak these words to your master and to you and not to the men sitting on the wall who are doomed with you to eat their own dung and drink their own urine Then the Rabshekah stood and called out in a loud voice in the language of Judah. Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria. Thus says the king, do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you. Do not let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord by saying, the Lord will surely deliver us. This city must not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria. Do not listen to Hezekiah. For thus says the king of Assyria, make your peace with me, and come out to me. Then each of you will eat of his own vine, and each one of his own fig tree. and each one of you will drink the water of his own cistern until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and wine, a land of bread and vineyards. Beware, lest Hezekiah mislead you by saying, the Lord will deliver us. Has any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria? Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Shephraim? Have they delivered Samaria out of my hand? Who among all the gods of these lands have delivered their lands out of my hand that the Lord should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand? And But they were silent, and answered him not a word, for the king's Command was, do not answer him. Then Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna his son Secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn and told him the words of the Rabshaka. As soon as King Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the Lord, and he sent Eliakim. Who was over his household, and Shebna the secretary, and the senior priests, covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amaz. They said to him, Thus says Hezekiah. This day is a day of distress, of rebuke, and of disgrace. Children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth. It may be That the Lord your God will hear the words of the Rabshekah, whom his master, the king of Assyria, has sent to mock the living God, and he will rebuke the words. That the Lord your God has heard. Therefore lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left. When the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah, Isaiah said to them, Say to your master, thus says the Lord. Do not be afraid, because of the words that you have heard with which the young men of the king of Assyria have reviled me, behold, I Will put a spirit in him, so that he shall hear a rumor and return to his own land. And I will make him fall by the sword in his own land. The Rabshika returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libna, for he had heard that the king had left Lachish Now the king heard concerning Tirhaka, king of Cush, he has set out to fight against you. And when he heard it He sent messengers to Hezekiah saying, Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah, king of Judah, do not let your God In whom you trust, deceive you by promising that Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Jerusalem Of Assyria, behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, devoting them to destruction. And shall you be delivered? Have the gods of the nations delivered them, the nations that my fathers destroyed, Gozan, Haran, Rezeth, the people of Eden who were in Teleassar? Where is the king of Hamath the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, the king of Henna, the king of Ivah? Hezekiah received The letter from the hand of the messengers and read it. And Hezekiah went up to the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. And Hezekiah prayed to the Lord. Lord, O Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, enthroned above the cherubim, you are the God. You alone of all the kingdoms of the earth, you have made heaven and earth. Incline your ear, O Lord, and hear Open your eyes, O Lord, and see and hear all the words of Sennacherib, which he has sent to mock The living God, truly, O Lord, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the nations and their lands, and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were no gods But the work of men's hands, wood and stone, therefore they were destroyed. So now, O Lord our God, save us from his hand. that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you alone are the Lord. Then Isaiah the son of Amos sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, because you have prayed to me, Concerning Sennacherib, king of Assyria, this is the word that the Lord has spoken concerning him. She despises you. She scorns you, the virgin daughter of Zion. She wags her head behind you, the daughter of Jerusalem, whom have you mocked and reviled? Against whom have you raised your voice and lifted up your eyes to the heights against the Holy One of Israel. By your servants you have mocked the Lord And you have said, With my many chariots, I have gone up at the heights of the mountains to the far recesses of Lebanon to cut down its tallest cedars, its choicest cypresses. to come to its remotest height, its most fruitful forest. I dug wells and drank waters to dry up with the sole of my foot all the streams of Egypt. Have you not heard that I determined it long ago? I planned from days of old what I now bring to pass That you should make fortified cities crash into heaps of ruins, while their inhabitants, shorn of strength, are dismayed and confounded And have become like plants of the field and like tender grass, like grass on the housetops, blighted before it has grown. I know you're sitting down and you're going out and coming in, and you're raging against Me. Because you have raged against me, and your complacency has come to my ears, I will put a hook in your nose And my bit in your mouth, and I will turn you back on the way by which you came. And this shall be the sign of the This year you shall eat what grows of itself, and in the second year what springs from that. Then in the third year, sow and reap and plant vineyards and eat their fruit. And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit upward. For out of Jerusalem shall go a remnant. And out of Mount Zion, a band of survivors, the zeal of the Lord of hosts, will do this. Therefore, thus says the Lord, concerning the king of Assyria. He shall not come into this city, or shoot an arrow there, or come before it with a shield, or cast up a siege mound against it. By the way he came, by the same he shall return. And he shall not come into this city, declares the Lord, for I will defend this city to save it for my own sake and for the sake of my servant David. And the angel of the Lord went out and struck down 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians. And when the people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies. Then Sennacherib, king of Assyria, Departed, and returned home, and lived at Nineveh, and as he was worshiping in the house of Nisrach his God, Adramelech and Sharizer his son. Struck him down with the sword, and after they escaped into the land of Ararat, Eesar hadon his son reigned in his place. This is God's word. Let's pray. Father, what marvelous deliverance and what awesome power you show over the hearts of men and over the armies of nations. You are sovereign over all. Help us to trust you to deliver us. For that is the heart of the issue before us every day of our life. So help us to walk in these things. In Jesus' name. Amen. From February twenty-third until March sixth of eighteen thirty-six, uh at a small Spanish mission in Texas. Somewhere between 185 and 260 men were surrounded by 2,000 Mexican soldiers. But by the end of the final assault on March sixth, only two men fighting for Texas had survived, all the rest inside the Alamo. Lay dead, including Davy Crockett and Jim Bowie. You probably already know something about the Alamo and that famous last stand of Davy Crockett and Jimmy the great American hero and Jim Bowie, that great frontiersman and fighter. But here's something you might not have known. The men in the Alamo, you see, the Mexican troops moved in on February 23rd, and it wasn't until March 6th. That the final assault happened and the battle was over. On February 23rd, when the Mexican army first moved into San Antonio, the men in the Alamos sent word to the United States and said, We need troops, we need help. Please send us reinforcements. But the United States had a treaty with Mexico and that would be an open act of war, so they just sent a hundred men against two thousand. And that obviously wasn't Adequate. And so they were overwhelmed because they had only earthly help to read Now, I have to confess to you that when I read these chapters in Isaiah, which are, you might have guessed, among my favorite chapters in the Bible, put them on the list. Um I don't think about the Alamo. Those of you who know me probably know exactly what I always think of when I think of these chapters. I think of Helm's Deep from the Two Towers, Lord of the Rings. About a thousand uh soldiers of Rohan are inside of Helm's Deep, this great fortress. And they're surrounded by 10,000 Urukai, these fearsome, nasty, demonic orc warriors that Saruman has bred. So they're outnumbered ten to one. And there's absolutely no possibility that they in and of themselves can withstand, even though they do have Aragorn and Legolas and Gimli. But you know There's too many. Until, until, right? Look to the east at dawn on the third day And in comes Gandalf the White, leading with him thousands of Rohan soldiers who had been sort of kicked out when when Theodon was under evil influence. And anyway, they come riding over. The scene in the movie is wonderful. Just the light breaks at dawn and the army rides over and Gandalf the White is there. And Jarrett Tolkien was deliberately Christian in his imagery. You know, it's the morning of the third day when deliverance comes. It's Gandalf the White, who's a picture of the resurrected Christ. in his glorious power. It is it is supernatural deliverance, is really what it is. And because supernatural deliverance comes, Rohan wins the battle. And the Urukai are destroyed. Now what we have here is we have something that combines the best of those two things. Alright? Because we have people who are outnumbered. And people who get divine assistance, but it's not a made-up story. It's something that actually happened in real history. In fact, the events before us today are among some of the best attested in ancient history. I think it was last week Jeff sent me, or week before Jeff sent me two weeks ago, a text of like, is this the same campaign that Herodotus references? And I was like, oh yeah. I remember something vague about that. And so I looked it up and did a little bit of research. And yeah, Herodotus, this ancient Greek historian, not a Christian, not a believer, uh, he writes about this campaign of Sennacherib again. against Judah and how he defeated the fortified cities of Judah, but then he came up against Jerusalem. And in Herodotus' account, it's a plague of mice Who come and wipe out the Assyrian army. Other historians say it was some sort of septicemic plague that broke out in the But there's historical evidence that the army of Assyria had conquered all the cities of Judah and was marching on Jerusalem when it was wiped out all of a sudden. in a way that nobody foresaw. In fact, archaeologists uncovered this great Monument to Sennacherib recounting all of his great war victories, and on that monument is the Siege of Lachish. And it depicts Lachish with referenced here as being the town that he took. And then in the writing about that, the rules for all of this stuff is you only write good things about the king. You don't write anything bad that the king did or anything the king failed to do, or unless you don't live. And so what they said in this monument to Sennacherib was, he took all the fortified cities of Judah, he took Lachish. And he got King Hezekiah shut up in Jerusalem like a bird in a cage. And that's the end of the inscription. Hmm, I wonder why they didn't say that he conquered Jerusalem. Because he didn't, right? And then if you look at your insert, I apologize that it's so small. And yes, I need reading glasses for this to be anything but a blur. But all you need to see is that there's a little island of yellow in the middle of a sea of green. Okay? The sea of green is the Assyrian Empire, and the island of yellow unconquered is Judah. That's historical fact. Judah was the only place in that part of the world that was never conquered by Assyria. Now, after this, after this event, the Assyrian Empire lasted another 100 years. And there are other kings that rise and they expand their and they never again attack Judah. Why? Because it didn't go so well for them. And they knew that it wasn't going to go well for them. It wasn't until the Babylonians rise up that God said, okay, time's up, you're going to go into exile. So here's my question for you, because Romans tells us that all these things that were recorded in the past were recorded for our benefit. Right, so that we could learn from them. So so here it is for us, right? The question for you is this when's the last time you faced an enemy? who was so overwhelming or a problem that was so big that it was just too much for you to handle You can probably think of some. Here's the truth, though. That probably happened to you more recently than you realize See, God is so faithful in protecting us and defending us. Christ is so faithful in interceding for us that actually on a daily basis We face the world and its opposition to Christ. We face Satan and his hostile attacks. We face our own flesh and its Desire to rebel. We face those enemies every day of our lives, and they are much too strong for us to handle. But God faithfully defends us and protects us in ways that we're not even aware of. But we've all had those experiences where we felt overwhelmed. We felt the pressure of it. We felt that situation. That was too much for us. And we needed to know who we could trust, and we needed deliverance. Today's passage is one we need to remember when we're struggling, because two things in this passage are very clear. The first is that God's people were facing an enemy who was much too strong for them. They had no hope for victory in and of themselves. But the second thing that is also equally clear is that the overwhelming enemy they faced was absolutely no match for the Lord. No contest. God didn't have to work hard. God didn't have to plan. God didn't have to strategize. God didn't have to figure it out. God didn't have to wonder what he was going to do. He waited, he acted, it was over. That's what we need to remember. The Rapshika, we're going to focus a lot of our attention on the Ravshika and then the response to the Rabshika and then God's response. So we're going to sort of break it down in those three ways. There's kind of a different outline here bulletin, and we'll sort of follow that. A lot of the body of this passage is given to the dialogue of the Rabshika. Who's the Rabshika? Well, the title means chief cup-bearer. And it's a title that means basically the highest ranking court official. And in the Assyrian Empire, the Rabshika basically functioned as The Secretary of State and the Secretary of War combined. He's like the big kahuna. He's the big dog within the Assyrian. Empire. He's an ambassador, but he's also a commander. And he comes, so he comes representing the greatest earthly power. An earthly power that is certainly many, many times larger. The other thing that's different about this passage from my two earlier examples of the Alamo and Helm's Deep. Is that in both the Alamo and Hell's Deep, the people inside were outnumbered about 10 to 1 by the army that surrounded them? Here, it's clear they're outnumbered much more than 10 to 1. It's it's much more than that because the mocking is, we'll give you two thousand horses if you can find that many qualified horsemen to ride it, and then he says, How can you oppose the least of the captains of the the smallest part of our army. Like he's saying like eight ninety-five percent of us could go home and we could just leave one junior captain over a small detachment, you guys wouldn't have any hope. That's how outnumbered they are. This Ravshika is brilliant. He is, boy, he's a politician. He is a spin master. He knows how to uh tell a tale that's mixed in with a lot of truth. It's the thing we need to realize. The most effective lies have lots and lots of truth in them. A lot of what the Ravchika says here is absolutely true That whole thing about 2,000 horses, that's true. The whole thing about being that outnumbered, that's true. The whole thing he says about, hey, you're trusting in Egypt. And Egypt's like leaning on a broken reed. It's going to pierce your hand. That's true. In fact, that language is almost identical to what Isaiah himself had said about trusting in Egypt just a couple of chapters earlier. So he's speaking truth But he's doing so with an agenda that is to deceive. But what is helpful, I think it was helpful to God's people in Isaiah's day, and I think it's helpful to us. What is helpful Is that at the heart of the Ravshaka's communication, both the speech he gives in 36 and the letter he writes in 37, at the heart of it, he asks them two questions. That are so essential for all of us to consider. And these two questions are this. Who do you trust? And the word trust is repeated seven times. If you know anything about the Bible, you know that's significant, okay? Who do you trust? You're trusting in Egypt. On what do you trust this trust of yours? There's a place where the ESV, if you were to count up trust in this passage in the ESV, you're going to come up Because there's one place where he says in verse 4 of 36, on what do you rest this trust of yours? It literally is on what do you trust this trust of yours? What are you trusting your trust in? And so it's seven times the issue of trust, right? Where do you rest this trust of yours in Do you think mere words are strategy and power for war? It seems pretty evident that the Rabshaka and the Assyrians had heard about Isaiah's ministry and Maybe he'd even heard some of his prophecies. Maybe Hezekiah had communicated some of those prophecies to the Assyrians to say, here, this is what the Lord says about you guys. And so he says, you think mere words are strategy and power for war? In whom do you now trust that you have rebelled against me? Who do you trust? And the second question is, who's going to deliver you? Because if you go through the Ravshaka's talk and his letter, the other word that comes up in addition to trust is deliver. Who's going to deliver you? Who's going to Who's going to rescue you? Who's going to get you out of this? Those are the issues for us. When we're feeling pressured, when we're feeling overwhelmed, It it could be like we're in a social situation where we're feeling a little bit picked on because of our faith in Christ and maybe maybe being ridiculed and we're like we're tempted to just sort of say, ah, you know Just hide my faith, just sort of not talk about it. Or it could be we're in a place of temptation where something's in front of us, an obvious moral compromise. And the Rapshika's goal here is so clear what he's trying to get God's people to do. He's trying to get God's people to surrender, to give up, to give in. Just quit. And that is so often what Satan comes at us with. Oh come on, what's the point of fighting? It's gonna be hard. It's uncomfortable. There's such an easier way if you just take it. It's right there for you. That's why he's speaking in Hebrew and he's shouting so that he knows the men on the wall will hear him. You know, the court officials from Hezekiah say, uh, can you please speak to us in Aramaic? What they mean by that is that was the language of diplomacy. Aramaic was the sort of international language of that. They're like, can you please speak to us diplomat to diplomat? And he's like Guess what? I ain't here as a diplomat. I'm here to scare the tar out of those guys on the wall so that they quit. Because he knows this. He doesn't have to have King Hezekiah surrender. If the guys on the wall give up and abandon their posts and walk out and surrender. Game over. So, I mean he piles it on. What do you want to do? Eat your own dung and drink your own urine? Or do you want to sit under your own vine and eat of your own fig tree and come to a land that's got grain and wine? You know, that's pretty clear. Isn't that what Satan comes at us with? You can have your way, you can have it easy, you can have a comfortable life, you can take the shortcut, you don't have to go through all this hardship, just give up, just give in. So this Rapshika actually did the people of God a favor by narrowing in on these issues. Who do you trust? Who's going to deliver you? And does the same favor for us? Who do we trust? Who's going to deliver us? Here's four lessons we can learn about how to reply to Satanic lies from the speech and the letter of the Rhapseka. First, political speech That is designed to make God's people afraid and to act out of fear is a snare of the devil designed to entrap and enslave us. God does not want us to be afraid of what is going on in the world. God's not afraid of what's going on in the world. And if God's people fear man, fear the world, instead of trusting in God, we will do stupid and foolish things. We will compromise our Testimony. We will act in unbelief. Another thing I think we see here is this Rhapseka presents the people of God with this false dichotomy. You're trusting in Egypt. Don't trust in Egypt, trust in Assyria instead. Come on out to us. We're good. We'll be nice to you. We'll give you a farm. We'll give you we'll take care of you. Right? It's this dichotomy. You're trusting in Egypt You should trust in Assyria. And from where Judah sits, from where Judah sits, it sure seems like that's the option, right? Look at that map again. if you can, with your magnifying glass. And if you you'll see the Egyptian kingdom below, right? And then you'll see the dark green, which is really the heart of the Assyrian Empire above, and little Judah in the middle. Remember, we said weeks ago they had actually sent a treasure caravan down to Egypt to try to buy horses and chariots from them. They had laden them down and sent them through the desert. to go down there to Egypt. So they're stuck between Egypt and Assyria. And so it sure looks like you either have to trust in Egypt or you have to trust in the Assyrians by deliver by surrendering to them. There's only two great earthly powers. You have to do this or that. And so it certainly seems like it's either this or that. One or the other. But what we see here is that there's always faithfulness to God and reliance on his promises before For us, we are never forced to choose between two sinful paths. We can trust God and seek Him, and He will provide. The third thing we see is that bad theology corrupts God's word and leads God's people astray. One of the things the Rapshika says is, you think the Lord's going to deliver you? Isn't it He whose high places Hezekiah has removed and said, you have to worship here before this altar? You might be puzzling, like, what's he talking about? Yeah. The people had put up pagan-style high places on every green hill and under every green tree. To worship Yahweh. And Hezekiah was the first king. Josiah later is going to do the same thing, but Hezekiah is the first king since David Hundreds of years, to actually say no more high places dedicated to Yahweh. Not just get rid of the Asheras, not just get rid of the Baals, not just get rid of the false worship of false gods, but get rid of the false worship of the true gods God, get rid of the high places to Yahweh, and we're only supposed to worship in one place the temple, so we're only going to worship in one place the temple. The Ravchika thinks maybe that angered God. He didn't understand that Hezekiah was actually doing a good thing. But maybe he's also appealing to the sort of grassroots theology of the people, who probably had a fondness for the high places. After all, why do we do things that way? Is that what God's word says? Well this is what my parents did, and this is what my grandparents did, and this is what my great grandparents did, and this is what my great great grandparents did. We've always done it this way. We should keep doing it this way. How often do we hear that in church life, right? Why are we doing this? Is this biblical? It's always been done that way. Let's keep doing it that way And the fourth thing is that a fear of worldly punishment or a hope of worldly reward is often used to motivate God's people to sin by distrusting God. But the right thing to do is to trust in the Lord to deliver us We have two different responses to these words from the Rapshika. The initial response, it's interesting in the initial response to see the difference between the reaction of Hezekiah's court officials and even Hezekiah himself versus the reaction of Isaiah. So interesting These three court officials, they tear their clothes, they put on sackcloth, they come to Hezekiah distressed. Hezekiah himself hears it tears his clothes, puts on sackclothes. He sends them to go to Isaiah and say, this is a day of distress. This is a day of anguish. This is a day of calamity. Please pray. Maybe God will hear us. Do you notice something about Isaiah's response to that? This may shock you as odd. 37, 5, and 6 37, 5, and 6. When the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah, Isaiah said to them, Say to your master, Thus says the Lord, do not be afraid, because of the words. That you have heard, with which the young men of the king of Assyria have reviled me. Hezekiah had asked Isaiah to pray and see seek God because maybe, perhaps, right, God might answer and deliver them. Isaiah doesn't pray. He simply tells them the Word of God. Why? Because we've had chapter after chapter after chapter of prophecies from Isaiah. That have already answered the question of is Assyria going to conquer Jerusalem or not? And the answer has clearly been no, he's not going to conquer Deconquerures. In fact, we have this real clue that sort of ties this whole part of Isaiah together. If you look at this um Beginning of chapter 36, when the Rapshika comes, where does he stand? The Rapshika 36 verse 2. 36 verse 2, the Rapshika stands. By the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the washer's field. If that sounds vaguely familiar, keep your finger in 36 and come back with me. to Isaiah chapter 7, which is really the beginning of the main body of Isaiah after the first six chapters of introduction. And go to chapter 7, verse 3. And the Lord said to Isaiah, Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Sheer Joshub, your son. at the end of the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the washer's field. You see that? It's exactly the same spot. That was 35 years earlier. So 35 years earlier, right? What was 35 years ago? 1989, right? So some of you were like, that seems like yesterday, and some of you were like, wow, that's Ages ago. Um the same spot where Isaiah had really kind of begun his ministry thirty-five years ago is where the Ravshaka is now standing. And throughout those thirty-five years, God had said, Jerusalem's not going to be conquered. It wasn't conquered by the Syrians. It won't be conquered by the Assyrians. They're going to conquer all this and this and this and this and this. They're going to get this far, but they're not going to get in. They won't get in. So Isaiah doesn't need to pray because he already has the Word of God and the promise of God. He doesn't have to ask if, because God has already said that. We don't need to question God where God has already spoken. We don't. God's already spoken. But there's an interesting difference in the response. So this first time, the response is: he's going to hear a rumor, and he's going to return to his own land, and there he's going to meet his demise. And that is what happens. But something gets added when the letter from the Rapshika comes in 37, and the letter is saying, don't let the Lord deceive you. The letter to Hezekiah has saying, don't let the Lord deceive you, saying it's not him. God's like, oh no. You cross the line. And so the angel comes and destroys 185,000. He he heard the rumor. The rumor was that the king of the Cushites was coming out to make battle against him, and he was gonna probably maybe leave, but God makes sure that he gets out of there and make sure he gets out of there in a way that he'll never forget by 185,000 of his soldiers dying in a single night. So that was in response to Isaiah to Hezekiah's petition in chapter 37, which is a just a brilliant petition. What is Hezekiah focused on in his petition? He's focused on the glory of God. among the nations. He says, act in such a way, Lord, would you act in such a way that all the nations of the earth would know that you are God? You see, if all happen that happens is Sennacherib hears a rumor and goes back home and gets assassinated by his sons, well that kind of thing happens in politics all the time. But Isaiah asks Hezekiah asks, please act in such a way that all the nations will know, and that's the 185,000 dead in a single night. So here's the conclusion for us. We ask ourselves these questions: who are we trusting and who will deliver you? We don't need to be afraid of what the world threatens. We should never be led astray into trusting what the world says we should trust. The Lord must be our only trust. He will be our deliverer. His deliverance of his people from the Assyrians proves it. But an even greater deliverance, 700 years later, proves it even more. This became so well known in the history of the world that That Cushite army that was going to come fight, if you can see Syrians, we have reference earlier in Isaiah that they actually end up coming to Jerusalem and worshiping God because they're amazed that God could do this. thing. This is amazing, but there's something more amazing that happens 700 years later. And that is outside those same city walls In the midst of shouts of jeering and mocking, much like the mocking of the Ravshika, the Son of God fought a greater battle and won a greater deliverance for you and For me. Who do we trust? Who's going to deliver us? The Lord Jesus Christ took on, not the Assyrian army, he took on all of our sin. He took on the power of death. He took on hell itself. And he won the victory. He was crushed. He was buried and he rose again. And he is alive forevermore. That victory. Tells us nothing we face can separate us from the love of God because Jesus has already dealt with it. What would separate you from the love of God? Would your sin? Jesus paid for it. With the world, Jesus overcame it. With Satan? Jesus defeated him. Death? Jesus overthrew that too. There's now because of Christ nothing that can separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord And so we can trust Him to deliver us in any little thing we face. And no matter how big it feels to us, to God, it's just a little thing we face. In a temporary way. Christ has already defeated it. God has already promised us that He's working it together for our good. We need to try it. Trust him. Let's pray. Father, there's no one like you in heaven or on earth. You alone are God among all the nations. All the so-called gods of men are just man-made idols, they perish. Power, pleasure, fame, status, influence, social media followers. It's all just dust. It's all worthless idols. You alone are God. You alone have overcome sin and death. You alone have conquered every true enemy of our And you alone are working out all things for our good and for your glory. So Father, help us to trust you. Help us to trust you for deliverance in every moment of our lives and the deliverance of our lives for all eternity. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.