Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Demel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you as we conclude the Gospel of Matthew today at the end of our 13th week together. Next week, Lord willing, we'll begin the Gospel of Mark. Today, we're looking at Matthew 28, verses 11 to 20, and we're asking the question, did the disciples really steal the body of Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please speak truth to us through your word, and please help us to know the truth and to walk in the truth. For your glory we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, Matthew 28, 11-20. While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place. And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers and said Tell people his disciples came by night and stole the body away while we were asleep. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. So they took the money and did as they were directed, and this story has been spread among the Jews to this day. Now, the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them, and when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Matthew wrote his gospel for a Jewish audience. When he wrote his gospel, Jewish people knew three things about the supposed resurrection of Jesus. First, they knew that Jesus' closest followers claimed he had risen from the dead and ascended to heaven. Second, they knew that Jesus' body was not in the tomb and had never been found And then third, the story circulating among the Jewish people was that the disciples had come in the night and stolen the body. So what about it? Could the disciples have come in the night and stolen the body? Well, consider these questions. First of all, how would a scared and untrained group of fishermen and a tax collector Come in and steal a body from a sealed tomb while a guard of professional soldiers slept? This required moving the large stone, removing the body, all in total silence in the middle of the night? How? Second, why would nothing be done to punish these soldiers if indeed they slept while the body was stolen? Wouldn't that very fact that they went unpunished prove that their story wasn't true? Falling asleep on guard duty in the ancient Roman times led to a death sentence. Third, why would the authorities be unable to discover what the disciples had done with the body? After all, the Jewish authorities and the Roman government both had good reason to want to be able to prove that Jesus was still dead. And fourth, if the disciples had stolen the body, would they have kept up the lie of the resurrection when Stephen was stoned to death and James was killed by Herod? Don't you think they would have given up the conspiracy once it started costing them their lives? No, the most likely explanation is that the disciples had courage in the face of death. Because they had confidence in the resurrection. Their confidence was grounded in the fact that they had seen Jesus after he had risen from the dead and had later seen him ascend into the clouds. Nothing else adequately accounts for the disciples' courage and consistency in the face of death Before he left them, Jesus charged his disciples to go and make disciples. Once the Holy Spirit came at Pentecost, that's exactly what they did. Within a generation of the resurrection of Jesus, The gospel had been taken by the disciples from India to Spain and from Ethiopia to Rome. Here's a question for us. Do we have their same confidence and courage? Are we taking the gospel to our world today? Let's go to Psalm 66, to the choir master, a song, a psalm. Shout for joy to God all the earth. There's a great, great commission verse right there. Sing the glory of his name. Give to him glorious praise. Say to God, how awesome are your deeds. So great is your power that your enemies come cringing to you. All the earth worships you and sings your praise. They sing praises to your name. Come and see what God has done. He is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man. He turned the sea into dry land, they passed through the river on foot. There did we rejoice in him who rules by his might forever, whose eyes keep watch on the nations, let not the rebellious exalt themselves Bless our God, O peoples. Let the sound of his praise be heard, who has kept our soul among the living, and has not let our feet slip, for you, O God, have tested us You have tried us as silver is tried. You brought us into the net. You laid a crushing burden on our backs. You let men ride over our heads. We went through fire and through water, yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance. I will come into your house with burnt offerings. I will perform my vows to you, that which my lips uttered, and my mouth promised when I was in trouble. I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals. with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams, I will make an offering of bulls and goats. Come in here, all you who fear God, and I will tell you what he has done for my soul I cried to him with my mouth, and high praise was on my tongue. If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not have listened But truly God has listened, he has attended to the voice of my prayer. Blessed be God, because he has not rejected my prayer or removed his steadfast love from me One way to look at Psalm 66, by the way, is the praise that Jesus is giving to his Father for answering his prayer to be delivered from death. That's what Hebrews 13 tells us. Or not Hebrews 13, but the book of Hebrews tells us that Jesus, during the days of his flesh, he cried to the Lord with deep anguish. And loud tears, thinking of the Garden of Gethsemane, to the one who was able to save him from death, and he was heard. So here we have this Jesus The burnt offering he offered was himself. The sacrifice he offered was himself, ultimately. But God heard him Even though he was crushed unto death, God heard him. And then for us we can pray this in the sense that God has done awesome things in the resurrection of Jesus, and he's given us a gospel to take to the nations, so that everyone should come and worship him. for the awesome deeds he did in the death and resurrection of Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are awesome in your power and might, in your saving acts, your mighty acts of redemption for your people. Father, give us the courage to speak the good news to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation as we have the ability to support missionaries who are going in the field to pray for those who are in the field to go ourselves and share the gospel wherever you give us that opportunity. May we be driven. As the disciples were driven, that the Great Commission might be our commission, and that Psalm 66 might be the prayer that we pray. to call all of the earth to worship you for your greatness and how you have delivered your people from Satan and sin and death and hell forever. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me as we've wrapped up Matthew. Hope you can join me next week as we turn to the Gospel of Mark. Have a blessed day in the Lord.