Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church We're on our fourth day of our 28th week, beginning now Luke 19. We're getting kind of closer to the end of Luke. We've got about three and a half more weeks, I think, left in the Gospel of Luke. And we're looking today at the first half of Luke 19, and we're asking this question might sound strange at first, but did Zacchaeus buy his salvation? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please speak to us through your word. Please help us to see you and your Son, our Savior. more clearly with the eyes of faith that we might follow and trust and glorify you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 19, 1-27. He entered Jericho and was passing through, and behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich, and he was seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not, because he was small in stature. So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place He looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at your house to-day. So he hurried and came down, and received him joyfully And when they saw it, they all grumbled, He has gone to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord The half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house Since he also is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost As they heard these things, he proceeded to tell them a parable, because he was near to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately. He said, therefore, a nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return. Calling in ten of his servants, he gave them ten minnows, and said to them, Engage in business until I come. But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him saying, We do not want this man to reign over us. When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business. The first came before him, saying, Lord, your minna has made ten minnas more. And he said to him, Well done, good servant, because you have been faithful, and in very little you shall have authority over ten cities. And the second one came and said, Lord, your minna has made five minnas. And he said to him, Oh, and you are to be over five cities. Then another came, saying, Lord, here is your minna, which I kept laid away in a handkerchief, for I was afraid of you, because you are a severe man. You take what you did not deposit, and reap what you did not sow He said to him, I will condemn you with your own words, you wicked servant. You knew that I was a severe man. Taking what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow? Why then did you not put my money in the bank? And at my coming I might have collected it with interest And he said to those who stood by, Take the minna from him, and give it to the one who has the ten minnas. And they said to him, Lord, he has ten minnas. I tell you that every one who has more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. But as for these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slaughter them before me. Whew. Well, we begin with the story of Zacchaeus. Almost everyone knows the story of Zacchaeus. He was a wee little man, and a wee little man was he. He was a notoriously corrupt tax collector who wanted desperately to see Jesus, but because he was vertically challenged, he had to climb a tree to get a glimpse of Jesus. But it was not Zacchaeus seeing Jesus that was important, but rather Jesus seeing Zacchaeus. When Jesus saw the short tax collector extortionist in the tree, he asked him to come down. And I invited himself to his house. Immediately the religious people began gossiping about how Jesus was going to be the guest of a notorious sinner. Zacchaeus then astounded the condemning crowd by announcing his incredible new refund program, a fourfold refund of any money he had extorted from anyone, on top of giving half of his goods to the poor. The challenging part of this passage comes next. In response to what Zacchaeus says, Jesus proclaims, today salvation has come to this house. since he also is the son of Abraham, for the Son of Man came to seek and to save what was lost. It's verses 9 and 10. So this is what leads to our focus question. Did Zacchaeus buy his way into heaven? Did he earn salvation by his generosity and his good works? Well, no, of course not. But really the answer is not quite that simple, is it? It it was necessary for Zacchaeus to make this restitution, uh but It was because he needed to show the fruit of repentance by returning his ill-gotten gains. He did not buy salvation with his generosity. But it was the necessary fruit of a transformed heart. Jesus selected Zacchaeus for salvation when he called him by name and asked him to come down. His salvation was entirely by grace. at the initiative of Jesus, not of works. But his salvation did indeed work in his heart, and he bore the fruit of real repentance and life change. Sometimes we can confuse the root and the fruit in salvation. Our salvation is rooted and grounded in God's free grace. We are saved by grace alone When we trust in Jesus Christ for our salvation. But a changed heart issues forth a changed life. And a changed life bears fruit that is evidence of that change. So, do you know Jesus? Has He changed your heart? Does your life reflect the fruit? Of a changed heart. That's trusting in Jesus and not in yourself. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 135. Praise the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Give praise, O servants of the Lord, who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God. Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good. Sing to his name, for it is pleasant. For the Lord has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel, as his own possession. For I know that the Lord is great, and that our Lord is above all gods. Whatever the Lord pleases, He does, in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all deeps, He it is Who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth, who makes lightnings for the rain, and brings forth the wind from his storehouses. He it was Who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and of beast, who in your midst, O Egypt, sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants. who struck down many nations and killed mighty kings, Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan and gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to his people Israel. Your name, O Lord, endures forever. Your renown, O Lord, throughout all generations, for the Lord will vindicate his people. and have compassion on his servants. The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths but do not speak, they have eyes, but do not see, they have ears but do not hear, nor is there any breath in their mouths. Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them. O House of Israel, bless the Lord. O house of Aaron, bless the Lord. O house of Levi, bless the Lord. You who fear the Lord, bless the Lord. Blessed be the Lord from Zion, he who dwells in Jerusalem, praise the Lord. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, you give us in Psalm 135 a picture of what it looks like to have a really changed heart. And that is a changed heart overflows in worship to you. We glorify you. We praise you. We see how good you are. We see how pleasant you are. We see how wonderful you are, and we just want to talk about it and sing about it and celebrate it. But also We turn our backs on idols, on the idols of this world, because because we can see that although they have eyes, they can't see, and although they have mouths, they can't speak. We can see, in other words, that all the precious baubles of the world are lifeless. They don't have life, they can't give life, and so we turn our backs on them. Not because we think that by turning our backs on them we will earn salvation. But because we've been so blessed by you, and our hearts overflow with thanksgiving and praise for you, and now we see the idols of the world for what they are. Empty. False. Lifeless. So turn our hearts away from this world and turn our hearts ever new to you in worship and thanksgiving. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was a blessing to you. Hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.