Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's the fourth day of our ninth week. We are in Matthew 19 now, looking at verses 1 to 15 and asking, did Jesus say anything about gender, sexuality, and marriage? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. That is so true and helpful. Thank you for your Son, our wonderful Savior. Thank you for the truth of your word that helps us to see life clearly. Speak to us now through your word, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Matthew 19, 1-15. Now when Jesus had finished these sayings, he went away from Galilee and entered the region of Judea beyond the Jordan, and a large crowds followed him, and he healed them there. And Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? He answered, Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? And said, Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and hold fast to his wife and the two shall become one flesh, so they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate They said to him, Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send her away? He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart. Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so, and I say to you, whoever divorces his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another, commits adultery. The disciples said to him, If such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. But he said to them, Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given For there are eunuchs who have been made so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the Then children were brought to him, that he might lay his hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked the people, but Jesus said, Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them. for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. And he laid his hands on them and went away. You may have heard the claim that Jesus never said anything about LGBTQ issues. He never spoke about same-sex marriage or gender issues, homosexuality, transgenderism. People who say this are are are implying that the many other times that the Bible speaks explicitly about these issues don't really count because they weren't spoken by Jesus. You know, Moses and Paul might have been bigoted homophobes, but Jesus was more open-minded and loving, right? Well, today's passage challenges that assertion. Here we have Jesus speaking very clearly about gender and marriage. in such strong terms that he makes the Pharisees look like liberals and offends his disciples who believed marriage was not worth it if you couldn't get a quick divorce when you wanted to get out of it. Here's what Jesus clearly asserts first, that God created people, male and female, from the beginning. Second, that God created marriage to be between a man and a woman and to be a lifelong commitment. And third, that God created marriage to be the one flesh joining of male and female as husband and wife, with the joining together being God's creation. So if we take the words of Jesus seriously here, then we cannot redefine marriage and gender without tearing apart the very fabric of humanity as God has created us. Male and female are not labels assigned by society, and we are not free to change them at will. God created the genders. They are fixed by him. Male and female were meant to complement each other in the bond of marriage, and they come and and together they become one flesh. Only male and female are capable of this kind of union. Because God has created the essence of maleness and femaleness to be able to form this union, both sexually and genderly. God created genders and he defines them. God created marriage and he defines it. Humanity is not free to alter what God has created. These are not my ideas, or the ideas of the right wing of the Republican Party, or the ideas of some crazy-eyed evangelical preacher. These are the teachings of Jesus himself, very clearly presented here in Matthew 19. People have never fully liked what God created in marriage. In Jesus' day, a man could divorce his wife for any reason whatsoever. Men liked it that way. But such a quick divorce culture hurt women Jesus wanted to protect women from being thrown away easily and wanted to protect the strong commitment of marriage because he knew what is best for people. It is always better for people to live according to God's creation design than in opposition to how God made us. God made us, He loves us, He knows how we're supposed to live, and He tells us these things for our good. We ignore them to our hurt. So let's commit to living according to God's design and lovingly seeking to help others see the beauty of his loving genius too. Well, after a gospel passage on marriage, we have a psalm on marriage. This is a beautiful song celebrating the marriage of the king to his beautiful bride To the choir master, according to Lilies, a mascule of the sons of Korah, a love song. Psalm 45. My heart overflows with a pleasing theme. I address my verses to the king. My tongue is like the pen of a ready scribe. You are the most handsome of the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore, God has blessed you forever. Gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one. In your splendor and majesty, in your majesty, ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness. Let your right hand teach you awesome deeds. Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies. The peoples fall under you. Your throne, O God, is for ever and ever. The sceptre of your kingdom is a sceptre of uprightness. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions Your robes are all fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia. From ivory palaces, stringed instruments make you glad. Daughters of kings are among your ladies of honor At your right hand stands the queen in gold of Ophir. Hear, O daughter, and consider, and incline your ear. Forget your people in your father's house, and the king will desire your beauty. Since he is your Lord, bow to him. The people of Tyre will seek your favor with gifts, the richest of the people All glorious is the princess in her chamber, with robes interwoven with gold, in many colored robes she is led to the king. With her virgin companions following behind her with joy and gladness, they are led along as they enter the palace of the king. In place of your fathers shall be your sons, and you will make them princes in all the earth. I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations. Therefore nations will praise you for ever and ever. This is a picture of Jesus, the glorious King, and his bride, the church, which is ultimately what marriage and gender point us to. Christ, the strong and handsome Redeemer, King, Warrior, Provider, Protector. The Church, the Bride, the one who is wooed, the one who is drawn, the one who responds. to her husband with love and devotion. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for giving us such a bridegroom in the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you for this beautiful fulfillment of what marriage is a picture of, that Jesus, the glorious King Beautiful beyond description, the fairest of ten thousand. He comes. He comes to us. He comes to take us for himself. He comes And we give our hearts to him and him alone. Help us not to love the world. Help us not to Love our past lives. Help us to love Jesus and to surrender ourselves entirely into his hands. Father, thank you for all that you do Thank you for all that you've done. Thank you for the gift of being made male and female in your image. Thank you for the gift of marriage as a picture of Christ's love for the church. Thank you for the reality of that picture fulfilled in Jesus our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again for another day of walking in the gospels with Jesus. Tomorrow we're going to wrap out this ninth week. Hope you can be there then. Have a blessed day in the Lord. Um trees.