Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to week 34 and to John chapter 8. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you so much for your Son, our Savior, our righteousness, our peace. Our eternal life. Thank you for your Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, please speak to us through your word today, that we might know Christ better and love him better and follow him better. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen All right, so John 8, 1 to 30 is on tap, and we're asking this question: what did Jesus mean by dying in your sins? Listen for that in today's passage in verses. 23 and 24. Hear the word of God. They went each to his own house, but Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. Early in the morning he came again to the temple. All the people came to him, and he sat down and taught them. The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and placing her in the midst, they said to him, Teach her, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. Now in the law Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say? This they said to test him, that they might have some charge to bring against him Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground, and as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her And once more he bent down and wrote on the ground. But when they heard it, they went away one by one, beginning with the older ones, and Jesus was left alone with the woman standing before him. Jesus stood up and said to her, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you? She said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn you. Go, and from now on sin no more. Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life So the Pharisees said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself. Your testimony is not true. Jesus answered, Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true. For I know where I came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I am going. You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one, yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true For it is not I alone who judge, but I and the Father who sent me. In your law it is written that the testimony of two people is true I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about They said to him, therefore, Where is your father? Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. These words he spoke in the treasury as he taught in the temple, but no one arrested him because his hour had not yet come. So he said to them again, I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sins. Where I am going, you cannot come. So the Jews said, Will he kill himself? Since he says, where I am going you cannot come? He said to them, You are from below. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. I told you that you would die in your sins. For unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. So they said to him, Who are you? Jesus said to them, Just what I have been telling you from the beginning. I have much to say to you, and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world what I have heard from him. They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father. So Jesus said to them, When you have listed up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He, and that I do nothing of my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me. And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. And as he was saying these things, many believed in him. What do you think is the worst news you could hear from someone? Could it be a diagnosis of advanced cancer That appears to be terminal. We have several people in our church community, members of our church who are dealing with very serious cancer diagnoses. But there are worse things you could hear. Could it be some dreadful news about your children? Well Very often for those of us who are parents, news that's bad about our children is harder for us than news that's bad about us. But there's something worse than that. Because while some advanced cancer that appears terminal or some dreadful news about your children They're terrible. And I I'm not I'm not wanting to make light of that. Those are very serious things. But there is something worse. And it's what Jesus says to the Pharisees twice in this passage. He says it in verse 21. And then he says it again in verse 24. You will die in your sins. You will die in your sins What does that mean? We know that everyone dies. The famous saying that you've probably heard before is that there's only two sure things in life, death and taxes And what I say to that, you probably heard me say it before, many people have managed to avoid paying taxes. So that means there's only one certain thing in life, and that is that you're going to die And the real issue is, will you die in your sins or will you die in the Lord? That is the most important question. And so the worst news that you could possibly hear Is that you're going to die in your sins. Why? Because Hebrews 9. 27 tells us it is appointed for man to die once, and then after that comes the judgment. And so if you die in your sins, like Jesus warned the Pharisees that they were going to die in their sins, you then have to face judgment in your sins. And that judgment is an eternal judgment. And all of your sins, all of your faults, all of your wrongs, all of your shortcomings, all of your law breaking of God's law of love They are all against you because you're in them, you see. We all sin and we all die. We all sin by not loving God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. We all sin by not loving our neighbor as ourselves. We all sin by lying to ourselves and others. We all sin by coveting that which God has not given us. We all sin by envying and hating other people who are made in God's image, and we blaspheme God when we slander and hate and envy other people who are just as much value as we do, we have all sinned. And without Christ, we are in our sins. And if we die in our sins, we'll be held accountable for our sins by the just judge of the universe. In our culture, nothing is more unpopular, nothing is more unacceptable than to say you must believe in Jesus in order to go to heaven They say, what? You think only Christians are going to go to heaven? What I said was, you must believe in Jesus in order to go to heaven. Well, that's narrow-minded, that's judgmental, that's harsh, that's arrogant, that's intolerant. But you're missing the point. You're missing what Jesus taught here and what Christians believe. Believing in Jesus doesn't make you a morally superior human being. It's not that Christians are better than everybody else, and so Christians get to go to heaven. and everybody else is worse, and so they go to hell. That is not what the Bible teaches. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. We All, including me, fail to love God, fail to love our neighbor, don't speak the truth, don't love others as we should. We're guilty. We're all guilty And all of us deserve to be condemned for the countless violations of God's law that we have knowingly committed again and again. The real question is, is there any hope that somehow we could die and not die in our sins? Because when Jesus says, you will die in your sins, he says in verse 24, unless you believe that I am He. you will die in your sins. So there is an out. There's an escape. There's a way to die not in your sins. And that is by believing That Jesus is the Son of God sent into the world to save sinners. Why does that get you off the hook? Because Jesus' life is a life of perfect obedience. He's the one human being who's lived in history who's never sinned. He loved God, his father, with all of his heart, mind, soul, and strength. He loved his neighbor as himself. He was moved with compassion. He spoke the truth. Everything he did was right. And then he went to the cross willingly. And on the cross, he took the punishment we deserve. He took the condemnation we deserve. He'll say later in John chapter 10, No one takes my life from me, I lay it down freely of my own accord. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He laid down his life So that we could be forgiven, so that He could take on Himself our sin, and He could give to us in its place His perfect record of righteousness that we receive by faith alone and not by works. The Pharisees were going to die in their sins, not because they were worse people than other people, but because they had no way of getting rid of those sins. And they had no way of getting rid of those sins because they would not believe in Jesus. They had ample evidence. Jesus had done miracles They had sufficient reason. Jesus had told them to believe in him, but they were blind to it. They were hardened to it. They were in their unbelief. They were rejecting Jesus. And the same is true of unbelievers today. Jesus has proven who He is. He is the Son of God, He is the Savior of sinners. He died on the cross, He rose again from the dead. He was seen by eyewitnesses. He's been proclaimed throughout the world for two thousand years. The evidence is clear. The case is compelling. To come to Jesus. But the bad news is that without Jesus you will die in your sins because only Jesus can remove them. You have to find somebody else who would be qualified to remove them. All they have to do is live a perfect, sinless life, and then be willing to take your place and die There's only been one person who's ever done that. And he's the Son of God, so his death is of infinite worth to count for all of those who trust in him. Sins. You do not need to be condemned in the judgment. Jesus says that if you come to Him and believe in Him, He will give you eternal life. He will raise you up on the the last day. That's what we heard in John 6. Believe in him. Come to him. Trust in him today. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, you've given your Son, who's given his life, that we might be forgiven and have life in him. I pray that we would all trust in Jesus and not in ourselves and come to Him for the salvation we need. I pray this in Jesus' name and for His glory in our lives. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today on Walking with Jesus and the Gospels. If you have any questions about any of these devotionals, you want to reach out with any question at all, you can email me. My email address is pastor at foresthillpca. org. That's pastor at foresthillpca. org. I'd be happy to answer your questions. Be happy to help you in any way that I can. So please reach out. Have a blessed day in the Lord.