Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It's our second day of our 24th week. We are in the second half of Luke 8, looking at verses 26 to 56, and we're asking, why does God repeatedly tell us not to fear? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for your word that you've given to us as a gift. Thank you for your son. Thank you for the the way in which the Word of God in the Scriptures points us to your Son, who is the Word of God incarnate and our Savior. Teach us today, by your Holy Spirit, draw our hearts closer to Jesus. We pray this in his name. Amen. Luke 8, 26-56. Then they sailed to the country of the Garosenes, which is opposite Galilee. When Jesus had stepped out on land, there met him a man from the city who had demons. For a long time he had worn no clothes, and he had not lived in a house but among the tombs. When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him, and said with a loud voice, What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you, do not torment me. for he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For many a time it had seized him. He was kept under guard and bound with chains and shackles, but he would break the bonds and be driven by the demon into the desert. Jesus then asked him, What is your name? And he said, Legion, for the demons, many demons, had entered him. And they begged him not to command them to depart into the abyss. Now a large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside, and they begged him to let him enter these. So he gave them permission. Then the demons came out of the man and entered the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and drowned. When the herdsmen saw what had happened, they fled and told it in the city and the country. Then people went out to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus and found the man from whom the demons had gone sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid. And those who had seen it told them how the demon-possessed man had been healed. Then all the people of the surrounding country of the garrisons asked him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear. So he got into the boat and returned The man from whom the demons had gone begged that he might be with him. But Jesus sent him away, saying, Return to your home and declare how much God has done for you And he went away, proclaiming throughout the whole city, how much Jesus had done for him. Now, when Jesus returned, the crowd welcomed him for they were all waiting for him. And there came a man named Jairus, who was a ruler of the synagogue, and falling at Jesus' feet he implored him to come to his house. For he had an only daughter about twelve years of age, and she was dying. As Jesus went, the people pressed about him And there was a woman who had a discharge of blood for twelve years, and though she had spent all her living on physicians, she could not be healed by anyone. She came up behind him and touched the fringe of his garment, and immediately her discharge of blood ceased. And Jesus said, Who is it that touched me? When all denied it, Peter said, Master, the crowds surround you and are pressing in on you. But Jesus said, Someone touched me, for I perceive that power has gone out from me. And when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him, declared, in the presence of all the people, why she had touched him, and how she had been immediately healed. And he said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace. While he was still speaking, someone from the ruler's house came and said, Your daughter is dead. Do not trouble the teacher any more. But Jesus, on hearing this, answered him, Do not fear, only believe, and she will be well. And when he came to the house he allowed no one to enter with him except Peter and John and James, and the father and mother of the child. and all were weeping and mourning her. But he said, Do not weep, for she is not dead, but sleeping. And they laughed at him, knowing that she was dead But taking her by the hand he called, saying, Child, arise. And her spirit returned, and she got up at once, and he directed that something should be given her to eat And her parents were amazed, but he charged them to tell no one what had happened. We see it in verse 50. Upon the news that the daughter was dead, Jesus tells the man, Jairus, do not fear, only believe A popular Christian teaching claims that the Bible tells us to fear not 365 times, one for every day of the year That's not quite accurate. The Bible uses the phrase fear not or do not fear about 80 times, depending on which translation you use. It uses other similar phrases, don't be afraid, don't be anxious, don't worry, dozens of additional times too. So while it may not all add up to 365, the Bible certainly tells us not to fear. In fact, Fear not is the most common command given in the Bible by far. So why does God tell us not to fear so often? Well Jesus' words to Jairus help us understand the fuller meaning of fear not. Jesus tells Jairus, do not fear. only believe. The opposite of fear is faith. God doesn't just desire to see an absence of fear in our lives, but the presence of a vital and life-changing faith The command, fear not, is usually given at two different times, in response to the appearance of an angel or the Lord to one of his people, and in the face of a great difficulty. or problems. When an angel or the Lord appears to someone, the most common response from the person is trembling. And the most common word spoken by the angel or the Lord is fear not. God wants his people to have a holy fear, a deep and abiding reverence, but not a paralyzing terror or a fearful anxiety about him. He wants us to know that we are loved. While we tremble before him, we do not need to be afraid of him. Yet life is filled with challenges and difficulties, isn't it? Life is hard. The fall has broken God's good creation in many ways. Cancer Heart attacks, violent crime, terrorism, political unrest, depression, anxiety, sin, all of these paralyze us with fear. In these times God speaks fear not. Because he wants to reorient our hearts toward him. He wants us to know that nothing in this world can stand against those who belong to the Lord. We have no reason to fear. In response to the paralyzing anxiety and distress that can be caused in our minds and souls by both God Himself and by the world around us, we need to trust the Lord. We need to know and believe that God is for us. When we are terrified by the wrath of God, we need to remember that because of Jesus Christ, God is indeed for us. When circumstances overwhelm or challenge, terrify us, we need to remember that it is Almighty God who is indeed for us. God demonstrated his love and power in so many ways in today's passage, casting out a legion of demons, freeing a man from lifelong torment. Healing a long-term chronic disease, raising a little girl from death to life. The same Jesus who did these things sits at God's right hand praying for you forever. The same power that raised Jesus from the dead now lives in you, if you believe in him and belong to him. Let's go to Psalm 117. We have the shortest psalm in the Bible today, just two verses. Praise the Lord all nations, extol him all peoples. 4. Great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. Praise the Lord. This past Sunday was I was preaching on Psalm 26. I pointed out that steadfast love and faithfulness are this duo that describe the character of God. toward his people. And it's the reason why we should praise him and it's the reason why we should have faith in him and not be afraid. His steadfast love, his chesed, his covenant loyal, faithful, unfailing. tender, merciful, just, holy, love. And his faithfulness, his unfailingness, his unchangeableness, his commitment to keep every promise and to be who he is without failing. The steadfast love and faithfulness of the Lord give us every reason to praise Him, to thank Him, and to not be afraid, but to trust Him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much that in Jesus Christ, grace and truth, steadfast love and faithfulness have been given to us. He is the full revelation of your khasid and of your faithfulness, of your steadfast love, of your unfailingness. Every promise is yes in Christ. And so we do not need to be afraid. You are for us, and you are Almighty God who never changes and who never fails. Help us to live by faith in who you are, in the face of whatever you bring into our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me today, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today was a blessing to you, and I hope you'll be able to join me again tomorrow as we head into Luke chapter 9. Have a blessed day in the Lord.