Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior veteran, Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to week 41, day one, our next to last. devotional in the Gospels and we are in John 21 verses 15 to 19. When we finish up the Gospel of John, I'm going to be releasing Some Psalms of Thanksgiving. These will be devotionals that I've done before on the Psalms, but I'm going to be selecting those Psalms of Thanksgiving that will take us through Thanksgiving Week. And then the Monday after Thanksgiving, we're going to start something for Advent. So I hope you can stay with us for that. I hope it's a blessing to you, and I hope today's devotional will be a blessing to you too. We're in John 21, verses 15 to 19. Today we're asking the question, is God Truly sovereign over our sin? Or does God reign even over our sin? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your love for us. Thank you for your sovereignty over every detail of our lives. Teach us now from your word as we look to you. In Jesus' name, amen. Alright, John 15, verses or sorry, John 21, verses 15 to 19. When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon, Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my sheep, or feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved, because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you, and carry you where you do not want to go. This he said, to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God, and after saying this he said to him, Follow Why did Jesus choose to restore Peter the way he did? And how does the way Jesus handled Peter's great sin reveal to us How God rules over the sins of his people. Now many people are very uncomfortable with the idea that that God's sovereign rule over all things even extends over our own sin. They think that somehow that makes God the author of sin, or somehow guilty of wanting us to sin. That's not true. But in a mistaken effort to try to safeguard God's integrity, they end up limiting their belief in his sovereignty. But think about it this way. If God's absolute governing of all things does not extend to our sin, then how can we have confidence that He is in control of anything? Once you start excluding the whole realm of human sin from God's rule, how do you handle the fact that almost everything that happens in the world is in some way touched, affected, or shaped? by sin. The Bible gives us some clear pictures to show us how God rules over human sin without being the author of sin. First Joseph in Genesis, Joseph tells his brothers that even though their intentions were evil when they sold him into slavery, God had ordained their actions for the good of his people, for the saving of God. of many lives. That's in Genesis 50, verse 20. Secondly, the Emperor Cyrus. He did much sinful harm in the world, in his rise to power and the expansion of his empire. But God foretold his rise and the spread of his power as foreordained by God for the good of his people. Look at Isaiah 44 and 45 for this. And third, Jesus' crucifixion was actually the worst act of evil in the history of the world, the worst miscarriage of justice, the only truly innocent man put to death for no cause whatsoever. He had never done anything wrong. deserving death in his life. And yet it was ordained by God for the salvation of his people. Peter makes this clear in Acts 2. 23. And now here in the story of Peter's own sin, we have one of the most detailed accounts of how God rules over the sin of his people. Consider this. Jesus foretold Peter's denials. How many times and when? Before the rooster crows, he'll deny me three times. Peter denied vehemently that he would deny Jesus, but Jesus remained clear in his foreknowledge of Peter's denials. Jesus even foretold Peter's restoration. But even though Jesus foreknew Peter's denials and indicated that Satan's activity was behind it, he never denied that it would be Peter's active decision to actually deny Jesus. And while Jesus orchestrated all the details of Peter's restoration The lack of success fishing, the miraculous catch at the Word of Jesus, the three questions about Peter's love for Jesus and the three commands. for Peter to shepherd and feed the flock of Jesus. It was all done according to God's design. Now for me, as I've studied the Bible's teaching about God's sovereignty over human sin, it's actually brought me great comfort. I may be shocked by my own sin, but God never is. God foreknew all my sin before I ever committed any of it. In fact, Jesus went to the cross and paid for all of my sin with his precious blood before I was even born or had committed any of it. My sins, therefore, cannot derail God's good purpose for my salvation. I may face painful consequences for my sin. But God not only foreknew my sin, but he also foreknew the painful consequences and has foreordained my restoration. Now none of this makes me complacent about my sin or content with my sin. The loving knowledge and the sovereign rule of God over my sin, it actually makes me thankful and humble. It fills me with love. For my Savior, for my Lord, to know that He knows all of this about me perfectly and yet He loves me anyway, yet Jesus went to the cross for me anyway. That fills me with such a love for the Lord and such a desire to honor him in my life And then when I see Peter being so lovingly and carefully restored after such great failure, I am humbled by the strength and the depth of God's love, and I hope you are too. I hope you know that no matter how badly you've sinned, it doesn't shock God, it doesn't derail his plan for your life. In fact, it is part of his plan for your life. That doesn't mean he's happy with your sin. It doesn't mean he caused your sin, none of that. But it means that your sin is not out of line with what God has foreordained for your life and the way that He is making you. More like Jesus and deepening your love for him. So rest in him. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you that in him we have the sovereign Lord, King of Kings, Lord of Lords, Lord of our hearts, Lord of our lives, and that his love is perfect. His love is as perfect and complete as his sovereignty. Help us to live by faith. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again. Tomorrow, Lord Lilling, we'll wrap up the Gospel of John and our walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope you can join us for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.