Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are here on this Uh first day of our 25th week together in the Gospels, and we're looking at Luke chapter 10, verses 1 to 20. This is the sending out of the 72. It's the largest missions sent out by Jesus during his earthly ministry. And so we're going to be asking the question, how should we engage in missions? How should we engage in missions? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for this time that we have together to be in your word. Please bless us by your Holy Spirit. Help us to understand your word and apply it to our lives in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke ten one to twenty. After this the Lord appointed seventy two others, and sent them on ahead of him two by two into every town and place where he himself was about to go. And he said to them, The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. Go your way. Behold, I am sending you out as lambs in the midst of wolves. Carry no money bag, no knapsack, no sandals, and greet no one on the road. Whatever house you enter, first say, Peace be to this house. And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest on him. But if not, it will return to you. and remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his wages. Do not go from house to house. Whenever you enter a town and they receive you, eat what is set before you Heal the sick, and say to them, The kingdom of God has come near you. But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, Go into its streets and say, Even the dust of your town that clings to our feet we wipe off against you, nevertheless know this, that the kingdom of God has come near. I tell you it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town. Woe to you, Khorazan! Woe to you, Bethsaeda! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes But it will be more bearable in the judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you. And you, Capernaum, will you be lifted up to heaven? You shall be brought down to Hades. The one who hears you hears me, and the one who rejects you rejects me, and the one who rejects me rejects him who sent me. The seventy-two returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. And he said to them, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you. Nevertheless Do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven. As believers in Jesus, we are not just in the world to mark our time, be good people, and wait until we get to heaven where Jesus returns. No. We are given a mission. to go out into the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Some are called to go to the mission field, serving Jesus in foreign lands and reaching unreached peoples. Others of us are called to a more local mission to reach neighbors and friends, co-workers and family members. Wherever we are called to serve, we should see ourselves as being on mission for Jesus. So how should we engage in the mission of the gospel? Well, today's passage in Luke is the account of Jesus sending out 72 disciples as missionaries. This was a key training event in the life of the church as Jesus was showing the disciples how to engage in gospel missions outreach. Based on this passage, we can see how we are to engage in missions. First of all, prayerfully. Verse 2. Prayer is the great fuel and power source of effective missions. We need to pray for the Lord to send more people into the mission field, and we need to pray for fruit from their labor. Second, we should go peacefully, according to verse 3. We are not to engage in culture wars seeking to vanquish our enemies. No, we are to love and serve innocently and peacefully We are sent out as lambs in the midst of wolves, and though we are hated, we must not hate in return. Third, we are to go faithfully, according to verse 4. We are to be on mission by faith, trusting in God to supply our every need. We should not be anxious. We should not seek to avoid all risk and rely on our own resources. Often God takes us beyond our own resources so He can supply our need. Fourth, we should go confidently. Verses 9 to 11. As Christians, we are kingdom ambassadors, representatives of the kingdom of God. We should not be anxious, worried, timid, shy, or insecure. We should know who we represent and speak his words and show his compassion with confidence. If people reject us, they are not rejecting us, but Him who sent us. And finally, fifth, we should go rejoicing in our salvation. Verse 20 These 72 disciples were given unique, powerful authority over demons and sickness, and they were amazed by the power Jesus had given them. But Jesus told them not to rejoice over power and authority. But instead they were to rejoice that their names are written in heaven. We must not lose sight of this primary cause of our joy, that we are children of God. We have received eternal life in Jesus Christ. So, where is your mission field? Who has God put in your life who needs to hear the gospel or see the love of Jesus in you? Can you engage in your mission with prayer? Peace, faith, confidence, and joy in your salvation? As we do, we can trust that God will work his perfect will even through imperfect people like us. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 119. As we're continuing through this longest Psalm in the Bible, we'll be looking at verses 81 to 120 today and then praying them. My soul longs for your salvation. I hope in your word. My eyes long for your promise. I ask, when will you comfort me For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke, yet I have not forgotten your statutes. How long must your servant endure? When will you judge those who persecute me? The insolent have dug pitfalls for me. For me. They do not live according to your law. All your commandments are sure. They persecute me with falsehood. Help me. They have almost made an end of me on earth, but I have not forgotten your precepts. In your steadfast love, give me life, that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth. Forever, O Lord, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens. Your faithfulness endures to all generations. You have established the earth, and it stands fast. By your appointment they stand this day, for all things are your servants. If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction I will not forget your precepts, for by them you have given me life. I am yours. Save me, for I have sought your precepts. The wicked lie in wait to destroy me, but I consider your testimonies. I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your commandment is exceedingly broad. Oh, how I love your law. It is my meditation all the day. Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies, for it is ever with me. I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the aged, for I keep your precepts. I hold back my feet from every evil way, in order to keep your word. I do not turn aside from your rules, for you have taught me How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth? Through your precepts I get understanding, therefore I hate every false way. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. I have sworn an oath and confirmed it to keep your righteous rules I am severely afflicted. Give me life, O Lord, according to your word. Accept my free will offerings of praise, O Lord, and teach me your rules. I hold my life in my hand continually, but I do not forget your law. The wicked have laid a snare for me, but I do not stray from your precepts Your testimonies are my heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart. I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever, to the end. I hate the double minded, but I love your law. You are my hiding place and my shield. I hope in your word Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God. Uphold me according to your promise, that I may live, and let me not be put to shame in my hope. Hold me up That I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually. You spurn all who go astray from your statutes, for their cunning is in vain All the wicked of the earth you discard like dross. Therefore I love your testimonies. My flesh trembles for fear of you, and I am afraid of your judgments. Let's pray. Father, your word is so perfect. It gives us great wisdom. More wisdom than our enemies, more wisdom than people much older than we are, more wisdom than even those who have been our teachers. If we are rooted grounded and soaking in your word. But the life that you give us is a life that comes according to your promise, according to your steadfast love. Your goodness to us is by grace alone. And we thank you for that. Would you make us faithful in not only delighting in your word, but in spreading your gospel to those around us faithfully, prayerfully? Diligently, boldly, yet gently, and re joyfully, knowing that we are your children We thank you, Father, for this privilege of knowing you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for this time in God's Word. I hope it was a blessing to you. We're off on our 25th week together. I hope you can be with me all week, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.