Good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you as we kick off week 39. We are in John 18, coming to the end of John 18, and we're coming to the end of the Gospel of John. We're coming to the end of our time. In the Gospels. We've just got a couple more weeks left. I hope you can join me for those. I hope these times have been a blessing to you. And today we're in John 18, verses 19 to 27, and we're going to be asking, why does evil prefer to act in secret. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your word and for your son, our Savior. Lord God, please speak to us through your word, and please show us your ways that we might walk in your ways and not in the ways of darkness that characterize the world and that tempt our hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So why does evil prefer to act in secret? Here's John 18, 19 through 27. The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in synagogues and in the temple where all Jews come together. I have said nothing in secret. Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them. They know what I said. When he had said this these things, One of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, Is that how you answer the high priest? Jesus answered him If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong. But if what I said is right, why do you strike me? Annas then sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest. Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself, so they said to him, You also are not one of his servants, disciples, are you? He denied it and said, I am not. One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, asked, Did I not see you in the garden with him? Peter again denied it, and at once a rooster crowed. Jesus stands in such stark contrast to the operations of these men who are putting him on trial in the middle of the night. These Jewish religious leaders who are supposed to be instructors of righteousness. He speaks openly in the synagogues and in the temples. He in the temple. He he teaches large multitudes and crowds. He always says exactly what he means. He doesn't he doesn't uh speak with a forked tongue or with a mask on. He is straightforward. The Jewish leaders, they prefer to do their real dealings in secret. They are ones who put forward a front to the world of being one kind of person and then in the secret shadows are doing something else, whispering conspiracies and plotting evil. They send questioners to challenge Jesus who pretended to ask sincere questions while all the while all they wanted to do was trip Jesus up with something that he said. You see, those who are doing right and who are speaking the truth, they have no need to be ashamed or to hide. They can speak clearly and openly, saying exactly what they mean in front of a watching world. And Jesus exemplifies this perfectly. It's not that he wasn't careful, wise, or nuanced in what he said. He was sensitive. He did speak accurately, insightfully, and often creatively, because he knew when he was being set up for a trap. But he never pretended to be something he wasn't. He was never two-faced, never hypocritical, never insincere, manipulative, or scheming. Never. This gives us an opportunity to do some honest self-evaluation. We need to ask ourselves, are we more like the Jewish leadership or more like Jesus? I'm going to give you five self-diagnosing questions that we need to ask ourselves. First, do we tell people what we think they want to hear instead of telling them the truth? Two, do we pretend to agree with someone just so they will like us even when we don't really agree? Third Have we been guilty of telling someone one thing to their faith and then saying the opposite behind their back? Fourth, do we ask people questions in order to try to trap them or manipulate them And fifth, do we engage in gossip in order to undermine someone's position or authority? Think about that. Think about each one of those questions carefully. The first one, I mean, if we tell people what they want to hear instead of the truth, then we care more about the opinions of men than we do about the truth. Now, we should always speak the truth in love, and we need to be as wise as serpents and gentle as doves, but we should always speak the truth. Think about w the second question, do we agree with someone just so that they'll like us? Like we go along with, even on a minor thing, we pretend to like something we don't, or we pretend to agree with someone on something Because we really want their approval. And the third one is something we should never none of these are things we should ever do, but this this one ought to really be exposing If we if we say something one way to someone's face and then say the opposite thing behind their back. Or asking people questions to trap them and to manipulate them, that fourth question. What's our motivation with the questions? Are we really looking for information? Are we really wanting the truth? Or are we wanting sort of to empower ourselves? And then gossip. Do we engage in gossip to undermine someone else? If we find that our pattern of speaking or relating does resemble this in any of these five areas Well, then we're more like the Jewish leaders than we are like Jesus, and we need to have the courage to ask why are we doing this and to repent of that Usually there's deeper sin patterns underneath. There's roots of pride. There's roots of deep insecurity, anxiety, a lack of faith. We fear the reactions of others. We we don't really love the truth as much as we say we do. We're people pleasers or we're pride-driven manipulators. Once we've uncovered that, we have to confess. We have to own up. We have to say, Lord, I have been deceptive, I have been manipulative, I have been too-faced, I have been controlling because of my pride, or because of my insecurity, or because of my lack of faith. Please forgive me. We have to confess it openly. And then we have to take steps to make things right, to stop doing the things that we know we shouldn't be doing, and to trust Jesus, who is the truth, and who can set us free from these lies. Only in Jesus. Only by finding our hope, our identity, our confidence, our purpose in Jesus can we be free to speak the truth in love, to the glory of God, and to the good of our neighbors, come what may. May the Lord free us to do that today and this week. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we want to be more faithful to you, to who you are, to who you call us to be. We want to be more faithful ambassadors for Christ, faithfully representing the Lord who bought us. Make us more like Jesus and less like the world we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me. And I pray that this lesson was helpful to you. Hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.