Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, week 31, and we're finishing up Luke Today in day one, we're going to be doing the very end of the Gospel of Luke, which means tomorrow we're going to be starting the Gospel of John. And when we start John tomorrow, the format's going to be a little bit different in that it's going to be more extemporaneous. So it'll be a little bit longer because I won't be writing them out ahead of time. And so it'll be a little bit longer, and I won't be doing the the praying the Psalms at the end. We basically have come to the end of the Psalms here with Psalm 148 And so that's the change for tomorrow as we begin the Gospel of John. I'm excited about that. Sunday mornings I'm preaching through Romans and now in our weekday devotionals be going through John. John's my favorite gospel, Romans. My favorite of the New Testament letters, so I'm really excited to be in these two books together with you over these coming weeks. Today, as we are in Luke 24, verses 36 to 53, we're asking, why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? It's a question that Jesus asked in Luke 24. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and for your faithfulness. Thank you for your wonderful word and the time that we have to spend together in your word day by day Please teach us out of your word. Please grow us in our knowledge of you and our love for you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 24, 36 As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, Peace to you. But they were startled and frightened, and thought they saw a spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself, touch me and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see that I have. And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and feet And while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said to them, Have you anything here to eat? They give him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate before them. Then he said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you. that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures and said to them, Thus it is written that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance for the forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations. beginning from Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things, and behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you. But stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high. And he led them as far out as Bethany, and lifting his hands, he blessed them While he blessed them, he parted from them, and was carried up into heaven, and they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy And we're continually in the temple blessing God. So Jesus comes to the disciples in the upper room and says, peace to you, and they're startled and they're frightened. And they think they're seeing a ghost, and he asks them, why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? This had come after numerous eyewitness reports of the resurrection from both women and men, and yet the disciples still doubted. They still questioned in their hearts. Even when Jesus himself came and stood among them. They were frightened and thought they saw a spirit. Why are we so quick to doubt and so slow to believe? Jesus gave his disciples a gentle rebuke in the form of this question, Why are you troubled and why do doubts arise in your hearts? And then in gentle compassion, he offered them further proof That he was not a ghost or a spirit, touch me and see, have you anything here to eat? Isaiah 52, 3 says, A bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench Not only did the Lord offer them physical proof to satisfy their doubting hearts, but he also examined, explained the scriptures to them. He explained the scriptures to them to satisfy their questioning and confused minds. Then verses forty-four and forty-five, he said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. Then he opened their minds. to understand the scriptures. When we doubt, we need to turn to two places with our questions, to the Lord in prayer and to his word in study. He is gentle and compassionate. He is wise and patient. He will comfort our hearts. If we earnestly seek him, he will enlighten our minds by his Holy Spirit. to satisfy our understanding of the truth. Peter, who was one of those doubting and questioning disciples on that first Easter, that first resurrection day, this is what he later wrote to help reassure us in Second Peter one. For we did not follow clearly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ But we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. For when he received honor and glory from God the Father, and the voice was borne to him by the majestic glory, this is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. We ourselves heard this very voice born from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain. And we have the prophetic word more fully confirmed, to which you will do well to pay attention. as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. That day is coming. When faith will become sight, when doubt will be swallowed up with joy. But until that day, we turn to the scriptures, the prophetic word. More fully confirmed, to which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place, and to prayer to reassure our hearts when they are full of doubt. Well let's go to the Psalms. And pray. So we'll turn to the Word of God and we'll turn to prayer as we close out here by looking at Psalm 148. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord from the heavens, praise him in the heights, praise him, all his angels, praise him, all his hosts, praise him, sun and moon, praise him, all you shining stars, praise him, you highest heavens. And you waters above the heavens, let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded, and they were created, and he established them forever and ever. And he gave a decree And it shall not pass away. Praise the Lord from the earth, you great sea creatures, and all deeps fire and hail, snow and mist, stormy wind fulfilling his word, mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars, beasts and all livestock, creeping things and flying birds Kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and all rulers of the earth, young men and maidens together, old men and children, let them praise the name of the Lord For his name alone is exalted, his majesty is above earth and heaven. He has raised up a horn for his people, praise for all his saints, for the people of Israel. who are near to him, praise the Lord. One thing that Psalm 148 would encourage us to do is to realize that all of creation is giving glory to God. And if we get out into his creation and we see the works of God, together with being in his word, this can also strengthen our faith. And we can join the chorus of praise from all creation, which is what we're called to do. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, your majesty, your glory is seen in all your works, from the rising and the setting of the sun to the starry skies at night. For the hills and the mountains and the trees and the animals, you have displayed your glory and your power, but in your word, you've given us assurance. You've given us truth. You've given us confirmation in promises fulfilled, in prophecies fulfilled. You have given us a gift. to quiet our doubting hearts, to ease our anxiety, by pouring ourselves into the study of your word and pouring our hearts out before you in prayer. May we do that day by day, Lord, and may you use these means of grace to strengthen our faith in you, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me here for Psalm 148 and the end of the Gospel of Luke. I hope that this time in God's Word, weekdays, is a blessing to you. Looking forward to starting the Gospel of John tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that and have a blessed day in the Lord.