Good morning, welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church So good to be with you. We're in our third day of our 33rd week. So we got 333 up there on the screen. And we are in the middle of John 6. We're going to be taking the second part of John 6, one of the most famous teachings of Jesus, also one of the most misunderstood and controversial teachings of Jesus, because we're going to be considering the question of what did Jesus mean by eating his flesh and drinking his blood. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God, thank you so much for your word. Please help us to understand your word by the power of your Holy Spirit. Help us to have a clear knowledge of the truth and be led to know and follow Jesus more closely. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, John 6, 22 to 59. On the next day, the crowd that remained on the other side of the sea saw that there had been only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but that his disciples had gone away alone. Other boats from Tiberius came near the place where he had after they had eaten the bread, after the Lord had given thanks. So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats and went to Capernaum seeking Jesus. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me. Not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. Do not work for the food that perishes. but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. For on him God the Father has set his seal. Then they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent So they said to him, Then what sign do you do, that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. They said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst But I said to you, that you have seen me, and yet do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me. that I should lose nothing of all that He has given me, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the sun and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. So the Jews grumbled about him because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day It is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God, he has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. The Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day, for my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him As the Living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live for ever. Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, This is a hard saying. Who can listen to it? But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, Do you take offense at this? Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some of you who do not believe For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him, and he said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father. Father. After this many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. So Jesus said to the twelve, Do you want to go away as well? Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, and we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Jesus answered them Did I not choose you, the twelve? And yet one of you was a devil. He spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going to betray him. Okay, so this is our passage. I think I read a little bit more than I was supposed to read, but at the heart of this passage is a paragraph that has proved to be more divisive. more offensive, more polarizing than any other of the teachings of Jesus. When he first spoke these words, Many people reacted and said, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? I mean it's it's kind of disgusting if you think about it on a on a fleshly level, on a human level. And so this has really this divided the church because there are some people who say, well, Jesus said we have to eat his flesh. and drink his blood, or we have no life in us. And so they take it to mean that in the Lord's Supper, or in communion You are eating the the actual physical flesh of Jesus and you are drinking his actual blood because they say Jesus is the one who said we have to do that But context is king. Whenever you have a controversial passage or a difficult verse, you need to look for context. And you also need to let Scripture interpret Scripture. And the rule is always to let the clearer passage interpret the less clear passage, or the controversial, or the disputed passage. So, in the context of what came before and what comes after, it's clear that Jesus is not talking about literally eating his flesh and drinking his blood. He's not being literal there. He's rather talking about coming to him and believing in him So how do we know this? Well, Jesus says, whoever eats his flesh and drink his blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day But earlier in verse 40, if you look at verse 40, Jesus says, For this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. You see that? In verse 44. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day Verse 47, truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. So coming to Jesus and believing in Jesus gives people two things. They have eternal life. And they will be raised up on the last day. Those are the two things. So when Jesus says later that if anyone uh eats My flesh and drinks my blood, he will have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. That is just another way of talking about coming to Jesus and believing in him. And then after the passage, which is fifty-four and fifty-five, is where he says, Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. After that He then says to his disciples, The words, sorry, verse 63, it is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and So he's talking about spiritual realities. He's talking about the work of the Holy Spirit in the heart and mind and soul of a person. not about the physical act of eating or drinking. So in the Lord's Supper, the more important thing that's happening is what's happening in the soul of the believer. in the heart and mind and soul of a believer who's exercising faith, who is coming to Jesus and who is feeding his soul on him, who's taking in his life. So so why if if what Jesus means by the context is that we're supposed to come to him and believe in him, why would he even talk about eating his flesh and drinking his blood? He had to know that that was going to cause controversy. Well, first up, the context also tells us that Jesus is intentionally using provocative and divisive language because he actually wanted to drive people away. How do we know that? Because this massive crowd of people was full of most of them who were just looking to Jesus as a guy who could give them free food. And even after he begins to speak to them about the true bread that comes down from heaven, unlike the manna that Moses gave in the wilderness, which was was a physical food that was renewed every day. There is a true bread that comes down from heaven. Even after he says, I am the bread of life, the people respond by saying, Sir, give us this bread always. In other words, please keep feeding us so that we don't have to be hungry. Now, to be sympathetic to the crowd, in the first century People worked hard for their daily bread. When the Lord's Prayer says, give us this day our daily bread. People would work hard to be able to get just enough money to be able to feed themselves and their family and have a very little bit left over for anything else. Food was really vital and it was a major part of everyone's life expense. The culture that we live in where food is abundant and relatively cheap It's just very, very different. And so for the people to have this Messiah figure come along who can give free food forever, they want that. But that's not what Jesus came to do. And so he uses stark, offensive language. There's few things that could be more offensive to a Jewish audience than to talk about cannibalism. And so that's to drive them away. But there's also a positive reason why Jesus uses this language. He's not just trying to drive people away. He is trying to teach us something. That benefits us. Because there are people who will say, Yes, I've come to Jesus, and yes, I've believed in Jesus, and He will raise me up on the last day, and I have eternal life in Him. when actually Jesus isn't really a vital part of their life. Jesus is not their Lord and Savior. He's not um the vital center of who they are. But, you know, they made a profession of faith, they prayed a prayer years ago, they go to church every once in a while. They kind of culturally identify themselves as a Christian, but Jesus is not really integral to who they are. And that's why this language is telling us that when Jesus says Whoever looks to me, comes to me, believes in me, that means more than just I prayed a prayer, I made a confession of faith I made a decision for Jesus. It means more than that. It means that who Jesus is and what Jesus has done for us is part of us in the core of our being. Much like when you take bread and you eat it, take wine and you drink it, it gets taken into your body And it actually becomes your body. You know that? The bread you eat, the the drink that you drink. It gets digested in such a way that the amino acids and the proteins and the and the ATP and all the stuff that your body gets out of it, the vitamins stuff, it is it's built into your body. It becomes your body. And so Jesus wants us to know that faith in him is not an external thing, but rather it unites us to him. So that by faith, by true and saving faith, we are in him and he is in us. It's a union with Christ by faith that saves us. Secondly, Jesus also wants us to ponder the meaning of his life and his death by contemplating his body as bread, his blood, the wine as blood. Jesus' life is our life, just as bread was fundamental and essential to life. Give us this day our daily bread. It was the staple of the diet, especially of working class people. That's pretty much all they ate day in and day out was bread. It was nutritious, it was made with barley, it was it was more robust than like the bleached white bread that you get at the grocery store today, but it was it was how they sustain themselves. Jesus's life is our life. We live eternally and spiritually because he lives. His resurrection body is the pledge of our resurrection body and is the eternal life that we experience now. His life is our life. That's what it means when he says, I am the bread of life. And then Jesus' death on the cross, the shedding of his blood, is our forgiveness. It's our cleansing of all sin. And so Jesus is the life we need, and he's the forgiveness we need. He is the righteousness we need. He is the eternal life we need. He's also the cleansing that we need. But we don't need Jesus in some superficial way, as some notion we hold in our minds and think about every once in a while. We need Jesus in the deepest part of who we are. We need his life to be our life inside and out. We need him to be our peace with God, our forgiveness, our reconcilation with God. from the deepest part of us. And that's why he uses this language. Because he's already said what it means, really, which is that we come to him and we believe in him. But lest we misunderstand and think that that could be some superficial He then talks about eating his flesh and drinking his blood to say, no, this has to become part of who you are, at the very core of your being. It has to change you from the inside. So by believing in him with the deepest life-changing faith, that's what it means to eat his And in the Lord's Supper, we do commune with him, but also we we are looking for that faith to be renewed and strengthened in him in the deepest level. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for giving your son Jesus. His life is our life. His death is our peace and our forgiveness and our recognition. Reconciliation. We have no life. We have no peace. We have no forgiveness. We have no reconciliation with you that comes apart from Jesus. It's all found in Him. So may our faith in him ever deepen and strengthen. May our union with him be the defining characteristic of our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much again for joining me as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope that these uh daily devotionals are a uh blessing to you. They are to me. I hope look forward to seeing you again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.