Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Demel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church here on day 857, and we're in Ecclesiastes 7. Let's pray. Father in heaven, your word is a blessing and a gift to us. We thank you for it. We ask that you would write the message of Ecclesiastes 7 on our hearts that we might take it to heart and might walk in wisdom and humility and gratitude before. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ecclesiastes 7. A good name is better than precious ointment. And the day of death than the day of birth. It is better to go to the house of mourning than to the house of feasting, for this is the end of all mankind, and the living will lay it to heart Sorrow is better than laughter. For by sadness of face the heart is made glad. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. It is better for a man to hear the rebuke of the wise than to hear the song of fools. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fools. This also is vanity Surely oppression drives the wise into madness, and a bribe corrupts the heart? Better is the end of a thing than its beginning, and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit Be not quick in your spirit to become angry, for anger lodges in the heart of fools. this. Wisdom is good with an inheritance, an advantage to those who see the sun, for the protection of wisdom is like the protection of money, and the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of him who has it. Consider the work of God. Who can make straight what he has made crooked In the day of prosperity, be joyful, and in the day of adversity consider. God has made the one as well as the other, so that man may not find out anything that will be after him In my vain life, I have seen everything. There is a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who prolongs his life in his evil doing Be not overly righteous, and do not make yourself too wise. Why should you destroy yourself? Be not overly wicked, neither be a fool. Why should you die before your time? It is good that you should take hold of this, and from that withhold not your hand, for the one who fears God shall come forth from both of them. Wisdom gives strength to the wise man, more than ten rulers who are in a city. Surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins 'Do not take to heart all the things that people say, lest you hear your servant cursing you. Your heart knows that many times you yourself have cursed others. All this I have tested by wisdom. I have said I will be wise, but it was Far from me. That which has been is far off and deep, very deep. Who can find it out? I turned my heart to know and to search, and to seek wisdom and the scheme of things, and to know the wickedness of folly, and the foolishness that is madness. And I find something more bitter than death, the woman whose heart is snares and nets, and whose hands are fetters, he who pleases God escapes her. Behold, this is what I found, says the preacher, while adding one thing to another to find out the scheme of things which my soul has sought repeatedly, but I have not found. One man among a thousand I found, but a woman among all these I have not found Not found. See this alone I found that God made man upright, but they have sought out many Schemes. This is kind of the heart of what I call the Proverbs section of Ecclesiastes. In that we do have here a whole series of Proverbs. And the Proverbs are largely centered around contrasting wisdom and folly. So in this, this has much more in common with the book of Proverbs. The book of Proverbs is largely written by Solomon, with some later chapters added by later kings and rulers. And it was probably written by Solomon earlier in his life because it's really packaged as wisdom to a son who is coming of age. And Ecclesiastes written by Solomon at the end of his life. So it's tempered. It has um a bit more of a of a realistic edge to it. Some people have described it by saying Proverbs is the way the world should work and the way that you should live. Whereas Ecclesiastes describes the way the world actually works and the way people actually live. And so it's still better to be wise than foolish, and there's still benefits to wisdom. But much of what Proverbs uh talks about is is the ideal and the good advice, the wise counsel. But Ecclesiastes is a little bit of the world weary saint who has seen it and who has uh experienced it and who kind of understands the complexities and the difficulties of trying to sort things out into neat categories in life under the sun. But there's still very much good wisdom in both, of course, and they're both the word of God, and they're both necessary. So here we have some proverbs. A good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of birth. The first part of that seems like something straight out of Proverbs. A good name is better than precious ointment. The second part of it, the day of death and the day of birth. What? And then it continues, it is better to go to the house of mourning than to the house of feasting? What? And look at verse 3. Sorrow is better than laughter? What? So this is confusing. Like, what are you talking about? This seems totally counterintuitive. Well, look at what he's saying. Why is it better? Because all men die. Everyone dies. And what we need is ballast in our lives. You see, a ship That has no ballast, it has no weight down in the hull of the ship to keep it low in the water, to keep it upright. is very easily tossed about by the wind and the waves because it's too light. It stays up on the surface of the water. And it gets tossed around by the wind and the waves and it easily capsizes in the storm. But a s a ship that has ballast, rocks you know, metal in the hull keeps it lower in the water and helps it find its center again. What gives our lives balance Is the perspective that we will die. We are mortal. We will not live forever in this life under the sun. the sun. And so we should take it to heart. We should take it to heart. The end of all mankind is that we all end up in a casket, or these days in an urn, because Queen Nations more and more popular, we're not gonna do that, but we all end up the centerpiece of a funeral or memorial service at the end. So it's good to go to funeral. and to take that to heart. Don't miss an opportunity to go to a funeral. For one, it's a great way to show love and support to the family of the deceased. You know, if uh a poorly attended funeral is just sad. It speaks of a life that didn't impact very many people and wasn't a life of significance. But a well attended funeral is a comfort to the family to know, oh, this person's life impacted many people. So go to funerals to support the family, but also go to funerals to be confronted by your own mortality. To be called to account for how your life is measuring up and what people will say about you when all is said and done. Just like married couples should not miss weddings. If you can go to a wedding, it's a great reminder of your own wedding vows and a great reminder of the commitments you've made. So that's good, strong advice. And along those lines, verse 5, it is better for a man to hear the rebuke of the wise than to hear the song of fools. You know, happy party music that life is, you know, life is a highway and you know if it makes you happy it can't be that bad. and girls just want to have fun and all this sort of light-hearted happy music is really just the song of fools. And again, maybe fun to dance to, maybe fun to sing along to, but is it really going to help your life have meaning? It's better to be rebuked by the wise so that you can attend to the errors of your ways and and And uh you know, straighten up and fly right. For the crackling of thorns under a pot, as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fools. This also is vanity. Don't spend too much time around people who don't really take life seriously. Now, that doesn't mean that life is joyless. We've seen enough in Ecclesiastes. by this point to know. Eat, drink, be merry, enjoy the work God's giving you. Be satisfied. Enjoy life. Life is in many ways full of good things that we don't deserve. That we should receive as gifts and be thankful for. But there's also a need for perspective. Perspective. Verse 7. Surely oppression drives the wise into madness, and a bribe corrupts the heart. That's the way it works in this world, doesn't it? The bribe. We were talking in class that I teach about A kleptocracy. And a kleptocracy is a society that is based upon corruption. Where the people who have power are just there waiting for a bribe. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning. And the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. You can boast and you can have your chest puffed out and you can be full of swagger of youth, or you can be patient and persevere. severe and see something through to the end, and that's far better. Don't become angry in your spirit quickly, right? For anger lodges in the heart of fools. Also, this is one, verse 10, that many of us need to take to heart. Say not why were the former days better than these, for it is not from wisdom that you ask. this. We live in a day and age where everybody is catastrophizing everything that's happening in the world as though the world is coming to And then the sky is falling. The world's never been as terrible as it is now. It's horrible. And all the days in the past, the former days were better than these. That's not wisdom. That's not wisdom. Wisdom understands that the world has been crooked since the fall, broken, deeply and profoundly broken. Solomon is writing this 3,000 years ago. And he sees a world full of oppression, full of corruption, full of foolishness. It's the same world, populated by the same kinds of people. No, the past wasn't better than the present. No, the present isn't better than the past. What's better is to have wisdom. And wisdom is good. And here the emphasis is on the practical advantages of wisdom. It provides you with protection. You know, the saying knowledge is power. Well wisdom is a safeguard. Because it's a safeguard against scammers and quick fixes and you know uh just false promises because you're grounded by wisdom. Verse 13 is profound Consider the work of God. Who can make straight what he has made crooked? See, we might think the other way around that we make it crooked, God made it straight. The world, in addition to be fallen, in addition to being fallen and under like fallen humanity, is also under the curse. God has cursed this world and people in this world because of sin and because of the fall. And so we need to Take that to heart. God has made the world crooked by his judgment, by his wrath You're not going to straighten it out. People who pursue utopian schemes like a classless society or the elimination of poverty, you know, the war on poverty was launched by President Johnson in nineteen And we've spent hundreds of billions of dollars to eliminate poverty in America only to have a greater wealth gap between the rich and the poor, more homeless people than ever before, more people addicted to drugs on able to keep a job. Like it doesn't work. You can't make straight what God has made crooked. Does that mean you give up and you don't love your neighbor? No, you should love your neighbor. You should care. You should have compassion on those who are in suffering But keep things in perspective. You're not going to make utopia in this world. In the day of prosperity, be joyful. In the day of adversity, consider God has made the one as well as the other, so that man may not find out anything that will be after him. You may be up today and down tomorrow. Economists. I was listening to a podcast, uh history podcast, talking about the magicians of the middle to late middle ages. And these magicians were people who thought they could predict the future by reading signs. And of course we know that that's largely nonsense or worse, right? But he compared it to economists. The modern-day economist thinks that they can read science. in the economy and tell you if we're going to a recession or if we're going into a boom cycle. And you know what? They're wrong. They're just as inaccurate as the magicians of the late Middle Ages. They don't know what they're talking about. talking about because you can't predict the future. Only God knows the future. And then a real good dose of realism comes here starting in Verse 15 In my vain life I've seen everything. There's a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness. There's a wicked man who prolongs his life in evil doing. Be not overly righteous. Do not make yourself too wise. Why should you destroy yourself? Be not overly wicked, neither a fool. Why should you die before your time? It is good that you should take hold of this, and from that withhold not your hand, for the one who fears God shall come out from both of them. So Righteous people. Some people think, some people really think, that if they pursue righteousness wholeheartedly, and they are just you know, absolutely dedicated with a with a zeal to always being right, that that will protect them. It does not it does not protect you And in fact, you can become arrogantly self-righteous. You can become smug and content and self-satisfied in your self-righteousness and actually be pretty well wicked. So foolishness, wickedness, destroy people. And it's a form of foolishness and wickedness to try to be the most righteous and the wisest person. There. Like I always have to be the smartest person in the room. That's actually foolishness, right? I'm gonna be more righteous than anybody else around me. You people are terrible. I'm sorry. That's actually wicked Catch that? Self-righteous arrogance, those are the people Jesus always confronted, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Scribes, the teachers of the law. He confronted them, but also foolish people, who are wasteful and You need to stay away from that. We need to trust God and walk by faith and humility. Wisdom, wisdom gives strength to the wise man, more than ten rulers. who are in a city. Surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and ever sins. Wisdom will teach you that. Look around you. Examine your own heart. There are no sin-free people in this world And if you think you're going to become a sin-free person, you're going to be arrogant, self-deceived, and self-righteous. Don't take to heart all the things people say. Lest you hear your servant cursing you, your heart knows that you yourself many times have cursed others. Think about how many times you have participated in gossip about other people. Don't deny it. You have. We all have. So don't be surprised when other people are gossiping about you. Does that make gossip right? No, it's wrong. In fact, when you hear how much it hurts when other people gossip about you it ought to be a reminder to you the next time you're hearing gossip to say no that's not something I want to participate. I'm not going to tear that person down to make myself feel better. It's not going to be Good. All this where does Solomon get all this? All this I've tested by wisdom. I said I'll be wise, but it was far from me. That which has been as far off and deep, very deep. can find it out. Solomon learned because he pursued wisdom, because he was the wisest man who had ever lived by his day, he learned how much he did know. The wise man knows how much he doesn't know. The one who thinks he's wise is a fool. The truly wise man understands how ignorant he truly is Final paragraph of Ecclesiastes seven If you search things out, if you try to understand the patterns of human behavior, wisdom, the scheme of things, wickedness, folly. foolishness, madness. What you find is what's concluded at the end of here, which is that God has made man upright, but they've sought out many schemes Some people are greedy and oppressing the poor. Some people are foolish and wasteful with what God has given them. Some people are smug and secure in their own wisdom. They're really foolish. Some people are arrogantly self-satisfied in their own righteousness, but they're really wicked. Some people are vain and consumed with superficial things, right? Some people are gossips and backstabbers and slanderers. Like God made everyone upright. We're all made in the image of God. We all have a conscience. But we sought out many schemes. What should that do for us? It should humble us. It should humble us so that we know how much we need Jesus. Because he's the one who resets things back to the way that God intended man to be. Jesus is the perfect God-man, the perfect image of God. We need him to re demon restore us. We can't do it on our own. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, the perfect image of God. The one who is the truth of God, the real wisdom of God, and the real righteousness of God in human form. Forever. He's our redeemer, and we need him to redeem us. He's our savior, our our ransom, our forgiveness, our sanctification, and oh how we need him So help us to trust in Jesus and cling to Jesus, we pray in his name. Amen. Amen. Well that's Ecclesiastes 7. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 8. Hope that chapter was a blessing to you. It's challenging, but it's good for us to hear these things. Have a blessed day in the Lord.