Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 852nd day together in God's Word, and we come today to Ecclesiastes. Chapter four. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It is a privilege to be able to gather and be in your word day by day. You give us such a banquet to feast On in your word. And some parts of your word confront the difficult realities of life in this world. That's what we have before us in Ecclesiastes 4. We pray that you would write it on our hearts. And that you would help us to walk with you by faith as we go through this passage together today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. Ecclesiastes chapter four. Again I saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun, and behold the tears of the oppressed, and they had no one to comfort them. On the side of their oppressors there was power, and there was no one to comfort them. And I thought, the dead, who are already dead more fortunate than the living who are still alive, but better than both is he who has not yet been and has not seen the evil deeds that are done under the sun. Then I saw that all toil and skill in work come from a man's envy of his neighbor. This also is vanity and a strong striving after wind. The fool folds his hands and eats his own flesh. Better is a handful of quietness than two hands full of toil and a strife so that he never asks, For whom am I toiling and depriving myself of pleasure? This also is vanity and an unhappy business. Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil. For if they fall, one will lift up his fellow but woe to him who is alone, when he falls and has not another to lift him up Again, if two lie together they keep warm, but how can one keep warm alone? And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him. A threefold cord is not quickly broken Better was a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king who no longer knew how to take advice, for he went from prison to the throne, though in his own kingdom he had been born poor. I saw all the living who move about under the sun, along with that youth who was to stand in the king's place. There was no end of all the people, all of whom he led Yet those who come later will not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and a striving after wind. That's Ecclesiastes chapter 4. Life in this fallen world is painful, brutal at times. We are not basically good people, and life in this world often bears the marks of human wickedness. And we see that very clearly here in Ecclesiastes 4. There are oppressions done under the sun in this life, life in this world, full of oppression. There are those who have power and money and position, and they use their power and their money and their position to exploit and oppress and use, step on people who are beneath them. them and it's not the fact that they have power or money or position that makes them oppressors. It's the darkness of the human heart which is allowed to manifest and given freedom by the fact that that they have wealth or position or power. So our hearts are the problem. Our nature fallen is the problem. And it's terrible. And so bad is it that Solomon here says, the dead who are already dead are more fortunate than the living who are alive, and better than both, is he who has not yet been, and who's not seen the evil deeds done under the sun. In Solomon's day, there was very little godly influence in the world. Slavery was universal. Empires and warfare and kings and were brutal. Okay, there was regular seasonal warfare and war could be it still is extremely brutal. or Gaza, um and they're they're dealing with incredibly brutal war and realities of war. And this is just part of it. And when you see those things, you see what happens in war, you see what happens from conflict between those who are being oppressed and those who are oppressing and those who are trying to gain power. And it it's very easy to say. We'd be better off not to be in this world. Right? And that's the way things look under the sun. And then he looks at someone who's not necessarily oppressing or being oppressed, just an average person. Who's working hard to get ahead in life? Right? We use that expression, working hard to get ahead in life. What do we mean by get ahead in life? Well what we normally mean is getting ahead of our neighbor, right? Keeping up with the Joneses or staying one step ahead of the Joneses. We work and we work hard. All toil and all skill and work come from a man's envy of his neighbor. This also is vanity and striving after the wind. It's as vain as as the oppression. It's it's not real. It's not lasting. Well, in a world like that, in a world of oppressors and oppressed, and vanity and coveting and striving to be better than, maybe it's better to just give up. Quit. Well, not so fast. Verse 5, the fool folds his hands and eats his own flesh. I think that's describing what Proverbs would call the sluggard. The one who basically says I'm just gonna check out and not do anything. And then you end up consuming yourself because you end up stealing from yourself because you're not using the things that God has given you. So what's the solution? The solution is verse six. Better is a handful of quietness than two hands full of toil and a striving after wind. A handful. Just enough so you can hold it in your hand. your daily bread, your portion from God, with quietness, with with contentment, with satisfaction, with a gratitude in the heart that says, this is enough and I'm content. Rather than two hands full of toil and a striving after one, we always want to have more. Grasping, right? Better to be receiving with gratitude than grasping with avarice. That's the solution. Quietness requires gratitude and contentment. Well, he moves on to say there's another kind of vanity under the sun, and that is people who don't have anyone in their lives to share their good things with or to help them out when they're in distress. A person who has no other, either son or brother. They can work hard and never be satisfied. They can have those two hands full of toil striving after wind, and there's no one to share it with. For whom am I toiling and depriving myself of pleasure It's vanity and an unhappy business. What's much, much better is if you have someone in your life, a friend, a relative, a brother, a son. a husband, a wife, you have someone in your life that you could be working alongside and helping one another. God places the lonely in families. And ultimately I think this is pointing us to the church. Christians are not meant to live a Christian life on our own, just growing in the Lord, seeking the Lord, praying, singing, listening. By ourselves and for ourselves, like Lone Ranger Christianity is not biblical Christianity. Solo Christianity is not biblical Christianity Christianity. We should be in the church. We should be in community. We should be working together. And obviously Christian marriages are best, you know, when you have a husband and wife or Christian family with parents. Parents and children. But the the church is the family of God. It's the household of faith. It's where God puts people who might not be married or might not have children. widows, widowers, singles. In the church, we can find this place. We can find this place. I do want to say something really quickly. about the end of verse 12. A threefold cord is not quickly broken. That's so often quoted at weddings. And the picture is a threefold cord is the husband and wife and Jesus. And that's true. Like it's true that a marriage is much stronger if Christ is at the center, but that's not what Ecclesiastes 4 is talking about. It's talking about having a close companion. Though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand them a threefold chord is not quickly breaking broken. So it's good to have two or better than two is three. So a plurality of close companions is better than the being alone in this world. And then Ecclesiastes 4 ends with this paragraph contrasting a poor and wise youth and an old and foolish king. Now, in the ancient world, wealth was prized over poverty, and age was prizover youthfulness, because age was considered to be a sign of wisdom and existence. experience. But here's an old fool, king, who doesn't know how to take advice. So in the Bible's estimation, it's better to be teachable, humble. open to reason rather than thinking you know it all and puffed up with pride and not listening to anybody, this youth goes from prison to the throne. He goes from being born in poverty to reigning over a vast multitude of people. Because he's a person of wisdom. And I do think we can get a little bit of a picture of Christ from this final chapter here, this final paragraph of chapter four. Because Christ was born in poverty. And Christ was thrown in prison. Christ was ultimately Christ was ultimately condemned to death. But then he sits on the throne. Right? And there's no end of all the people, all of whom he led. Christ is king of a countless multitude. I think There's very much a little picture of Christ here. Even in the fact that those who come later don't rejoice in him. How many people have been born into this world since Jesus lived and died and rose again? and was seated at the right hand of the Father where he says, This King of Kings and Lord of Lords and How many people, how many billions of people have come and gone, and how many of those don't rejoice in Christ? That is vanity and Striving after wind to not rejoice in the king who was born in poverty and thrown in prison and is now king over all. We should rejoice in Christ, especially if we've come to know Him. We have come to know the One whose kingdom transcends life under the sun. We serve the One whose kingdom is not served But to live life as if Christ doesn't matter, to live life as if Christ doesn't reign, that is true foolishness. Pray. Father, thank you for this word from Ecclesiastes 4. Please help us to live as those who are aware of how blessed we are in Jesus, who work hard with contentment. And gratitude, who don't strive after wind, but who seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things are added to us by your grace. Grace and for your glory. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today for Ecclesiastes 4. We are going to go back to the Gospel of John tomorrow and to John chapter 9. Hope you can join me for that, have a blessed day in the Lord.