Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forrest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with us today, if I can get my camera straight. It's our 863rd day together in the Word of God, and we are in Ecclesiastes chapter 11. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this beautiful and powerful book of Ecclesiastes, how it challenges us and comforts us. and calls us to trust in you through all the various realities we deal with in this fallen world. Write Ecclesiastes 11 on our hearts today by your Spirit, for your glory in us and through us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Ecclesiastes chapter 11. Cast your bread upon the waters, for you will find it after many days. Give a portion to seven, or even to eight, for you know not what disaster may happen on earth If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth, and if a tree falls to the south or to the north, in the place where the tree falls, there it will lie He who observes the wind will not sow, and he who regards the clouds will not reap. As you do not know the way the spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a woman with child, so you do not know the work of God who makes everything. In the morning, sow your seed, and at evening withhold not your hand, for you do not know which will prosper, this or that, or whether both alike will be good. Light is sweet, and it is pleasant for the eyes to see the sun. So if a person lives many years, let him rejoice in them all. But let him remember that the days of darkness will be many All that comes is vanity. Rejoice, O young man, in your youth, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth Walk in the ways of your heart and the sight of your eyes, but know that for all these things God will bring you into judgment. Remove vexation from your heart, and put away pain from your body, for youth and the dawn of life are vanity. Alright, so Ecclesiastes 11 opens with a very unusual metaphor. Cast your bread upon the waters, for you will find it after many days. What in the world is this talking about? Because why would you throw bread on water? Um if you throw bread on the water it's gonna come back to you? What does it even mean? Um I I think maybe the best way to interpret it is just by in light of the next verse, which is give a portion to seven or even to eight. for you know not what disaster may happen on earth. One of the themes of Ecclesiastes 11 is because life is unpredictable and you don't really know what's going to come, you should um you know, diversify your investment portfolio, I guess is a contemporary way of putting that. You should work in a variety of different ways. You should work in a variety of different times. You should invest in a variety of different things. because that's going to to to yield a better return. There is a traditional Jewish and Christian interpretation that basically says when you have extra bread Give it to the poor, give it to the needy, cast it upon the waters, and it'll come back to you. Your generosity to those who are in need in your day of blessing. will come back to you. And that I certainly think is true. The Bible does teach that, that if you have an abundance you should share it with those who are in need, and that will be repaid to you by the Lord in his own good time. But I don't know if that's exactly what this verse means, because I don't think anybody can know for sure what the verse means because it's not a metaphor that we use anymore. So if the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth. If a tree falls to the south of the north, and the place where the tree falls, there it will lie. I mean he's who just like the way the world works is the way that the world works is kind of the way that I interpret this verse. And Um you see full rain clouds, you know it's gonna rain somewhere. They're not just gonna stay full, it's gonna come down, right? And you know that when a tree falls, it's gonna fall, it's gonna lie there. So you you shouldn't work against the way the world is Uh some some Christians have a mindset of the Christian faith or spirituality that's kind of against And I don't mean against the world as in don't be worldly, lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life. We should be like contra mundam. We should be against the world in terms of worldliness. But some are like almost like, well, if you're trusting God, then you don't have to work hard. If you're praying and trusting God, then you don't have to have a retirement account. If you're praying and trusting God, then you don't have to lock your doors at night. And I think Ecclesiastes, in many ways, a splash of cold water to the face of that way of thinking. Like, no, we live in a fallen world, and there are harsh realities you have to deal with. And God doesn't call you to be a fool. In fact, God calls you to walk in wisdom. And so work with the way the world is, right? And not the way that you wish the world would be Don't don't live a Pollyanna sort of somewhere over the rainbow kind of kind of a dreamy lifestyle. Be practical and And be real. At the same time, don't live your life in fear. Because verse four would counter that by saying, He who observes the wind will not sow, he who regards the clouds will not read. That means if you're always like Oh which way's the wind blow? Oh I better not sow my seed today, it's gonna get blown away by the wind and oh there's dark rainclouds coming. I better not reap today 'cause it'll rain in the middle of reaping the harvest and then all the produce or the grain will get wet and that'll ruin it Um you don't want to make you do want to make your hay while the sun shines, as the old saying goes, um, but we can become overly paranoid, overly anxious by looking at all the signs. in the weather and in the circumstances around us and be held back from just doing what we know is the right thing to do. It's time to sow, sow, it's time to reap, reap Right? You accept the world as it is and you know that not all of it is under your control and not all of it is something that you can necessarily predict or control. Our next verse, verse 5, as you do not know the way the Spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a woman with child. So you d so you do not know the work of God who makes everything. This is a profound verse where. God is teaching us that He does a human being being knit together in his mother's womb, her mother's womb, does have their spirit, their soul, right in the womb. There's there are some people who try to justify abortion, for example, even some Christian, so-called Christian people who try to justify abortion who say, well, until the baby takes a breath Right, until they breathe in. They don't really have a soul and they're not really human. That's an awful way of thinking. That is not anywhere in scripture. Scripture is very clear. Psalm 139, Jeremiah 1, here in Ecclesiastes 11 you know, Luke 1 when Mary encounters Elizabeth repeatedly in scripture uh it's shown that that the baby in the womb is a human being and it's alive And and at some point in time it's it's in some way, right, the spirit comes into the child, right? The soul of the child comes into the child when it's in the womb. Well we can't fully understand that. And so That means we can't fully understand the work of God in the world. So we need to be willing to hold that in mystery and be silent before it and not say, oh, let's be reckless and destructive. with life in the womb, with life's morning afterfills and stuff like that. All that stuff needs to be not a part of any Christian's thinking because God is at work there And we need to respect the work of God in the womb, just as we respect the work of God in the world. Um In the morning sow your seed, at evening withhold not your hand. You do not know which one will prosper. Again, this is, like I said, one of the themes in Ecclesiastes eleven is Keep working in all the ways that you have available to work. Do what God gives you to do and work at it with all your might, right, as unto the Lord, because you don't know what God's going to bless and you don't know what God's going to use. We we can see this in opportunities to witness. You have an opportunity to say, God bless you to somebody, instead of just, hey, have a nice day. or you have a an opportunity to ask someone, how can I be praying for you or to speak a word about the Lord, sow your seed. Sow the seed of the Word in any opportunity you have, small ways, big ways. You may not have a time to sit down and have a heart to heart conversation with someone about the gospel. But you can drop little seed hints. But it also applies to just the practical things of life, like work hard at your work, you know, take care to save wisely and invest wisely. Those things are things that God calls us to as well. Don't be presumptuous. Don't think, oh, I know what's going to work. I'm going to put all my money in this investment, or I'm going to wait until just the right opportunity to share the gospel. No, you're not God. You're not in control. You don't know what the future holds. You don't know what God's going to use or not going to use. So just be diligent and faithful with the things that God gives you to do. And then the end of this chapter is really calling us to enjoy the life that God's given us. But knowing that it's vanity. And here I think. This chapter particularly, this section of chapter 11, is part of what really convinced me that the right way to understand this word Havel in Hebrew is vanity or smoke or vapor and not meaningless, right? Because we're supposed to rejoice in life. We're supposed to rejoice in the good days, but also know that there are days of darkness. And it's not that all that comes as vanity is is meaningless, rather. It's that all that comes is vaporous, it's unpredictable. It's it's It's temporary, it's passing. And so enjoy what you can enjoy while you enjoy it. And also remember that not every day is going to be enjoyable, right? Same thing. When you're young, verse 9, rejoice, right? Enjoy being young. But also know that God is watching. There's a sober check there at the end of verse 9. Walk in the ways of your heart and in the sight of your eyes, but know that for all these things God will bring you into judgment. So Enjoy your life, enjoy your youth, enjoy your health, enjoy your strength, right? Go on a hike, go camping, go enjoy time with your friends, go enjoy things, but don't Be sinful and wicked with the strength and youth that God's given you, because He'll bring it into judgment And so the last verse here is to say, there's no particular reason why you should seek out pain and vexation. Some people belong to uh what Dale Ralph Davis has called the lemon juice and vinegar Christianity where they feel like if they're not just miserable all the time, they're not really holy. And that's not what God calls us to. God doesn't call us to seek out misery. Misery will find us in this life. Life is full of misery. So remove vexation from your heart, put away pain from your body. Don't seek out misery. Enjoy life that God has given you. Give thanks for the life that God has given you. you and know but know that things are vaporous and pain will come and you need to trust God through those things as well. pray. Father in heaven, thank you for loving us, for giving us life in your son Jesus, for holding us close to you through every season of life. You are the Lord. You're the Lord of our good days as well as our hard days. Help us to be wise and diligent with the opportunities you give us in this life. Help us to enjoy the good days and to give thanks for them. And help us to accept That in this fallen world, until we're at home in the new heavens and the new earth, there will be days of pain and frustration. And that those things too, they come from your hand, and we can accept them as being good for us ultimately, even if they are not pleasant and even if they are not permanent. We thank you that those things are not permanent, and in the end the joy will remain when this life under the sun has passed. And we thank you for that because of Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 12, which has a wonderful picture of what it's like to get really old. and why it's important to remember the Creator in the days of your youth. Looking forward to that. Hope you can join me. Have a blessed day in the Lord.