Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad that you're with us again. It is day 861. We are in the 10th chapter of Ecclesiastes. This wonderful wisdom book that's so challenging and comforting as it helps give us perspective on life under the sun. Let's pray. Father in Heaven, we thank you for the life that you've given us in this world, but we do confess to you that it is at times perplexing. and full of evil and trials and difficulties, and that it's easy for us to lose perspective and get too caught up in the things that you give us in this life or the things that the world tells us to chase after. So we pray for your wisdom. We pray for your perspective. We pray for your faith and grace to help us stay grounded in following Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ecclesiastes chapter 10 Dead flies make the perfumer's ointment give off a stench. So a little folly outweighs wisdom and honor. A wise man's heart inclines him to the right, but a fool's heart to the left. Even when the fool walks on the road, he lacks sense. And he says to everyone that he is a fool. If the anger of the ruler rises against you, do not leave your place, for calmness will lay great offenses to rest. There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, as it were an error proceeding from the ruler. Folly is set in many high places, and the rich sit in a low place. I have seen slaves on horses and princes walking on the ground like slaves. He who digs a pit will fall into it, and the serpent will bite him who breaks through a wall He who quarries stones is hurt by them, and he who splits logs is endangered by them. If the iron is blunt, and one does not sharpen the edge, he must use more strength But wisdom helps one to succeed. If the serpent bites before it is charmed, there is no advantage to the charmer. The words of a wise man's mouth win him favor But the lips of a fool consume him. The beginning of his of the words of his mouth is foolishness, and the end of his talk is evil madness. A fool multiplies words though no man knows what is to be, and who can tell him what will be after him? The toil of a fool wearies him, for he does not know the way to the city. Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child, and your princes feast in the morning. Happy are you, O land. when your king is the son of the nobility, and your princes feast at the proper time for strength and not for drunkenness. Through sloth the roof sinks in, and through indolence the house leaks. Bread is made for laughter, and wine gladdens life, and money answers everything, even in your thoughts Do not curse the king, nor in your bedroom curse the rich, for a bird of the air will carry your voice, or some winged creature tell the matter. That's Ecclesiastes chapter 10, full of practical wisdom. And overall, one major theme of this chapter is that There's sort of a rightness to where things fit within God's creation, and we do well to observe that and to stick with that. To try to just put things out of place just to be different can lead to major consequences We open with this interesting image of dead flies making a perfumer's ointment give off a stent. Can you imagine they can get this great expensive perfumerous ointment like a reduction made from flowers and other sweet savory wonderful smelling things and then dead flies get in it So I say, oh no, thank you. No matter how good it was, when the dead flies are put in, it becomes disgusting. So a little folly outweighs wisdom and honor. It is so easy to be foolish in the impulse of the impulsive uh desire of a moment to say something foolish, to do something foolish. And you can undermine your reputation, you can undermine your place within the community, you can undermine a relationship that you have with someone. So we need to be careful. We need to be careful to walk according to wisdom. A wise man's heart inclines him to the right, and a fool's heart to the left. I could make a political joke here, but I won't. I'll refrain, because that's not really the meaning of the text. Obviously there's no no thought of our modern idea of right and left. in terms of politics in the Bible. It's way, way uh older than that. But what does it mean then? It's not talking about that. Well, the right hand is the strength and the blessing. And the left hand has this negative connotation of foolishness and of disfavor. So a wise man's heart inclines him to be favored by the king, to be well thought of, because he exercises wisdom, but a fool's heart will put him in disfavor or in dishonor with the ruler because His folly will become evident. This roll isn't at verse 3. Even when a fool walks on the road, he lacks sense and says to everyone that he is a fool. So A fool's folly is very evident, even when he's just walking down the road. Um now what do you do if the ruler is angry against you and you are wise? Well, if you're wise and the ruler gets angry with you, just stay calm. Keep your head, keep your place. And the calmness will cause the king to realize how misguided he was at at uh judging you. Uh a good application of this for us is that it's very easy when we get falsely accused to get hotly defensive of ourselves and to think, no, no, no, I'm gonna set this right. I'm gonna tell you what I really think And actually the more vigorously we engage in self defense and self justification in circumstances like that, the more people look at us and say, Well, what is really going on with this guy? 'Cause he's really animated about this. I I didn't think there was anything to this accusation, but the way he's getting all stirred up, uh, I don't know, right? It's better to just say, oh, come on, you know that's not who I am. And just leave it at that. Right? Stay calm, keep your head, keep your place, and people will see over time what kind of a person you are. What about verses five to seven? Well, exalting people to a high position of honor. who are not well suited to that position, who are not trained for that position, who are not prepared for that position, causes problems for everybody And it's an evil, it's a folly. And it proceeds from the ruler. The ruler says, Oh, here's a slave that I like the look of. Let's make him in charge of this whole endeavor. He wasn't trained for that. He's not well suited for it. Um so slaves on horses and princes walking on the ground like slaves is people not in the place that is best suited for them, but people out of place because it may be favoritism or family connection or whatever. And I think we've all seen that. I think we've all seen people who are promoted within their organization to be a leader, a boss, a manager, a supervisor, and they're just not well prepared for it. They just don't really know what they're doing And it causes harm to a lot of people. And so a lesson for us could be, look, if you're in your job or whatever, you're seeking advancement, just do the hard work. that would make you well suited to that promotion because if you do get the promotion, you want to be ready for it. You don't want to be grasping with ambition for something that's way over your head. He who digs a pit will fall into it. Serpent will bite him who breaks through a wall. He who quarries stone is hurt by him. He who splits log is in danger by them. The very things that we give ourselves to very diligently, very passionately, can be the cause of our harm. Right? Especially if we're not paying attention, if we're not uh mindful, if we don't keep things in perspective, right You can see this from people who get like really hooked on video games and they play them for hours and hours and hours and they neglect their family, or people who get really into a particular hobby. and they just pour themselves into it and they neglect their work, they neglect their studies, they neglect their family, whatever. This this is what can happen here. Instead, what you want to do is work smart, right? Verse 10 is telling us you don't work hard, you work smart. Make sure your iron tool is sharpened, and make sure the serpent is charmed. In other words, be wise about how you approach situations. Don't get in over your head. Don't give yourself over to something too much. Keep things in moderation and keep things with wisdom The words of a man's of a wise man's mouth win in favor, but the lips of a fool consume him. Jesus said, out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. And That's so often true, right? If you open your mouth and you speak, very often what comes out is what was inside of you already. And you can show that by the words of wisdom that you are a person who has thought things through and you know what you're talking about and you have a well-grounded understanding, or you can just be rambling on and on and on and not really have any idea what you're talking about. And people will see through that pretty quickly, right? Um A fool multiplies words, though no man knows what is to be. A foolish people, you see these talking heads on the cable news channels, or you might see them on hear them on podcasts or whatever, and they're they're talking about stuff that nobody can really know for sure, right? But there's a lot of money to be made in being a celebrity fortune tellers basically what they are. These talking heads, these economists, these experts who are going to say, Well this is the next big thing and this is when the recession's coming and this is what interest rates are going to do and this is what's going to happen in this political situation. Nobody knows. Like nobody really knows, but the person who's honest and humble and wise and who goes on and says, you know, we don't really know what's coming, but we need to trust God for it. Maybe like, oh come on, you're some sort of religious nut job and just discard them But we need to beware of the talking heads who fill up the time by using lots of extra words and who are trying to predict things that no one is really in control of Good leaders, good rulers, good government is a gift of God. Immature, inexperienced, ill-prepared, ill-tempered, foolish leadership government is a curse from God. And that's really what verses 16 and 17 are telling us. It talks about a child and princes who feast in the morning. You see, the idea is Why would why would the king be a child? Why would you make a child a king? That's happened so many times throughout history where people have actually arranged like They've killed off the king or they've gotten rid of the king and they've replaced that king with a child. Why would you want that? Well that's so that people who aren't the king can exercise the power of a king by manipulating and controlling things, and that's not good Prince is feasting in the morning, that means the people in power are in it for themselves, and they're just in it to have a good time, to get what they can get while they're getting as good. That's a judgment from God. That's a curse. That's not good. It's a woe, right? Woe is a judgment from God. Happy or blessed is a blessing from God. When there's propriety, when people are well prepared for the office, when when the princes feast at the proper time for strength and not for drunkenness, in other words, they're taking what they need in order to be better prepared to do the job well not just to be self-indulgent. Final thoughts here in verse in chapter ten, verses eighteen to twenty. are warning us against sloth and indolence. We'd see a lot of this in Proverbs. Ver verse nineteen is so interesting. Again, this is verse nineteen to me is the difference between how a proverb comes in Ecclesiastes versus the way it is sometimes in Proverbs, right? In Ecclesiastes you have a harsh realism to things. Bread is made for laughter, wine gladdens life, and money answers everything Now, is that like what we should be striving for? Should we be striving to have lots of money because it can answer everything? No. Just saying that's the way it is in this world, isn't it? Rich people kind of live by a different set of rules. If you have enough money, you can sort of take care of any problem in your life, right? That's not necessarily the way it should be, but it's the way that it is. And that's the difference between Proverbs and Ecclesiastes generally speaking, is Proverbs is telling us the way life should be, the way we ought to live, whereas Ecclesiastes is telling us, look, where the rubber meets the road, this is how the world actually works. And sometimes it's not pretty Even in your thoughts do not curse the king, nor in your bedroom curse the rich. For a bird of the air. You know that expression, a little bird he told me? That's where it comes from here, Ecclesiastes 10. 20. A little bird. will tell the matter. Oh some winged creature will tell the matter. You never know. You know, people who are who are gossips who are slanderers behind other people's back, they often think they're getting away with it. They often think, oh, no one's gonna know. You'd be surprised how many times the word gets back to the person of exactly what was said and exactly who said it. So we need to be careful. Not only is it wrong, right? Here's the thing. The ought to is it's wrong. You shouldn't gossip about You should treat people the way you'd want to be treated. You wouldn't want someone gossiping about you. You shouldn't gossip about them. That's the ought to, right? You ought not to gossip. But the reality of how it works in life is you better not gossip because the word's gonna get out and the person you're talking about is going to find out that you were talking about them and What you thought was the secret between you and one or two other people is not going to be kept that way for long. Right? A little bird will tell all. So here we have in Ecclesiastes. How do we benefit from this? How do we grow in this? Well, here's something that Jesus said, He said to the 72 when he sent him out, I'm sending you out as lambs among wolves. So be as wise as serpents and innocent as doves. This is how we should live in this world. We should live in this world realizing we are lambs of God, we are children of God, but we live in the midst of wolves. We live in a fallen and depraved world. We live in a world that doesn't work the way it ought to work, it works the way that it works. Does that mean we should just join them in the evil? We should just fling mud, get down into the mud, and get dirty like everybody else? No, we shouldn't. Because ultimately that way leads to disaster and it's wrong. It's both wrong and unprofitable. But we should be aware of it. We should know how the world works so that we can deliberately walk. Differently innocent as doves, but wisely wise as serpents. That's what Jesus did. Jesus was so good at avoiding traps because he knew what people were really thinking. He knew what the real agenda was, and so when a trick question came his way, he would turn it around and he would basically turn it back into a question back for them. He never sinned. He didn't join them in doing the wrong, but he walked with wisdom. We need to pray that God would give us the grace to walk in wisdom as ambassadors for Christ, as those who are as wise as serpents And innocent as of because of the reality of the world we live in. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your goodness. Thank you for your faithfulness unfailing. Thank you for Jesus, our Savior, who is so wise. So right. Help us to walk in his ways. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for Ecclesiastes 10. Tomorrow we are going to go back to the Gospel of John finally. Feels like it's been a while since we've been in John We're gonna pick up with John chapter eleven. Have a blessed day in the Lord.