Amen. And we just ask the Lord to show us Christ. And now we're going to turn to Isaiah 61. And the opening words of Isaiah 61 are the words of Christ. This is the passage that Jesus read in the synagogue at Nazareth when he was beginning his earthly ministry. And it tells We had four servant songs earlier in Isaiah culminating with 53. This is like a fifth servant song where the servant is singing of the work of the Spirit in his life. Isaiah 61, this is the word of God. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn, to grant to those who mourn in Zion, to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes. the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit, that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified They shall build up the ancient ruins. They shall raise up the former devastations. They shall repair the ruined cities. The devastations of many generations. Strangers shall stand and tend your flocks. Foreigners shall be your plowmen and vine dressers, but you shall be called the priests of the Lord. They shall speak of you as the ministers of our God. You shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their glory you shall boast. Instead of your shame there shall be a double portion. Instead of honor, they shall rejoice in their lot. Therefore, in their land they shall possess a double portion. They shall have everlasting joy For I, the Lord, love justice. I hate robbery and wrong. I will faithfully give them their recompense. And I will make an everlasting covenant with them. Their offspring shall be known among the nations and their descendants in the midst of the peoples, all who see them. Shall acknowledge them that they are an offspring of the Lord has blessed. I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall exult in my God, for He has clothed me. with the garments of salvation. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself like a priest with beautiful headdress. and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels. For as the earth brings forth its sprouts, and as a garden causes what is sown in it to sprout up, so the Lord God. Will cause righteousness and praise to sprout up before all the nations. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for this powerful word. We pray that you would bless us. With understanding of your word, with soft hearts that are prepared by your Spirit to receive your word, that your word might bring forth fruit in our lives, that we might respond with faith, obedience, love, zeal for you. Joy in you. As you shine your light in us and through us for the glory of Christ, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Isaiah really is a wonderful book in the Old Testament. We started this series on Isaiah. I say that many people have called it the fifth gospel. Isaiah is the second most quoted book in the New Testament after the Psalms, and it's quoted a lot by Jesus. And in the context of his earthly ministry, yesterday, uh Beth and I were having lunch with uh Jonathan and Emily Copenhaver. Some of you have been around for a while, we remember the Copenhaver. when they were here. They have two little girls now, Vivi, Vivian, who's almost three, and Esther, who's um about a year or so. And uh and it was just a wonderful time to get together with them, hadn't seen them for a while. And uh Jonathan and I were talking about the experience of reading through the Old Testament and how you're reading through the Old Testament and you're just desperate for Jesus to show up. It's like, these people need Jesus. These people, they really need Jesus. Wow, it's even worse. These people, they really need Jesus. And then you get to Isaiah and you start to see Jesus and it's like this ray of light in the Old Testament say, oh yes, he is coming, and this is what he's going to do. So last week we looked at Isaiah 60 and we saw that our calling is to shine the light of Christ We are to arise and shine because our light has come. We have Christ in us. We have the light of Christ to shine to the nations. And that's wonderful. And we know that it's the light of Christ. It's not our own light. And we know that we can't therefore shine with any sort of underhanded way or Either self-seeking way of trying to convince people of something so that we can be better off or telling people what they want to hear. You can't do that. You've got to shine the light of Christ. But how do we do that? How You can be given instructions about what you're supposed to do and not know how to do it. And then you can be given instructions and how to do something and still not know where you're supposed to get the power to do it. So, you know, if Today is our son Andrew's 21st birthday. And uh it's hard to believe we have a 21-year-old, but He is, you know, Beth is going to be doing a cake. She's already started that process. And there have been times, a few times, in the history of our kids' lives where I've made the birthday cake. And, you know, it's turned out pretty well. But I need instructions in how to do that. You know, I'm not one of these people who's like made enough cakes that I can just be like, oh, I'll make a cake. Let me just get the flour and the sugar and the eggs and I know what proportion I need instructions. Right? But then Beth had a problem with trying to make the cake this morning in that our oven was not turning on. That's what you want the morning. So we did we did get it turned on. But like you can have all the directions, you can follow all the steps, but if there's no heat, if there's no power. Right? There's no gas in the case of, I think it was something with the igniter in our oven because I got it to light with a you know a lighter. It's a gas oven. Uh didn't blow myself up. That's good. And so, but you don't have the power. So this is where where we are in Isaiah 60 is really we're coming to see Christ as the light of the world. How is it that he was able to shine and to fulfill the ministry that he was given as the Messiah? And then by extension, how is it that we are able? to shine with the light of Christ to our children and our children's children, because there's the generations mentioned here again, and to the nations. How do we do that? And the short, simple, clear answer is only by the power of the Holy Spirit. Only by the power of the Holy Spirit. We saw that this morning in Sunday school. By the way, another plug. If you are missing Sunday school, make the extra effort to get here at 9. 30 for Sunday school. Because it's always worth it, and it almost always has some direct connection to what's going on in the sermon. And so today we're talking about discipleship. And one of the things we saw is we looked at several passages in Paul about what it means to be a disciple, what it means to grow as a disciple, is it has to be by the power of the Spirit. It can't be in our own flesh. And that's what we see here. So, how do we shine the light of Christ to our offspring, our children, our children's children, and to the nations? We need the power of the Holy Spirit. As I said, the opening of Isaiah 61, this is the passage that Jesus read in the synagogue in Nazareth as he was beginning his early Earthly ministry. We read it in Luke 4. Jesus got up at the synagogue in Nazareth and he said, The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. To proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. Now that's as far as Jesus read those seven lines that are in our Bibles, verse one and the first line. The passage goes on to say, and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn, to grant those who mourn in Zion to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit, that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified And then it speaks of what we, those who are so blessed by Christ, will do. They shall build up the ancient ruins, they shall raise up the former devastations. They shall raise up, yeah, they shall repair the ruined cities and the devastations of previous generations. So Luke 4 gives us these first seven lines. And it really is a great summary of the mission of Christ in his earthly ministry, what he came to do, and the fact that he did so because of the power of the Holy Spirit. So at the beginning of Jesus' earthly ministry. The very first thing he did was he went to go and be baptized by John in the Jordan River. Why would he do that? Well, God showed us why. Remember, John was a priest. His father Zechariah was a priest. He was a priest. And he baptizes Jesus to fulfill all righteousness. But right after Jesus is baptized with water, the Holy Spirit descends. Like a dove out of heaven, and rests upon him, and the voice of God the Father from heaven speaks out and says, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. It was his anointing. He was anointed by the Holy Spirit at the baptism. He immediately was sent to be tried and tempted in the wilderness. And then he comes back, begins his ministry. And there are five things that he says he's going to do in these first, in these seven lines that begin Isaiah 61. First, bring good news to the poor. Second, bind up the brokenhearted. Third, proclaim liberty to the captives. Fourth, proclaim the opening of prison to those in bondage. And fifth, proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. Now the next two lines that are not recorded in Luke's Gospel, it's hard to know if Jesus would have actually read those, or if he stopped there on purpose, or if Luke stopped. But there's a reason why Luke stopped, I believe, and that is if you look at it, verses six and s or uh the sixth and seventh things, proclaim the day of God's vengeance and comfort those who mourn. Those Will not be fully realized until Jesus comes again. You know, those who mourn will be comforted. We are comforted in this life with the hope of the gospel, but we will be comforted in the reality of the resurrection when Jesus comes again. again. And the day of God's vengeance, while Jesus took the vengeance of God on himself, he brings the vengeance of God when he comes again. So let's look at these five things that he did during his earthly messianic ministry. Because really what he does is he then calls us to be his priests and his ministers, and he clothes us with these garments of righteousness and priesthood and and bridal garments so that we can go out and do the things that he did by the same power that he did it. So what did Jesus do? He did these five things. How did he do it? By the power of the Holy Spirit. What are we supposed to do? Do these five things. How are we supposed to do them? By the power of the Holy Spirit. So we're given the how of what to do, and we're given the power of what to do. So let's look at these five things again. Jesus brought good news to the poor That is to the afflicted and to the oppressed. He came to bind up the broken-hearted. That is to dress the wounds of our broken hearts. He came to proclaim liberty or freedom to those who were held captive. He came to proclaim the opening of the prison doors To those who are held in bondage, and to proclaim that the time of the Lord's favor had now come. Now, Jesus did not do these things in the way that people expected. And we are not to do them in the ways that the world expects. On a superficial level, it is really easy to look at a list like this. And take a physical, political, economic sort of approach to it And say, oh, we're going to empty all the prisons out, and we're going to set all those people free, and we're going to bring this sort of social justice to the world. But that is not The deepest need of humanity, and that is not the primary thing that Jesus came to do. It also confuses what he does at his first coming with what he does at his second coming, so that's another thing. But People's expectations often focus on the superficial, the physical, the political, the temporal. They did this with Jesus all the time. And they wanted a political messiah. They wanted someone who would overthrow Rome and who would lead Israel to geopolitical greatness. They wanted a worldly political dominance over their neighbors and their enemies. But that's not what Jesus came to do. And he didn't come to do that because such a thing, such a political messiah Leading an army, establishing political greatness, would only bring temporary, limited earthly relief and would not address the deepest needs that cause people to be afflicted, oppressed, brokenhearted, captive, imprisoned, and out of favor with God. Give me give you two examples that illustrate what I mean. First, one of the first miracles recorded in all three of the synoptic gospels is the healing of the paralyzed man. I'm sure you're familiar with the story, but just to remind you, Jesus was teaching and the house was so crowded full of people who were all in and around the house that these four guys brought their friend who was paralyzed lying on a mat They're carrying him and they can't get to Jesus. So what do they do? They go up on the roof, they tear a hole in the roof, and they lower the man on the mat down in front of Jesus. Here is someone who is obviously Physically afflicted with paralysis. And because of that, he cannot work, he cannot support himself, he can't get married, he can't have a family, can't have the normal kind of life that people have and that people want to have. So Jesus looks at him and sees his greatest need and says to him immediately, get up and walk. No. That's not what he did. He looked at the man, he saw his deepest need, and he said to him immediately. Son, your sins are forgiven. That was his real need And that's what Jesus spoke to first. It was only when the Pharisees who were gathered around said, Oh, who is this who forgives sins? Only God can forgive sins that he said, okay. Let me show you that I have the authority to forgive sins, because which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven, or rise, get up, and walk? But so that you will know that the Son of Man, that's me, has authority on earth to forgive sins, he says to the man, Rise, take up your bed, and walk. And the guy got up, took up his bed, and walked out of there And so often we read that story, and we think that the really impressive miracle that Jesus did was that this guy walked out of there. And yes, it was. But you know what? If that guy had gotten up and rolled up his bed and walked out of there, an unforgiven sinner He would die in due course and spend eternity separated from God. It would be a temporary, limited solution. Jesus did the greater work. The second thing is that all four Gospels record one miracle of Jesus, besides the resurrection. Bible trivia quiz time. Pay attention. Besides the resurrection, all four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, record one miracle of Jesus that's on all four of them. Anybody know what it is? The feeding of the 5,000. Probably the most public miracle that Jesus ever did. A crowd of thousands of people witnessed it. But it's John in his recording in John 6. Who gives us a little bit more explanation of what happens after Jesus feeds a 5,000 and then what Jesus says about that to explain to us the significance of it? Jesus fed the 5,000, and then he goes back across to the other side of the lake and he goes to Capernaum and he goes to the synagogue in Capernaum And then the people find him, because they were looking for him. And John tells us why they were looking for him and why they were glad when they found him. They wanted him to keep feeding them. They said, here's a guy who can guarantee that we'll never starve again. We don't understand this desperation because we live really comfortable, complacent lives, like we throw out food because it goes bad. That's not the experience of these people when Jesus taught them to pray, give us this day our daily bread. They were working hard in order to just have enough to be able to feed their families for another day. And so for them to come to Jesus and say, Oh Give us bread. Even when he starts talking about the bread of life, he's like they're saying, oh, give us this bread always. In other words, they don't ever want to have to work hard for daily bread. But Jesus doesn't feed them again. Instead, he tells them about himself as the bread of life. And he tells them about his body and his blood, which we're going to partake of here later. He says, that's what you need. What you need is my body and my blood, so that you can have real life in you. What you need Is what I'm going to give to you when I give up my body for the life of the world. And if you think about it, physical healings. Feeding of the five thousand, even raising the dead temporarily where they come back to life and they die later, giving sight to the blind, casting out demons, all of these miracles were relatively easy for Jesus to do. Spoke a word and it happened. But the forgiveness of our sins, the cleansing of our souls, the giving of eternal life, took everything he had. All of it. He had to pour out his life unto death. He had to drink the cup of God's wrath. He had to be dead and buried in the tomb and then rise again from the dead to give us that That's the one that he agonized over. That's the one that cost him everything. Because that's what we most need So yes, there's healing, and yes, there's feeding, and yes, there's casting out of demons as a way of demonstrating the authority of Jesus as God's Messiah. But but the greatest work That required the greatest sacrifice was to bring us into the kingdom of God, give us forgiveness of sins, give us victory over sin and death forever. And when Jesus does that for us, a wonderful thing happens. And we're told about in verses 3 and 4. A wonderful thing happens. It's when Jesus does that for us. When the Holy Spirit, the same Holy Spirit who empowered Jesus for his earthly ministry, he takes the benefits and the blessings of Jesus' death and resurrection and applies it to us. The Holy Spirit's the one who applies The work of Christ to us by giving us faith, uniting us to Christ, and letting us share in his benefits and blessings. And the language here is that we're given this beautiful headdress instead of ashes. The oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit, that we may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified. It's a beautiful picture that we're given new garments We're dressed in Christ's righteousness. We're dressed as a priest and as a bride. Because we're made priests of God, but we're also made the bride of Christ. Those were the most extravagant kinds of garments that there were in the ancient world. Priestly garments were very special, very costly, very dear, and only certain people got them, only the ones who were anointed. But we get the oil of gladness and and the garments of praise. And then a bride, of course With the beautiful headdress. And then the image shifts to being oaks of righteousness. There's strength. There's a deep-rootedness. There's life. That's what we are given. Who's given that? Look at the first line of verse 3. Who is given that? Everybody who is an Israelite or a Jewish person, or anybody who calls themselves a Christian or shows up to church. Who is given that? To grant those who mourn in Zion It's interesting, about the same time that Isaiah is prophesying, there's another prophet. We call him a minor prophet because his book is shorter, not because he's less important. But Amos, the prophet Amos, and Amos condemns those who are at ease in Zion. So we take the message that Amos was preaching at this time, and this message that Isaiah is preaching at this time, and you find out there's two different categories of people who are in Zion. And Zion represents the people of God, the city of God. There's two different kinds of people, those who are at ease and those who are mourning. And it's those who are mourning who are comforted and clothed. And those who are at ease are condemned. See, complacency, half-heartedness, is one of the things, again, we learned in Sunday school. Jesus said, Whoever wants to come after me, let him take up his recliner and remote. And kick back and relax, because I did all the work to save you. Take up a cross and follow me We have to lay down our lives. We have to do what Jesus did by the same Holy Spirit. We do the same thing Jesus did. Now we are a living sacrifice, Romans 12. 1 tells us. But by the same Holy Spirit we do the same thing, which is to say, my comfort, my conveniences, my selfish desires, my priorities, what I want for my life, I'm going to lay that down at the feet of Jesus. I'm going to follow him. And he can give me what he has for me. And I'll receive it with thanksgiving, because it's better than what I would have held on to for myself. Jesus in his Beatitudes he says, Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. It's a particular kind of mourning. It's a mourning over our sin. It's a mourning over the state of the world that's in rebellion against God. And Jesus comes to us with comfort and with clothing. And with life, gladness, praise, strength. That comes from being loved and belonging to God. So we come to God and we're broken about our sin. We we realize God is holy and God is love. God is holy and God is love. And I am not. I am selfish, I am sinful, I am crooked and wayward. And if we come to God honest about that and mourning over that, God says to us, I forgive you. All your sins are forgiven. You're cleansed. You're clothed in beautiful garments of righteousness and priestliness and brideliness. Is that a word? Whatever. You are you are listen forgiven, cleansed, loved, blessed. Because you see your own sin. The harder we try to like pretend that we have it all together, pretend, wait a minute, I'm really a good person. See? I'm wearing a suit coat. Isn't it nice? I've got my time. There's a danger that we become complacent. We could become at ease in Zion and think I'm a good person. And then we're not mourning. So to those who mourn in Zion over our sin and over the world, God blesses us. He makes us then rebuilders. Verse 4. We build up the ancient ruins. We raise up the former devastations, repair the ruined cities. Now this is this is another something we need to see how deep and profound this is. Just like you can read the opening lines in a very superficial way and think it's talking about political social stuff, which it's not. This is also not talking about that. When we hear about building up the ruins, raising up the former devastations, repairing the ruined cities, sometimes we can think, oh, we're going to recover you know, the cultural greatness that we used to have 50 or 60 years ago. No. It goes much, much deeper than that. At the heart of the ruin and devastation in our world is our rejection of God, our alienation from God and from his creational purposes. For us. So the only real and lasting restoration comes from being reconciled with Him. And we are a part of this because, verse 6. The heart of the passage gives us how it is that we can be part of this. How can we rebuild ruins? How can we rebuild devastation that sin brings in the world? Because, verse 6 tells us You shall be called priests of the Lord. They shall speak of you as the ministers of our God. Do you know you're a priest? If you're a Christian? He's talking about you. You are a priest. Do you know that you're a minister? The shorthand cultural way is to talk about me as being the minister of this church. Well, who's the minister of Forest Hill? Well, that's Pastor Jason. I may be the pastor, a pastor. here with the other elders who all serve as pastors of the church. But you're all ministers. We're all ministers and we're all priests. What does that mean? Well, to be a priest is to be an intercessor, and to be a minister is to be a servant. And the same Holy Spirit who anointed Jesus at his baptism unites us to Jesus by faith and makes us these. He makes us intercessors. We can pray for the salvation of our lost loved ones, and God hears those prayers. We can speak the Word of God to our lost loved ones, and that comes with authority from God because we are. Priests. And we're ministers. We serve. You come and you worship. You are in the presence of God. You see, in the old temple system Only the priests could come into the holy place and only certain priests on certain days a very tight schedule, very, very limited access to who could come in and burn the incense and you know put out the showbread and all that kind of stuff that was going on at the in the sanctuary. Everybody else was in the courtyard. Now there were levels of courtyard, but they were all courtyards. And one thing you know about the courtyard is the courtyard is not in the place There's in the place and then there's in the courtyard, and those are very different things. But the veil in the temple tore in two when Jesus died, because now the access is granted to everyone who is in Christ. We are in Christ, which means we are in the Holy of Holies. We have access to the very throne of God. We can intercede, we can worship, we can serve. As spirit-anointed priests and ministers, listen, as spirit-anointed priests and ministers, we are empowered to bring life to a dead and dying world. Truth to a world of lies, hope to a world of despair, forgiveness and love to a world of vengeance and hate. And we only do so when we are serving with the power of the Holy Spirit in the priesthood and the ministry that God has given us. Not when we're spouting off about our opinions. Just when we are ministering the gospel. Now, does that have practical implications? Absolutely, that has practical implications. Did Jesus heal sick people? Really? Yes, he did. Did he feed hungry people? Yes, he did. Did he welcome outcast people? Yes, he did. And so there are practical things that that works itself out in as well. And if you study history, you'll know that biblical Christianity has been a profoundly positive influence in the world. Hospitals, orphanages, schools for poor children, the abolition of slavery twice. The development of just war theory that would limit the reasons why a nation could go to war and how they could conduct themselves in war so that it was in keeping with standards of justice and righteousness. Universal human rights. All of these things were brought into the world by Christians who were advocating for a biblical view of the world That says you care for the sick, you educate even poor children, you give those who don't have parents a home. You feed those who are hungry You don't just go to war for any old reason. You only do so when justice demands it. Everybody has rights, not just rich male landowners. All of these things they come from Christianity into the world, but they flow from the gospel. They are not a substitution of the gospel. They come with this is what God has done, this is what Jesus has done, this is who he is. And because he is all this, and because he's done all this, we then should care for the poor and the sick and the fatherless and the enslaved. A beautiful picture of this last night at the concert we went to see Andrew Peterson in concert, his resurrection letters tour, his Easter concerts, beautiful, wonderful. Um and but right in the middle in the intermission, they they were um doing an appeal for support for it the International Justice Mission. IGM is the largest organization in the world that is fighting human trafficking and human slavery. And it's a Christian organization. And they're fighting human slavery and human trafficking in the world because they believe that Christ has called them to not only take the gospel to the world, but also the demonstration of that gospel in free Those who are held in slavery. It's a great picture of that. As we celebrated the death and resurrection of Christ, as we celebrated his atoning death and his glorious, victorious resurrection, to be called and to say, let's take this into the world. by caring about those who are enslaved. And one of the things IJM does, they not only set people free from slavery, but they then connect them to help, which often comes through the local church, bringing them into a community and showing them the love of Jesus. So God then Through us, he promises to do some great things. He uses us. He makes this everlasting covenant with us that he speaks of in verse 9. Or eight, I'll faithfully give them their recompense. I will make an everlasting covenant with them. Their offspring shall be known among the nations. and their descendants in the midst of the peoples of this whole section on this everlasting covenant from generation to generation. We're not going to have time to get into it in detail. Just know this. We saw this a couple of weeks ago in Isaiah 59. As for me, this is my covenant with them. My spirit that is upon you, my words that I put in my mouth shall not depart from your mouth, or from out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring, says the Lord, from this time forth and from It's the same covenant, everlasting covenant. We see the same covenant given in Jeremiah. It's called the New Covenant in Jeremiah, but it's an everlasting covenant that God says In Jeremiah 32, I'll give them one heart and one way that they may fear me forever, for their own good and the good of their children after them. I will make an everlasting covenant that I will not turn away from doing good to them. And I will put the fear of me in their hearts that they may not turn from me. This everlasting covenant is described in Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel. It's called the New Covenant, it's called the Everlasting Covenant. It has some features, and that is we're forgiven of our sins. We're given a new heart that we know the Lord, and it's a promise that's made everlastingly with our children and our children's children throughout our generations, and is to be taken to the nations. And that really is the focus. So as we're doing these things of saying we're going to preach the gospel, we're going to do good to those who are poor and oppressed, while we preach the gospel. The focus is that we do that for our children and our children's children and to the nations. So there is a a generational aspect to it, to you and your offspring, and then there's a global aspect to it to the nations. Peter had this in mind at Pentecost when he got up and said, For the promise is to you And to your children, and for all who are far off, that's those in the nations, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. It's generational and it's global. And we see this work out in the book of Acts, which is kind of our a little bit of a blueprint for how this works. There's always a desire to take the gospel to new people groups, to new areas that don't yet know. But then when the gospel's brought and people are brought in, we see households baptized, Cornelius' household, Lydia's household, the Philippian jailer's household, Crispus's household. Stephanus' household, and parents being told, bring your children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, because it's a generational promise and it's a global promise. So when we think about our calling, what should we be doing? In the power of the Holy Spirit, not in our own flesh. We should be proclaiming the gospel, which is the real freedom and the real deliverance that we need from our greatest problem, which is sin. We should be proclaiming that to our children and our children's children, and taking it to our neighbors and the nations. How do we do this? We do this by using the means that God has given us. We do this with joy. We walk in the Spirit. Again, we had this this morning in Sunday school. We walk in the Spirit and not in the flesh. That means we We meditate on, we read, we pray the Word of God. We gather in worship with God's people. We partake of the Lord's Supper, which is a means of grace that God used to strengthen us. We spur one another on toward love and good deeds. There is a communal aspect of this where we need the church. We need one another in the church. And as we do so, we realize that it is a privilege because we are being called to participate in the work that God is doing. And we're trusting that he will in fact keep his promise to bring that work about in his purposes. So the end of this ends with joy. It's a great symmetry to this passage. I wanted to show you this real quick as we close. Notice the opening two verses. Jesus is speaking The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. But in the last two verses, we're the ones who are speaking. I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall exalt in my God, for He has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He's covered me with the robes of righteousness. As a bridegroom decks himself like a priest with a beautiful headdress, as a bride adorns herself with jewels So we get to share in this, and it's a joyful thing. Four, final verse: as the earth brings forth its sprouts. And as a garden causes what is sown in it to sprout up, so the Lord God will cause righteousness and praise to sprout up before all the nations. It is sowing work we're called to do. And the Lord brings the growth. Over the winter, everything looks dead. Right? At this time time of year, things that were lying dormant, things that were appeared to be just gone, pop up And some of them trumpet the coming of spring. I love daffodils. First of all, they always show up just in time for my birthday, which I think is cool. But then I just love that they're one of they're one of the first flowers to really pop up nice and strong, and then they just trumpet out the arrival of spring with bright yellow and and the forsythia come and Those are nice, whatever they are Anyway, it's it's not it's not a coincidence that God has gifted us with the privilege of of having this springtime and Easter time at the same time of year. Um but anyway, we're we're doing the sewing work And so as we sow, we always sow in joy. We plant the seeds in the lives of our children, the lives of our grandchildren. We plant the seeds in foreign nations. You know, Jacob and Jason, uh Jacob and Pei Jason. They welcome these international students and they're sowing seeds. And a lot of them just come and they're there for a year and they go and they've been to some events and they've heard the gospel some and they've had some seeds sown and they don't know what's gonna happen with that. We're sowing seeds, we're sowing seeds. seeds, but we do so enjoy, not because we think that we are the ones responsible for bringing the growth, but because we trust verse 11. That God will cause righteousness and praise to sprout up before all the nations. God will be faithful The seed that we sow will accomplish the purpose that He has for it. So That's the privilege. That's the calling. Will we answer? To rejoice and exult and sow seed in the lives of our children and grandchildren, the lives of the nations. With gratefulness that we've been called to this privilege and with hope that the Lord will do what He's called us to do. Pray. Father, thank you for your precious promises that are yes in Christ. Thank you that we have the greatest purpose for living and the greatest power for living. We've been given the purpose of bringing the words of life into a dead and dying world. And we've been given the power of the Holy Spirit to make those words effective. There is no other purpose and there is no other power that we should give ourselves to wholeheartedly. So may we do so, Father. In Jesus' name. Amen.