Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 654 And we are in Esther chapter two as we continue with this very unusual and yet powerful Old Testament book. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Every part of your word is living and acting. Sharper than any two-edged sword, breathed out by you and given for our good and for your glory. So teach us today from Esther 2. Write the truth of this word on our hearts, shape our minds to think your truth after you, and let us see Jesus and draw closer to Him for the time we spend in your word together this morning. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Esther chapter two. After these things, when the anger of King Ahasuerus had abated He remembered Vashti and what she had done, and what had been decreed against her. Then the king's young men, who attended him, said, Let beautiful young virgins be sought out for the king and let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, to gather all the beautiful young virgins to the harem in Susa the citadel, under custody of Heggai the king's eunuch, who is in charge of the women. Let their cosmetics be given them, and let the young women let the young woman who pleases the king be queen instead of Vashtai This pleased the king, and he did so. Now there was a Jew in Susa the citadel, whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jaer, the son of Shimei, son of Kish a Benjaminite, who had been carried away from Jerusalem, among the captives carried away with Jehaniah, King of Judah. whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had carried away. He was bringing up Hadassah, that is Esther, the daughter of his uncle, for she had neither father nor mother The young woman had a beautiful figure and was lovely to look at, and when her father and her mother died, Mordecai took her as his own daughter. So when the king's order and his edict were proclaimed, and when many young women were gathered in Susa the citadel in custody of Hegai, Esther also was taken into the king's palace and put in custody of Haggai, who had charge of the women. And the young woman pleased him and won his favor, and he quickly provided her with cosmetics and her portion of food, and with seven chosen young women from the king's palace, and advanced her and her young women to the best place in the harem. Esther had not made known her people or kindred, for Mordecai had commanded her not to make it known. And every day Mordecai walked in front of the court of the harem to learn how Esther was and what was happening to her. Now when the turn came for each young woman to go into King Ahasuerus after being twelve months under the regulations for the women, since this was the regular period of their beautifying. six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with spices and ointments for women, when the young woman went into the king in this way. She was given whatever she desired to take with her from the harem to the king's palace. In the evening she would go in, and in the morning she would return to the second harem. in custody of Shashkaz, the king's eunuch, who was in charge of the concubines. She would not go into the king again, unless the king delighted in her, and she was summoned by name When the turn came for Esther, the daughter of Abbael, the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her as his own daughter. to go in to the king. She asked for nothing, except what Heggai, the king's eunuch, who had charge of the women, advised. Now Esther was winning favour in the eyes of all who saw her. And when Esther was taken to King Ahasuerus into his royal palace in the tenth month, month, which is the month of Tebeth in the seventh year of his reign, the king loved Esther more than all the women, and she won grace and favor in his sight more than all the virgins so that he set the royal crown on her head, and made her queen instead of Vashtai. Then the king gave a great feast for all his officials and servants, and It was Esther's feast. He also granted a remission of taxes to the provinces and gave gifts with royal generosity. Now, when the virgins were gathered together the second time, Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate. Esther had not made known her kindred or her people, as Mordecai had commanded her, for Esther obeyed Mordecai just as when she was brought up by him. In those days, as Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate, Bigthan and Teresh, two of the king's eunuchs, who guarded the threshold, became angry and sought to lay hands on King Ahasuerus. And this came to the knowledge of Mordecai, and he told it to Queen Esther, and Esther told the king in the name of Mordecai. When the affair was investigated and found to be so, the men were both hanged on the gallows, and it was recorded in the book of the Chronicles in the presence of the king That is Esther chapter 2. So we see a lot of plot thickening as things unfold in this pivotal chapter. King Ahasuerus is without a queen. Oh, he has a harem. He has women, right? But he has no queen among his women. And no one who wears the royal crown and will sit at his side and will be queen over the kingdom. Remember, the plan was to replace Vashdai. with the most beautiful woman in all the land, whoever would please the king the most. So now there's this great royal beauty contest. And Esther is put forward by her uncle, Mordecai, who has taken custody of her after the death of her father And he puts her forward because she's beautiful. There's an interesting spiritual lesson here in that King Ahasuaris was looking For someone who was beautiful, beautiful enough to be his bride and his queen. Contrasted to that, King Jesus looks for the unlovely. The cast out, the unwanted, the low and despised ones in the world, according to 1 Corinthians 1, and he makes us beautiful by choosing us to be his own. Ahassiueris wanted to choose someone who was already beautiful, and that would be the basis. The beauty would be the basis of his choice. But it's Jesus' choice of us. that is the basis of any beauty that we're given, which is the beauty of holiness that's given to us in Christ. So there's a contrast we see between Ahasuerus and Jesus. A Hasiueris chooses what he regards as beautiful. Jesus makes beautiful those whom he chooses as his own. We have no beauty. Beauty in and of ourselves. But Esther has great beauty. And Esther is also smart. She realizes the best way to advance. She wins the favor of Hegi Hagi is the eunuch who's in charge of these women. And so Esther wins his favor. The young woman pleased him and won his favor, verse 9. And he quickly provided her cosmetics and her portion of food, and with seven chosen young women from the king's palace, and advanced her and her young women to the best place in the harem. Now, reading between the lines a little bit, and given the context, Queen Vashti had been very beautiful, and she was very aware of how beautiful she was. And she had been rather proud, rather haughty, because she refused to obey the king's command to come before the king. Now the king was wrong-headed in what he was trying to do. to do there, but she was she was clearly kind of full of herself, we might say, right, to use a modern uh slogan. So she was kind of full of herself. And she thought she was all that, right? Esther wins the favor of Haggai. How? We don't know. But I imagine that in addition to being beautiful, she was probably humble and gentle And kind, because they were looking for someone who wasn't going to be like Vashtai. They wanted someone as beautiful as Vashtai, but not arrogant, not in love with herself, not proud, not haughty. And so I believe it's Esther's character of humility, of gentleness, of kindness, in winning the favor of Hegel. guy that gets her promoted. And she it says that uh she um Let me see where I where is this. Um Um yeah, Esther was, sorry, I couldn't find my spot. Verse 15. Esther was winning favor in the eyes of all who saw her. So she not only won the favor of Heggai, but she also won the favor of all who saw her. And that means she's impressively beautiful. Heggai has given her the best of the cosmetics, the best of the things to make her look as appealing as she possibly can. But she also must have had a demeanor, a decorum, a an air about her, a character that was compelling. Because she won favor in everybody's eyes. Generally, if you're just the most beautiful, other people would probably look down on you and maybe be jealous of you or maybe, you know, talk about you. But she must have been she must have been uh And so she gets a turn. Verse 16. She gets a turn to go into King Ahasiwaris in his role. And the king loved Esther more than all the women, and she won grace and favor in his sight more than all the virgins. So he set the royal crown on her head and made her queen instead of So here is the crowning moment. She won. She won the beauty contest. She is the queen. A great feast is held for all the officials and servants, and it is Esther's feast. It's wonderful, right? Now we're gonna see though that Mordecai and Esther, Mordecai we already know is kind of clever. Esther we know is very beautiful and seems to have a very upstanding character. But now we're going to see that Mordecai is very clever and very wise. He is paying attention. He's at the king's gate. He you know, Esther hasn't made known that she's a Jewish girl and that she's from the Jewish people, but Mordecai's hanging around and he's listening And when he's hanging around, he's listening at the king's gate, he hears two of the king's eunuchs become angry. Angry enough that they're going to lay hands on King Ahasuaris. They're going to kill him. And Mordecai knows enough to act quickly to save the life of the king. He tells Queen Esther, Queen Esther tells it to the king in the name of Mordecai. It's found out to be true, and the men are hanged on the gallows. Now this becomes a very important point in the story later. But Mordecai is protecting the king. He's using his cleverness and his wisdom for the good. of the king. We have an even better king than King Ahasuerus. So how much more should we be using our gifts and our abilities and our opportunities for the good of our king, for the honor of his name? for the advancement of his kingdom, for the proclamation of his gospel, if we have an even better king than Ahasiuerus. So again we see the contrast between Ahasiuerus and Jesus Jesus, the greater King. And if Esther was trying hard to win the favor of Ahasuerus and Mordecai was working hard to protect King Ahasuarus, how much more should we be thankful That the favor of King Jesus has been bestowed on us, even though we are not beautiful in and of ourselves, how much more should we want to honor the King? But ultimately what's going to be unfolding here, as you can see, the title of chapter three, which we'll get to in a couple of days, Haman plots against the Jews. Jews. God is behind the scenes. He's orchestrating all this. It's not just Esther's beauty and Mordecai's cleverness, but it's the sovereign hand of God, the hand of providence, the hand of God's rule putting beautiful Esther. And clever Mordecai into their place for the preservation of his people because God always works. God always works for the glory of his own name. and for the good of his people. Let's pray. Father, thank you for what you did through Esther. Thank you for what you do through us in the world today. Help us to love you because you have loved us first Help us to walk in the beauty that you have given to us, in the character that we have been given in Christ. Help us to use the gifts and abilities and opportunities that we have to glorify your name, to advance your kingdom. to proclaim your gospel to be of service for your glory and for the good of your people. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for Esther chapter two. Tomorrow we're going to hop back to the Gospel of Luke. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.