Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 653 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. And we are in a new book, Esther. We had Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther. Esther does follow chronologically after Ezra and Nehemiah, but a similar background to them. in that we are in the days of the Persian Empire and uh Ahasuerus, Ahasuarus who ruled from India to Ethiopia. Over 127 provinces. So he is the most powerful ruler that the world had ever known up until that point, uh, one of the most powerful rulers in all of human history. That's the background for this book. So we we saw with Ezra and Nehemiah what was happening under the Persian Empire in Jerusalem and Judea, but now we have one of God's people placed within the highest ranks of power in the Persian capital itself. So let's Heavenly Father, thank you for this book of Esther that we can begin studying together today. We pray that you would write its truth on our hearts and help us to follow after you through what we learn here. We pray this In Jesus' name. Amen. Esther chapter one. Now excuse me, in the days of Ahasuerus The Ahasuares who reigned from India to Ethiopia over one hundred twenty seven provinces, in those days, when King Ahasuaris sat on his royal throne in Susa, the citadel, in the third year of his reign, He gave a feast for all his officials and servants, the army of Persia and Media, and the nobles and governors of the provinces were before him, while he showed the riches of his royal glory and the splendor and pomp of his greatness for many days. One hundred and eighty days. And when these days were completed, the king gave for all the people present in Susa the citadel, both great and small, a feast lasting for seven days. In the court of the garden of the king's palace. There were white cotton curtains and violet hangings. fastened with cords of fine linen, and purple to silver rods and marble pillars, and also couches of gold and silver on a mosaic pavement of porphyry, marble, mother of pearl, and precious stones. drinks were served in golden vessels, vessels of different kinds, and the royal wine was lavished according to the bounty of the king, and drinking was according to this edict there is no compulsion for the king had given orders to all the staff of his palace to do as each man desired. Queen Vashti also gave a feast for the women in the palace that belonged to King Ahasuerus. On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine He commanded Mahuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bhiktha, and Abhaghtha. Zithar and Carcus, the seven eunuchs who served in the presence of King Ahasuaris, to bring Queen Vashtai before the king with her royal crown in order to show the people and the princes her beauty, for she was lovely to look at. But Queen Vashti refused to come at the king's command, delivered by the eunuchs. At this, the king Became enraged, and his anger burned within him. Then the king said to the wise men who knew the times, for this was the king's procedure toward all who were versed in law and judgment, the men next to him being Karshina, Shehthar, Admatha, Tarshish, Mares, Marcena, and Mechuman, the seven princes of Persia and Media, who saw the king's face and sat first in the kingdom, according to the law. What is to be done to Queen Vashtai, because she has not performed the command of King Ahasuerus delivered by the eunuchs. Then Mechum Memukan said in the presence of the king to the officials, not only against the king has Queen Vashtai done wrong, but also against all the officials and all the peoples who are in all the provinces of King Ahasuaris. For the queen's behavior will be made known to all women. causing them to look at their husbands with contempt, since they will say, King Ahasuaris commanded Queen Vashtai to come in before him, and she did not come. This very day, the noble women of Persia and media who have heard of the Queen's behavior will say the same to all the king's officials. and there will be contempt and wrath in plenty. If it please the king, let a royal order go out from him and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes, so that it may not be repealed, that Vashtai is never again to come before King Ahasuerus and let the king give her royal position to another who is better than she. So when the decree, made by the king, is proclaimed throughout all his kingdom, for it is vast All women will give honor to their husbands, high and low alike. This advice pleased the king and the princes, and the king did as Memukan proposed He sent letters to all the royal provinces, to every province in its own script, and to every people in its own language, that every man be master in his own house, and speak according to the language of his people That is Esther chapter 1, which is the introductory section that sets the stage for the unfolding drama of the book of Esther. Esther is an interesting and unique book. The name of God is never directly mentioned in the book of Esther. God is nowhere directly present. We never get a thus says the Lord. We never get and God heard and God did and God called and God said. We don't even get anyone really directly praying to God. Throughout this book. And yet, God is shown to be the providential master over human history at the highest and the lowest levels in the greatest sweep of history and in the the finest details. The providence of God is unmistakable even as the name of God, the explicit mention of God is That is incredibly encouraging to us because when we live our lives in our day-to-day world, in this time and place, we don't see God We don't hear directly from God. We hear of God from other believers. We can read of God in His Word. But as we live our lives, we don't see God acting Like we don't see a big hand stretch down from heaven and move things around, right? We don't hear the voice of God saying, turn left at the next intersection. If you think that's the voice of God, it's just Google Maps, so you want to just, you know Make sure you get those straight in your head. But we don't see that, right? And so we can sometimes be lulled into a secularized way of thinking of like, well, God doesn't really have anything to do with do with my life. God might make me feel better about myself. God might secure my eternal destiny. But when it comes to the practical day-to-day realities, God is a million miles away. But no, even though God is not explicitly seen in Esther, he is unmistakably present and working out his holy will for his people. We'll see how that plot unfolds in the coming chapters. One of the things that's interesting to note here in Esther Chapter 1. is that we're seeing sort of the battle of the sexes from, you know, 2500 years ago. Uh you have this tension between men and women. Um and King Ahasuaris and Queen Vashti are the sort of the two emblematic representatives of this. And God when he cursed Adam and Eve after the fall, back in Genesis chapter 3. he pronounced on them uh this curse, particularly on Eve, a curse was pronounced, that her desires would be contrary to those of her husband and that her husband would rule over her in a harsh way. That's one of the curses in Genesis 3. Your desire will be against your husband, and your husband will rule over you. And we see that kind of playing itself out. King Ahasuaris wants to parade his wife so that everyone can see how beautiful she is and thus how wealthy he is. Like like he's been showing off his trophies, right? For 180 days. He's been showing off the riches of his royal glory and splendor and the pomp of his greatness for half a year Imagine a six-month display of all the great things. Here's this gold thing, and here's this silver thing, and here's this ivory thing. and here's this marble thing, and here's this great statue, and here's this wonderful painting, and here's these weapons we captured in this battle, and on and on for six months. And then at the end of that, a seven-day feast To say, I'll show you how wealthy I am. I'm going to feed everybody in the Capitol. Everybody in the Capitol. Small and great. Everybody. Come on into the court of the Garden of the King's Palace, and I'm going to feed everybody. And boy, is it a well-decorated room, right? These white cotton curtains and violet hangings with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rods and marble pillars, like all this foreignateness. And Well he's doing this for the men, Queen Vashti is giving uh a a feast for the women. But then the crowning moment, at the end of it all, he's decided what's the most beautiful and wonderful and prized possession I have. But my wife the Queen. Let's bring in Queen Vashti. The Queen Vashti is like, I'm not one of your possessions. You don't own me, right? So she's refusing to come. She's like, I am the queen. I am not a trophy of war. I am not a a a trophy or a a possession of the king. I'm the queen. Her will opposed her husband's will. Her desire was against her husband's desire. She didn't want to be displayed And she refused. And so the king would exercise his rule over her harshly. She's banished, essentially. She's completely shut out from the presence of the king forever, which means she's she's really out. Because to be a woman on your own Banished like that would be absolutely devastating. She would have nowhere to go. She would turn from the queen of the kingdom giving a feast for all the women in her palace. to being a beggar on the street with nothing to fall back on. So this is quite a severe uh Battle of the sexes, right? And it's not only about the king and the queen, but it's very clear that the reason why the king responded in this way as he was um provoked to do so by uh one of his by by his leading advisor is that we have to send a message, right? Memu can Uh the king's advisor, one of the princes of Persia, says, We have to send a message because if you let this stand, all women everywhere are going to follow the Queen's behavior. and start being insolent toward their husbands. We've got to put those women back in their place. Again, this is sexist behavior. It's a distortion of the relationship between men and women. It comes about as a result of the curse of the fall. This is not defensible, like this is not defensible at all, right? But this is the reality. This is an important backstory for a number of different reasons. One is We're seeing part of the unfolding reality of the curse. And this curse is going to be reversed by Jesus because when Jesus comes, Right? He treats women with respect, with dignity. He blesses them. He raises their sons from the dead so that they won't be alone. He heals them. He casts out demons from them. He has women who sit at his feet and learn from him. Mary, which was never done. Rabbis would not have women sitting at their feet learning from them. And that was for men only. Women were named among his closest followers. Women hosted him and the disciples in their home. And so Jesus comes and he reverses this curse and he restores the dignity and the So that's one of the reasons why this is here. So we can see the contrast between what a king Ahasuerus is and what a king Jesus is. But another reason why this is here is so that we can see how powerful King Ahasuerus is. Because later when Esther ends up in her position, It is notable for us to remember just how powerful this man is and how vast his empire is. He is the most powerful ruler on earth. And yet And yet, Esther is not to act in the fear of man. She is to remember that there is one who is in control of everything. who reigns supreme over King Ahasuerus. And then the third thing is just the immediate background that, you know, Esther's going to end up in this queen role, taking Queen Vashtai's place. But you know, things didn't end so well for the last queen, so it's gonna put her on edge, like I better not overstep my bounds, I better not step out of line. Queen Vashti was well loved and well ex respected and so beautiful. I better not step out of line. So we see the contrast between King Ahasuaris and King Jesus. We see the king who is above King Ahasuares in power, uh and then we see the tension of The situation that Esther is entering into. We'll see these themes continue and unfold as we continue in the book of Esther. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you are the Lord, and we can trust in you. Boy, we see news headlines that trouble us. Developments in the world. We have events in our own lives that trouble us. Things that hit us unexpected. We need you. We need you to be sovereign over everything. We need you to be the Lord of all and the Lord of our lives. We love you. We thank you. And we ask that you would help us to live like King Jesus as followers of him, blessing people, caring about the dignity and the equality and the worth of people, and not acting in prideful arrogance like King Ahasuer. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's Esther chapter 1. Join me tomorrow for Esther 2. Have a blessed day in the Lord.