Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and it is day six hundred and sixty of our three-year journey through the Word of God. And we are here with Esther and Mordecai and the king of the Persian Empire, King Ahasiwa. And Haman the Agagite, the enemy of the Jews, in Esther chapter 6. Now, I will say, if for some reason you're just jumping into these devotionals, and this is the first one you're seeing, Uh this is one where you probably want to go back and uh do the devotionals for Esther 1 to 5 before you come to this one because it's a developing story and we're kind of jumping in midstream here. But let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Father, thank you for this wonderful book. Thank you for um how beautifully written it is and also how Challenging it is. It really meets us where we live, which is in a world where we don't see you visibly. We don't hear from you audibly. And yet we are called to trust that you are at work for our good and for your glory. And that's what we see exactly in the book of Esther. Help us, Father, in chapter 6 today. Teach us we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Esther chapter six. On that night the king could not sleep. No. And he gave orders to bring the book of memorable deeds, the chronicles, and they were read before the king. And it was found written how Mordecai had told about Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king's eunuchs, who guarded the threshold and who had sought to lay hands on King Ahasiueris. And the king said, What honor or distinction has been bestowed on Mordecai for this? The king's young men who attended him said, Nothing has been done for him. And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman had just entered the outer court of the king's palace to speak to the king about having Mordecai hanged on the gallows that he had prepared for him. And the king's young men told him, Haman is there, standing in the court. And the king said, Let him come in. So Haman came in, and the king said to him, What should be done to the man in whom the king delights to honor? And Haman said to himself, Whom would the king delight to honour more than me? And Haman said to the king, For the man whom the king delights to honor, let royal robes be brought, which the king has worn And the horse that the king has ridden, and on whose head a royal crown is set. And let the robes and the horse be handed over to one of the king's most noble officials. Let them dress the man whom the king delights to honor, and let them lead him on the horse through the square of the city, proclaiming before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor Then the king said to Haman, Hurry, take the robes and the horse. As you have said, so do to Mordecai the Jew, who sits at the king's gate, leave out nothing that you have mentioned. So Haman took the robes and the horse, and he dressed Mordecai, and led him through the square of the city, proclaiming before him. Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor. Then Mordecai returned to the king's gate But Haman hurried to his house mourning and with his head covered, and Haman told his wife Zarish and all his friends everything that had happened to him Then his wise men and his wife Zarish said to him, If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall Is of the Jewish people, you will not overcome him, but will surely fall before him. While they were yet talking with him, The king's eunuchs arrived and hurried to bring Haman to the feast that Esther had prepared. The providence of God is perfect. And at times he sort of shows us his cards, you know, tips his hand. Let's us see what he's up to so that we can see how everything is ordered perfectly, so that we can take that back to our own lives and believe it. Believe it when we don't see it. You see, at the beginning of the book of Daniel, all of the brightest youths from Jerusalem were taken captive. The sons of nobles, the sons of priests, the most high-class, high-promise, educated youths were taken off to Babylon, and among them were Daniel, Shadrach, and Meshach and Vednego, and it looked devastating. Why in the world? Why wouldn't God protect his city? Even though he'd sent word by the prophets that he was going to destroy the city. Why take the young? instead of the ones who are truly responsible for it. Why take the best of the brightest? But God did that because Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were going to have to testify. to Nebuchadnezzar through the fiery furnace, and Daniel was going to end up serving three different kings in two different empires over a long and distinguished career Which led to the final king he served issuing a proclamation throughout all the kingdoms that the God of Daniel, the Lord, should be honored as the one true God The most high God. Well, so we see things like that. We experience things in our lives, and we're not given the script, right? We're not given the Bible explanation. But the same God who sent those youths into exile, the same God who put Esther in the court of King The same God who caused Haman to hate Mordecai, the same God who allowed Mordecai to overhear the plot against the king. This same God is the God over every detail of your life and my life. Every day, every detail, hard things Pleasant things? Unexplicable things? Inexplicable things? Things that are wonderful and that we rejoice in because we obviously see the blessing. in it. All of them are equally under the hand of God and are equally for our good and the good of his people Together. It's not just our individual good, but it's the good of his people together and for his glory in and through us. We have to believe that. What's the alternative? There's no sense to it all. It's all chaos. There is a God, but he's helplessly watching it unfold. The Bible is so clear that there is a God and He's not helplessly watching it unfold. it unfold. He is sovereignly ordering it all. That gives our days meaning. We try to seize control of our days. We try to manipulate things We try to manipulate people and circumstances, events, to our own benefit. God is already working everything out for our true and eternal good and for his glory we need to be still and know that he is God, we need to trust him. Now that doesn't mean we don't we're not responsible. It doesn't mean we don't take advantage of opportunities that are given to us, that we don't do the So here it is, I think this very important this chapter comes right in the middle of what Esther is planning because Esther is planning something which is under God's hand. But here, right in the middle of Esther's planning, you have stuff that Esther and Mordecai are not planning. They didn't know anything about this. They didn't know that that night the king wouldn't be able to sleep. They had no control over that night the king calls for the people to read to him the deeds and the chronicles. And and that they just so happened to read about Mordecai, who spared the life of the king, and that the king would ask the question, what's been been done to honor this man and that who should happen to be in the court? Who is in the court? He wasn't looking for Haman. He just said, who is in the court? Oh Haman is in the court. Oh bring Haman in here See, Esther and Mordecai have nothing to do with chapter 6. So yes, does God use us? Yes, he does. Should we be faithful to the things God calls us to do and the opportunities God gives us? Yes, we should. Who knows but that you have come into the kingdom for such A time as this. We should be faithful with the callings God gives us and the opportunities that He gives us. We should. But we don't ultimately trust in that even. We don't trust that if we are just faithful and bold and brave enough in the things God gives us that that will accomplish. No, we're not. We trust God. Because the same God who gave us the calling and the opportunity is the same God who's working in ways that we can't see and that we're not in control of. He can be trusted. He can be trusted. Let's pray. Father, give us the grace to trust you one more. we cannot see. We are not God. We are not we're so small and so weak and so limited in what we see and what we know. We understand. And yet we become so convinced that our perspective is the right one, the true one, that what we see must be what's real. We're foolish and blind. Forgive us and give us faith to trust you and your promises beyond what our eyes see can see. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that is Esther chapter 6. Tomorrow back to the Gospel of Luke, Luke chapter 10. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day. Award.