Good morning, good morning, good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest O'Presial We're in the wonderful book of Esther, very different kind of book in the Bible. And we're in the middle of this drama that's unfolding where a plot has been hatched against the Jews by Haman, the Agagite, and now Mordecai is going to respond. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and all the ways that it instructs us. You give us a rich banquet. a feast in your word, and there are different kinds of things for us to feast upon and ponder and receive. Teach us today from Esther chapter 4. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Alright, Esther chapter 4. When Mordecai learned all that had been done, Mordecai tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and ashes. and went out into the midst of the city, and he cried out with a loud and bitter cry. He went up to the entrance of the king's gate, for no one was allowed to enter the king's gate clothed in sackcloth, and in every province, wherever the king's command and his doctrine reached, his decree reached. There was great mourning among the Jews, with fasting and weeping and lamenting, and many of them lay in sackcloth and ashes. When Esther's young women and her eunuchs came and told her, the queen was deeply distressed She sent garments to clothe Mordecai, so that he might take off his sackcloth, but he would not accept them. Then Esther called for Hathach one of the king's eunuchs, who had been appointed to attend her, and ordered him to go to Mordecai to learn what this was and why it was Hathach went out to Mordecai in the open square of the city in front of the king's gate, and Mordecai told him all that had happened to him. And the exact sum of money that Haman had promised to pay into the king's treasuries for the destruction of the Jews Mordecai also gave him a copy of the written decree issued in Susa for their destruction, that he might show it to Esther, and explain it to her, and command her to go to the king, to beg his favor And plead with him on behalf of her people. And Hathetch went and told Esther what Mordecai had said. Then Esther spoke to Hatheth. And commanded him to go to Mordecai and say, All the king's servants and the people of the king's provinces know that if any man or woman goes to the king inside the inner court without being called, There is but one law to be put to death, except the one to whom the king holds out the golden scepter, so that he may live. But as for me, I have not been called to come into the king these thirty days. And they told Mordecai what Esther had said. Then Mordecai told them to reply to Esther, Do you think to yourself that in the king's palace you will escape any more than all the other Jews. For if you keep silent at this time, relief and deliverance will rise from the Jews for the Jews from another place, but you and your father's house will perish. And who knows whether you have not come into the kingdom to the kingdom for such a time as this. Then Esther told him to reply to Mordecai, Go, gather all the Jews to be found in Susa, and hold a fast on my behalf and do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my young women will also fast as you do. Then I will go to the king, though it is against the law And if I perish, I perish. Mordecai then went away and did everything as Esther had ordered him. So Esther chapter four to me is where it's really fascinating how the author of Esther, whoever it is, we don't know, how the author Esther has just deliberately, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, writing the Word of God, right? Has kept God out of the explicit text of the story. So much so that here we have Mordecai, you know, covering himself in sackcloth. and ashes and weeping, crying out with a loud and bitter cry. And it doesn't even say he cried out to the Lord with a loud and bitter cry, although that's almost certainly what he was doing, right It says there was great mourning among the Jews in verse 3, with fasting and weeping and lamenting, and many of them lay in sackcloth and ashes. It doesn't even explicitly mention prayer, just fasting and weeping and lamenting. Same thing. After Esther says that she will be willing to go do it, she says, go and gather all the Jews we found in Susa and hold a fast on my behalf. She doesn't say hold a fast and seek the Lord. Although I'm sure that's what they did, right? And again, we talked about this before, and I don't want to, you know, over uh emphasize a point, but it is really remarkable. It's the only book in the Bible with the name of God is not mentioned, where God is not explicitly mentioned by any of his names, God, Lord, Yahweh, anything. And the reason for that is that we are to see That God is at work in unseen ways throughout. And so God must be not seen because because he's working in unseen ways. And that is probably the single biggest spiritual lesson for us to take away, is that God is always at work. He's always accomplishing what is best for his glory and for the good of his people, even when he has not. seen because most of the time we don't see God explicitly. Now what's happening here? Well Mordecai has learned. He learned what's been done. He knows what Haman did, he knows how much he paid into the King's Treasuries, he knows the orders that have been sent out. I mean it was not done in secret. was sent out to all the provinces and Mordecai's close to the king's gate and he has his ear open. Remember he caught the plot earlier, so he's a guy who knows what's going on, and he knows. And he is absolutely distraught because There's no way the Jewish people will be able to survive if this plot is carried out. It's a total annihilation of the Jewish people throughout the Persian Empire There's no way they're going to survive if this is carried out. And so he weeps and he laments and he fasts. And Esther hears about it and they're like, Hey, hey, Mordecai's out there. He's weeping and fasting and crying. Crying out so loud, he's wearing sackcloth and ashes. He's coming near the king's gate. No one's allowed to come into the king's gate wearing sackcloth and ashes. That's against the law. Uh he's drawing a lot of attention to himself. This is not good. She's like, oh, what am I going to do? And so she sends out clothes for him to put on and is trying to encourage him to stop doing what it is that he's doing. And he says no. I'm not going to do this. Because Mordecai tells the servant who goes out, uh um Hathach, one of the king's eunuchs, the one who goes out to Mordecai, and Mordecai tells him everything that's happening and what's going on. And he wants him to take it and show it to Esther. And he wants to command her, this is very explicit, verse 8, command her to go to the king. and beg his favor, and plead with him on behalf of her people. But Esther says, How can I do that? You're not allowed to go to the king uninvited and unannounced. You can't just go see the king. You're going to be put to death unless the king holds out the golden scepter. And, you know, we heard about Esther being the most beautiful one. We heard about Esther winning the beauty contest. We heard about Esther being but it's been it's been what a year since then At least. And now she's saying, I've not been called to come into the king for these thirty days. It's been a month since the kings wanted to see me or to Talk to me. Maybe he's moved on to some other woman. Maybe he's lost interest in me. Who knows? So all it takes is one little whim of the king, and he says, I don't want to see you right now. And she's dead. Right? So it's a serious thing. But Mordecai knows that the situation they're in is dire. And so he writes back and says, or he sends a message back. And says, don't think you're going to be safe. Mordecai shows some very strong confidence evidence in the Lord. For if you keep silent at this time, relief and deliverance will rise for the Jews from another place. Again, he doesn't explicitly say the Lord. But obviously it's the Lord is going to do that. And you and your father's house will perish. And who knows whether you have not come to the kingdom for such a time as this Come to the kingdom. This is what we call like this divine passive. It's the hand of providence. The hand of providence has brought her into the kingdom. This is what he's saying. God put you in the kingdom for some But he says it in a much more subtle way. And she knows. She knows she has to do the right thing. And so she asks God's people to pray for her. She doesn't want to die, but she certainly doesn't want to see her people die. So now we have to wait to see what's going on. So, what do we learn from this? Well, we the big thing we learn is that God is always at work, uh, even when we can't see his hand directly moving. But the other thing we see is that when we When we are distressed, when we are overwhelmed, when we feel afraid, anxious, the only right thing to do is to seek the Lord. And we should seek the Lord earnestly, passionately, zealously, not half-heartedly. We should seek the Lord. Let's pray. Father, we need you. We need you today, tomorrow, and forever. We need you every moment of every day. We need to seek your face because only you Can answer us, can save us, can move us, can deliver us. So be our savior, be our deliverer, be our God, be our king, be our rescuer, be our rock, our refuge. Save us from our own sin, save us from the cultural pressures of conformity, save us from the hatred of the world, be with your people and guard us in all of our ways. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Esther chapter four. I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.