Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel and this is day six hundred and sixty-six. Yeah, you knew it was coming, right? Day six Six six six. Well, that number, of course, it has a significance within the book of Revelation, but it's just the next number, right? It's not a cursed number. Uh here we are at the end of Esther. We do have our shortest reading. This is going to be the shortest reading of any of these um Daily Times in God's Word. We have just three verses here in Esther chapter ten. Let's ask the Lord's help because there's a lot for us to see in these short three verses. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are so good. You are unfailingly good, consistently, wonderfully good. We thank you for that. We ask that you would be teaching us through your word today as we gather around these few verses here at the end of the book of Esther. Help us to grow in Christlieness. We pray this in his name. Amen. All right, Esther chapter ten. King Nahascuarus imposed tax on the land and on the coastlands of the sea, and all the acts of his power and might, and the full account of the high honor of Mordecai, to which the king advanced him, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Media and Persia? For Mordecai the Jew was second in rank to King Ahasuerus, and he was great among the Jews, and popular with the multitude of his brothers, for he sought the welfare of his people, and spoke peace. to all his people. Hmm. There we are, Esther chapter ten. So Mordecai now becomes the third person in the Old Testament, who becomes second in rank to the most powerful person in the world. Remember, Joseph. Becomes number two in the land of Egypt. He becomes prime minister of the whole land of Egypt in the book of Genesis. And then remember, Daniel under Darius becomes uh the second second most powerful and uh he's uh pretty much in that position under Nebuchadnezzar as well. And now you have Mordecai. And Mordecai is a man who at first he wanted Esther to keep her people and her family connections a secret. He was you could maybe read into that that he's a little bit ashamed of being a Jew or he didn't want the scandal that would come from it because they were a persecuted minority. He sat at the king's gate, which is a place of honor. He's not there really as a beggar, but it's not really he's not in in power exactly. Although he does have close proximity to power. But what does he use that position for? Well, he's wise, right? He arranges for his niece. Hadassah, Esteter, to be put forth in this beauty contest to find a new queen of the Persian Empire, so he's wise, he's cunning, you could even say. He's crafty, right? But he also cares. He's listening, and when he hears a plot of two of the king's eunuchs who are going to assassinate the king, he alerts the palace officials who take action. So he's a man of action, he's a man of of wisdom, he's a man of of craftiness, but then he's also a man of faith because even though God is not explicitly mentioned here, he challenges Esther. He puts on sackcloth, he wails in the town square when it's first found out that Haman the Agagite has has plotted to have the Jews killed and has basically paid the king 10,000 uh talents of silver for this privilege, given a wealth of money to the king for the privilege of being able to wipe out the Jewish people. He weeps and wails with sackcloth. And even though we're not told explicitly in the text, obviously he's praying to God. He's crying out This is noticed, and Esther tries to get him to put some regular clothes on and be respectable, but he challenges her and he says, Who knows, but that you have come into the kingdom And he also says, he speaks in ways that show trust in God. He says, if you don't take action now, deliverance for the Jews will rise up in some other way. But you will not escape. So he's trusting God. Again, God is not explicitly mentioned, I think that's like the fiftieth time I've said that in this book, but God is definitely present. When he says deliverance will arise from somewhere else, he's trusting that God is going to keep his covenant. promises to his people and protect them. So he is a man of faith. And when Esther tells uh Mordecai to gather together the Jewish people for days of fasting and mourning, they're seeking the Lord during those days. And so he is a man of faith. And then he's a man who understands planning and organization because he's able to counter Remember, once Haman was caught and exposed and hanged, that didn't undo the plot to kill the Jewish people, because an edict of the king cannot just be revoked. So Mordecai understood, here's what we're going to have to do, and here's how we're going to have to do it. And throughout this, he's a man who's being blessed and who's being protected. by God. Now we do have to make something clear that I should have made clear earlier, and that is when we have to we do have to translate books like Esther in We are not a geopolitical people, we are not an ethnic group, we are not a A a people's a people group in the world like God's people in the Old Testament, the Jewish people were. And so some of the tactics of the kingdom are different, right? the the the crusades that were launched in ten ninety five, the idea that hey God's people are being persecuted and harassed while they're trying to make their pilgrimage to Jerusalem. So let's send an army to wipe out the Muslims and clear the way for Jewish pilgrims. That was wrong. There should not have been the taking up of arms to attack the enemies of God's people. people during the Crusades. So you can say that the actions in Esther were justified, but the Crusades were not justified, even though some people would argue on the surface of it, it's very similar, at least in how it got started, right? that God's people were being persecuted, they were being discriminated against, they were being harassed, they had enemies who were who were preventing them from free movement and were at times killing them. And so here is this action taken. So first of all it's not an apples to apples comparison because the plot in Esther is so clear that Haman the Agagite wanted to completely annihilate Every Jew from the face of the earth, and that was never the case with the way the Muslims were teeth treating Christians uh in the 1000s. But it's also we live in a different era and a different time. The new covenant kingdom of God of the church is not a kingdom of this world, and we are not to take up our swords and fight. We are to take up the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And the right way to respond to the Muslim world should have been to send missionaries and to pray for them and to preach the Word of God to them, which was not done. That simply was not done by God's people. So we need to keep in mind and not fall into, because we live in a world of political realities and political necessities. And it's going to be easy for Christians to fall into a mindset of say, well, we've got to fight for our rights like everybody else. No, we should not be fighting for our rights like everybody else. And even though in Esther, Mordecai had to take this action. To prevent this genocide, it's it's just different, right? And so we need to acknowledge that we live in a New Testament age and we're going to trust God. to protect his people, and we are called to love our enemies and to bless those who persecute us and to share the gospel with everyone from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, enemies of God's people, friends of God's people. People they should all hear the same thing from us, which is about Jesus and about his glory and about his gospel. So King Ahasuerus uh uh a a king who was who was benefited by the service of Mordecai just like Pharaoh was benefited by Joseph's service just like um Um Nebuchadnezzar and Darius were benefited by Daniel's service. We can bless and benefit the place where God has put us in our time of exile. We can serve the greater good of the of the place in which God has placed us in this world. But always keeping in mind that this is not our home, this is not ultimately where we belong, but we are on a journey to the Father, thank you for this wonderful little book of Esther. Thank you for all that it contains. There's so much more we could go into because there's just levels of meaning and perspective and truth. Help us to walk in wisdom as Mordecai did. Help us to walk in faith. Help us to walk in dependence upon you. Help us to be people who live wisely and who live faithfully. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that is the book of Esther. We're going to be jumping back to the Gospel of Luke tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.