We're going to turn our attention now to a sobering passage of Scripture, Romans chapter 2, verses 1 to 16. It's a reminder to us of why we all need the goodness of Jesus. As we consider God's righteous judgment that is coming. Romans chapter 2, verses 1 to 16, this is the Word of God. Therefore you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges, for in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself. Because you, the judge, practice the very same things. We know that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who practice such things. Do you suppose, O man, you who judge those who practice such things and yet do them yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you presume on the riches of His kindness and forbearance and repentance, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and impenitent heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his works. To those who by patience and well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life. But for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil. The Jew first and also the Greek. But glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no partiality. For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law. And all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts Accuse or even excuse them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, holy, holy, holy God, righteous and impartial judge of the whole world. We come before you today and this passage is stunning. It's surprising to us. It is hard to hear at times. Teach us your truth. Prepare our hearts and minds to receive it with faith and joy and obedience. That we might trust in Christ more deeply and be more and more conformed to His image by the work of your Spirit In us and among us. We pray this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. I still remember very clearly where I was on October 3rd, 1995. And if you're my age or older, you might not know the date, but you probably have a memory of where you were when you heard what I heard. I was sitting in my car on the campus of the University of Maryland. I was listening intently to the radio. As they announced the verdict in the O. J. Simpson murder trial. I was absolutely shocked when the verdict was not guilty. Most of the country for a year and a half since June seventeenth of nineteen ninety four when the police had a low-speed chase of a white Ford Bronco around the highways of Los Angeles. We had watched this drama unfold as as O. J. Simpson, who the youngsters among us probably don't understand. He was just one of the most famous people in America. He had been an outstanding football player, one of the greatest running backs of all time. He'd been a sportscaster, a movie star. He was just really, really well known. His face was on TV and commercials all the time. He was one of the most famous people in the country. And now here he was on trial for a double murder and as the trial unfolded it was broadcast live on television and to a lot of us it sure did look like he was guilty. And then the not guilty verdict came in and millions of people were shocked and appalled that he got away with a double murder. A few years later, in 1998, uh comedian Norm MacDonald actually lost his job on Saturday Night Live because he relentlessly mocked the verdict of the trial as being unjust. Why did we care? I mean, we're not connected to the Simpson or Goldman families. Why was the country so on the edge of their seats and following it? Why was there such a reaction to the verdict? It's because deep in the soul of every human being who is made in God's image is a longing for true justice. But because of the sinfulness of our own hearts, that often works itself out by us desiring justice for thee, but mercy for me. Or we fool ourselves into thinking, well, yeah, justice should come, but I'm better off and If God grades on a curve, I'll certainly be at the high end of the curve, and so I'll escape on the day of judgment. Last week the Apostle Paul gave a universal condemnation of all unrighteousness and ungodliness, showing that the wrath of God is already actively being revealed from heaven against all the ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. But religious people could easily hear that part of Romans and think it's not really describing them Since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, etc. , though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them. Yeah, they, those people, and religious people can sit back and say, that's right. They're going to get what's coming to them. And then do you notice that Paul switches pronouns? Therefore, you Have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges. Uh-oh, wait a minute I was just thinking, yeah, that's right, they're gonna get what's coming to them, and now I'm in the crosshairs For in passing judgment on another, you condemn yourself, because you, the judge, practice the very same things. We know that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who practice such things. Do you suppose, O man, you who judge those who practice such things, and yet do the very same things yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Whew Now he done quit preaching and start missing. Yeah It's very direct. He's very personal. In fact, you notice that Paul twice uses the expression oh man here. It apparently was a common way for a Jewish man to address fellow Jews. So he's kind of calling out We know the congregation in Rome was a mixed congregation of Jews and Gentiles. And he may be here specifically calling out those who are Jewish. And because of their Jewish background, their Jewish ethnicity, and because they grew up knowing the one true God and worshipping the one true God, they kind of looked down at the Gentiles in the church and be like, oh yeah, but you w look at where you came from. You were one of them Right? And so he wants to make sure that the Jews don't think that they were any better off without Jesus than the Gentiles were. Paul's already told us that the gospel is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes, the Jew first, also for the Greek. Now he wants everyone to understand. that everybody needs salvation from the wrath of God, Gentile and Jew alike. And so we can see this if we've grown up in the church, if we've grown up knowing the one true God, if we've grown up knowing God's moral standard, we've been taught Right from wrong from a young age, we can see this oh man as talking to us, to religious people, to good people. And here's what Paul is saying that's rather obvious. Judging others for what you yourself do is clear hypocrisy. Judging others for what you yourself do is clear hypocrisy. There's the old saying, every time you point a finger at somebody else, there's three of them pointing right back at you. Well let me help you unpack those three fingers pointing right back at you. And I'll do it while they're pointing back at me. So you say, oh, I see what you're doing over there, right? Well think first Does the desire to do that same thing live in my heart? Second, do I entertain thoughts of doing that thing? And third, are there times when I've only avoided doing that thing because I didn't want to deal with the consequences of getting caught? Heart, mind, actions. As my mom used to say growing up, when I got caught for doing something I knew I wasn't supposed to do. And I said, Oh I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. She would say, You're not sorry. You're just sorry you got caught. And I hated that because she was right. I resented it deeply because he was absolutely correct. If I could have gotten away with it, I would do it again. And that's usually what happened is I would do it again and she'd be like, Oh, you you know, you got caught for this before Like it's not my fault. She would bake cookies and then put them all in the cookie jar. Like literally, yes, we had a cookie jar. And she would put them all in there. She wouldn't even give us one to sample. She'd be like, these are all for the PTA meeting at the school tonight. Well I don't know about all. But it was wrong, right? It was wrong. So Jesus, this is why Jesus unpacks God's standard of righteousness the way that He does in Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5 is probably the single most convicting chapter in the whole of the Bible as Jesus unpacks the reality of the righteous standard of God's law. It's not enough to just say, well, I've never actually murdered someone. If you've hated someone You've committed murder in your heart because you've dehumanized them. You've despised them. If you've insulted someone, you've attacked the image of God in that person, and that also is liable to judgment. It's not enough to say I haven't actually committed adultery. If you thought about it. If you looked at it, if you pondered on it, and you thought, well, it wouldn't be worth the consequence of getting caught, well then you, in your heart, want to do what you are condemning others for doing. Whenever we call out the sins of others, we are actually right in saying that these things deserve the judgment of God. They do But what we're saying is that we deserve the judgment of God too. One of the ways that religious hypocrites will excuse themselves is by looking at how well off they are, how their lives have been blessed by God And they'll say, well, I must not be that bad because, you know, God's being good to me, God's taking care of me, everything's working out well for me. You know, God must be happy with me. Paul pretty much directly addresses that, where he says, Do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and impenitent heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. Just because your life is good doesn't mean that you are good. Just because your outward circumstances of your life are relatively easy and peaceful doesn't mean that God is necessarily happy with the way you're living your life. Contrary is true as well. Just because things are rough and you're going through great difficulties and everything seems impossible doesn't mean God's really mad at you and, you know. you harboring some terrible thing. That doesn't mean that either. We we're too quick to judge by external circumstances, and the Bible tells us over and over again not to do that. Jesus told us in his teachings that God is good to everyone, the righteous and the unrighteous. It's one of the ways he tells us. that we should love our enemies, not just our friends, not just our neighbors, but we should even love our enemies, because if we do that, we'll be children of our Father in heaven, who makes his son to rise on the righteous and the unrighteous, and he sends rain upon the good and the evil. And so we need to be careful not to judge by external circumstances, but rather every time we see that God is being good to us, we need to see that as a little prompter that we need to repent. Repent if if what we're tempted to think is, oh, I must be pretty good because God's being good to me. No, no, no, no, no, no. You're stealing glory from God by doing that. You say, God's being good to me, even though I don't deserve it, all glory to him. God's kindness is meant to lead us to repentance. Also, this idea of storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath. Is a reminder to us that God does, in fact, keep a record of sins and that He will justly deal with sin in the end. The justice of God requires that every sin be punished. Every sin be dealt with. God never sweeps something under the rug, looks the other way, winks the eye, and says, no big deal. Every sin must be dealt with. And God deals with people by an impartial standard. Look at verses 6 through 11. He will render to each one according to his works. So God judges the works of everyone. To those who by patience and well-doing seek glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life But for those who are self-seeking and who do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the Jew first, and also the Greek. So God judges both Jew and Greek, or both Jew and Gentile. But glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good. The Jew first, and also for the Greek, for God shows no partiality. God shows no partiality in judgment. Now wait a minute. Hold on. Time out I thought we were saved by grace through faith in Jesus. This sounds like you do good, you get to go to heaven You do bad, you have to go to hell. Some people do good, God will let them into heaven. Some people do bad, God's going to send them to hell. In a sense, yes, that is what this is saying. But We have to understand it in the context of the rest of Scripture and in particular what Paul's going to go on to say in chapter 3. So I want to give you a little bit of a spoiler alert. But let's begin by taking a look at what we're told is going to happen on Judgment Day. So if you keep your place in Romans 2, turn with me to Revelation 20. And in Revelation 20, we're given a picture of what will happen on Judgment Day. Revelation twenty, starting in verse eleven. Then I saw a great white throne and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them according to what they had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. So we're told about books. Books that record the deeds of everyone's life. And we're told that people are judged according to what they have done, according to what is in the books. So yes, Judgment Day takes place according to people's works. But, spoiler alert. If your name's not found written in the book of life, then you haven't done good. Paul's going to say in chapter 3, verse 10, which we'll get to in a couple weeks, no one does good, not even one. The point here is that when God lays out the works of a person's life, no one will have an excuse to cover themselves. No one will be able to say, but I gave a lot of money to the poor, but I served in the soup kitchen. But I helped little old ladies across the street. But Because what will be revealed is everything they did wrong knowingly. Paul's going to go on here to talk about how the law is written on their conscience. So everyone will be held to a standard that will be their works. No one can say that's not fair, because it'll be plain what they did. No one can say I didn't know because it's written on their conscience. What Paul's answering here is a false teaching that was prominent among Jewish people in his day. It's still prominent, unfortunately, among a lot of Jewish people today, and it's even prominent among some Christian people. And this false teaching says that all Jews will be vindicated on Judgment Day because they are descendants of Abraham through Isaac. Because they are children of the promise and they descend from Abraham through Isaac, all Jewish people will be vindicated on judgment day. And that's directly what Paul is contradicting here. That is not true. There is no lineage that gives you a free pass on Judgment Day. Your name must be written in the book of life, and we'll get to that. Well, we're not Jewish, but here's what it means for us. And kids, you might want to pay attention to this part. God is not impressed by who your parents are God is not looking at you and saying, oh, well, you know, you come from a good Christian family. You've been taught the truth from the time you've been born. You know the Word of God. You can answer Bible trivia questions. God's not impressed with that. You don't get credit on Judgment Day for knowing what God's righteous standard is. You could have the Ten Commandments memorized. You can have them inscribed on stone outside your house or outside the place where your church meets. You can have them tattooed on your arm or whatever. You'll still be judged impartially on the basis of your works. You will not get credit before God's judgment throne for your moral outrage against the sins of society. What's going to be judge for you is your works. Your works Let's go on to verse twelve. For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law. And all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law, for it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. For when Gentiles, that is unbelievers Who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves. Even though they have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts While their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. You ever met a really good unbeliever? I mean, I know some unbelievers who are nicer, more kind, more generous than some believers I know. Give you the shirt off their back. Help you with anything you need. Honest. Tell the truth. It's because While some people believe in the Word of God and have access to the written law, other people have the law in their hearts. We bear the image of God. We have the law in our hearts. Everyone does. Now, by sinning, you can sear your conscience. But everyone's own conscience condemns them. It's actually one way you can have a conversation with an unbeliever. And not immediately start in with, well, the Bible says, I mean I think you should quote Scripture because Scripture is the Word of God. But if you're wanting to have a conversation with them, About do you believe that there's a God? Do you believe there's going to be a judgment day? What standard do you think is going to be applied to people on Judgment Day? One question to ask is You know right and wrong, right? Have you ever done what you know is wrong And if they say no, then you can say, do you believe lying is wrong? Because anybody, if you ask them, do you, have you ever done what you know is wrong? And lying is one that most people would say, yeah, lying is wrong. You shouldn't lie. And yes, I've lied. Okay. But everyone's not only going to be judged according to their work, but the standard used will be a standard that's known to everyone. In human justice, in human courts, we have a principle that ignorance of the law is no excuse. And there's a reason why we have the principle that ignorance of the law is no excuse, and one practical reason Is that as soon as you let people say, okay, ignorance of the law is an excuse and you're off the hook, what is everybody going to start doing? Well, I didn't know. Right? And of course, how do you prove that? Because a human judge can't tell infallibly whether somebody knows something or doesn't know something. So Ignorance of the law is no excuse. But the government does take measures. They post the speed limit in big, clear letters. They post other signs for traffic regulation. They post other signs about loitering and about littering and about, you know, because they want you. They don't want you ignorant of the law. They want you to know the law because they want you to keep the law. Well, God is a far more powerful and perfect judge than any human judge could ever be. He has actually written his law on our hearts. He's given people a conscience that has the basics of the moral law of God, the basic standard that you should treat other people the way you want to be treated. If it's wrong for someone to do something to you, then it's wrong for you to do that to someone else. That's a basic understanding that's hardwired into us as human beings made in the image of God. And God knows what people know and don't know. And so they can't say, well, I didn't know, because God will say, oh, yeah, you do, because I know your secrets, I know your heart, I know what you know, and I know what you don't know. And so at the end of the day, everyone who has ever lived has enough of a sense of right and wrong and enough of an awareness of their own wrongdoing that their own conscience will condemn them on Judgment Day. There will be no excuse. There will be no escape. For all who have sinned, apart from the law, will perish apart from the law. All who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. And Paul's going to get even more explicit with it in chapter 3. No one is righteous, no not one. No one does good, not even one. Now you might be a little bit confused by the ending of our passage today. On that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of man by Christ Jesus. Is Judgment Day part of the gospel? Yes. Judgment Day, the condemnation of guilty sinners, is a vital part of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And let me give you three reasons why. First of all, Judgment Day vindicates the holy justice of God. And preserves the integrity of the new creation, the new heavens and the new earth. It's good news that all evil will be punished and vanquished from God's redeemed creation. Without judgment day, We would all bring sin and evil into the new creation, and then the new creation would become messed up, just like the old creation, and we'd do this thing all over again. Judgment Day is a separation. It's a separation of God's good creation from evil and sin. Jesus taught us about this separation in the parables He said, on judgment day, the sheep and the goats will be separated from each other. And by the way, there are some people who doubt the eternity of hell and who think, well, maybe people will just be punished for a little while and then Not you know not after that. It's actually Jesus who uses the strongest and clearest language. And in the parable of the sheep and the goats and the final judgment that is in Matthew 25. He talks about in verse 46, those who are the goats will go away into eternal punishment but the righteous into eternal life. The same word eternal is used for punishment as well as for life in verse 46 from the mouth of Jesus. So Jesus himself, he's also the one who said, the fire will not die, the worm will not die, the fire will not be quenched. So it's Jesus who speaks most clearly about the eternity of hell. He tells us there's going to be a separation. The parable of the net. It's a net full of fish. Some are good, some are bad. They're going to be separated. There's a parable of the wheat and the tares. The wheat will get stored in the barn. The tares will be burned up. So our first point is that Judgment Day vindicates the justice, the holy justice of God. Secondly, the absolute clarity, universality, and impartiality of Judgment Day makes the goodness of the good news unmistakably clear I think God is going to make it absolutely clear that everyone deserves eternal judgment. So that those whose names are written in the book of life and escape the judgment, we'll have even more reason to rejoice and to be thankful. And third A key part of the gospel is the full revelation of who Jesus is. And Jesus is the righteous judge of all the earth. And so he's going to be shown to be the truly perfect king who upholds perfect justice in his kingdom. Well, we have a heavy passage today. It's not a happy one, but it's part of the Word of God. It tells us clearly something that some of us really need to hear, and that is religious people who are morally outraged by the sins of our culture are without excuse when we ourselves are guilty of the same sins. It tells us that everyone knows the moral law of God well enough to be condemned by their own consciences. It answers this question about what about someone who never heard the gospel? In case you missed it, Judgment Day is not going to take place on the basis of did you hear the gospel or not? Did you respond to the gospel or not? The Bible doesn't teach that that's the basis of judgment day. Both Romans 2 and Revelation 20 say the basis of judgment day will be works. What you have done. What did you do with the life God gave you? What did you do with the conscience that God gave you? That's the basis. So that means like people who never heard the gospel, people who heard the gospel a thousand and one times, they're both judged on the same basis. What did you do? in your life. Your works is the basis of judgment. And your understanding, your own conscience. God's not going to be unfair. This whole idea of, oh it's not fair because nope, God's not going to be unfair. Everyone's judged on the same basis. God has no special favors based on lineage, heritage, or moral awareness. So where is our hope? Well, remember where this fits in the book of Romans. This is the unpacking of why we need the gospel. Back in 116 and 17, Paul had told us that the gospel is the power of God for salvation from judgment, from the wrath of God. For everyone who believes, for the Jew first, and also for the Greek or the Gentile. Why? Because in the gospel The righteousness of God is revealed out of God's own faithfulness to keep his promises and into our faith to receive the fulfillment of those promises in Jesus. And so in judgment day, the righteous one will live by faith. By faith. When you stand before God to be judged on that great day, If you're standing only on the basis of your own works, nobody has a shot. Nobody. Not Mother Teresa, not Princess Diana, nobody has a chance. But you don't need to stand on your own. And that's the point of those whose names are in the book of life. It's the book of life. It's the Lamb's book of life. And your name is written there if you trust in Jesus and not in yourself. To pass the test on judgment day, you need three things. You might want to write these down. There will be a test. On Judgment Day, you need three things. First, you need your sins, all the sins that you've committed, forgiven and covered. You need them washed away. That takes care of the problem, right? The negatives against you. But in a positive sense, you need a positive righteousness. That meets God's holy standard because God didn't tell us just don't do all these bad things. He also told us what? We're to love the Lord our God with All of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and we are to love our neighbor as ourselves. So we need a we need a righteousness that fulfills and completes God's standard of righteousness. If our conscience is going to be condemning us, we need a cleansed conscience. Cleansed from the defilement of sin. You need your sins covered and forgiven. You need your clo conscience cleansed. You need a positive righteousness. Where do you get this? Where do you get this? Only Jesus. Only Jesus. It's not Jesus and it's only Jesus. The blood of the Lamb Cleanses us from all sin, and cleanses our conscience from the defilement of sin. The righteousness of Jesus measures up to God's holy standard. And if you are in him and he is in you by faith, then Jesus is your Lord and Savior, and Jesus will pass the test. Cover your sin, cleanse you of all defilement, and count as your righteousness on the day of judgment. So the only question, the ultimate question, is, is your name in the book? How do I know? Are you trusting in Jesus? How do I know? Are you trusting in something other than Jesus? I mean sometimes kids, especially, look, I grew up in a Christian family, I grew up in church, more or less. One of the ways you know, am I really trusting in Jesus is to ask yourself, am I trusting in something other than Jesus? So think about this way, anything else that you're trusting in that's not Jesus It's like a lead weight that's going to drag you down. Cast off those things, cling to Jesus and Jesus only, and he will raise you up on the day of judgment. Jesus is our goodness, he's our righteousness, he's our purity, he's our peace. Now, if we belong to him We will follow him. We will obey him. The Holy Spirit will make us more like him. But let's not mistake That somehow our following him and our obeying him and our becoming like him is what's going to count for us on judgment day. He is the one who's going to count for us on judgment day. The fruit of obedience is just gives us assurance that we really are His. So, are you trusting in Jesus? That's the question. That's what it comes down to. Nothing else is going to do. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you've given us the perfect gift. You've given us a complete salvation in your Son Jesus. In Jesus we lack nothing. The forgiveness of every sin, the cleansing of our conscience from all defilement, the fulfillment of all righteous expectations of the law, it's all given to us in Jesus our Savior. So I pray that we would let go of anything else we're trusting in, who our parents are. How much good we do. That if we're clinging to these things, thinking that we're going to present them to you on Judgment Day and they're going to count for us, that we would let them go. We can give you thanks for these things, because they're gifts from you, but we can't claim credit for them, as though somehow they're going to make us self-righteous on that day. We need our Savior. We need Jesus from beginning to end. Thank you for Him. Lord Jesus, thank you for fulfilling all righteousness, for dying in our place, for rising again from the dead. for making intercession for us, for coming again to save us. You are our only hope. Amen.