Isaiah 54, we're going to read the whole chapter together. This is the Word of God. Sing O barren one who did not bear, break forth into singing and cry aloud, you who have not been in labor. For the children of the desolate one will be more than the children of her who is married, says the Lord. Enlarge the place of your tent. Let the curtains of your habitations be spread out. Do not hold back. Lengthen your cords and strengthen your stakes. For you will spread abroad to the right and to the left, and your offspring will possess the nations and will people the desolate cities. Fear not For you will not be ashamed. Be not confounded, for you will not be disgraced. For you will forget the shame of your youth and the reproach of your widowhood you will remember no more. For your maker is your husband. The Lord of hosts is his name. And the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer. The God of the whole earth, he is called For the Lord has called you like a wife deserted and grieved in spirit, like a wife of youth when she is cast off, says your God. For a brief moment I deserted you But with great compassion I will gather you. In overflowing anger for a moment, I hid my face from you. But with everlasting love I will have compassion on you, says the Lord, your Redeemer. This is like the days of Noah to me. As I swore then that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth, so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you. and will not rebuke you. For the mountains may depart, and the hills be removed. But my steadfast love shall not depart from you, and my covenant of peace shall not be removed, says the Lord, who has compassion on You. Oh afflicted one, storm-tossed and not comforted, behold, I will set your stones in anti And lay your foundations with sapphires. I will make your pinnacles of agate, your gates of carbuncles, and all your walls of precious stones. All your children shall be taught by the Lord, and great shall be the peace of your children. In righteousness you shall be established, you shall be far from oppression. For you shall not fear, and from terror, for it shall not come near you. If anyone stirs up strife, it is not from me. Whoever stirs up strife with you shall fall because of you. Behold, I have created the smith who blows the coals of fire and produces a weapon for its purpose. I have also created the ravager to destroy. No weapon that is fashioned against you shall succeed, and you shall refute every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord and their vindication from me, declares the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we're gathered here together on the Lord's Day because you've called us together You have ordained that we should be here right now to hear this passage of your word. So we've come to hear from you. We need you to speak to us powerfully from your word, write your word on our hearts as only you can work in each one of us that we might receive what you have for us We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah fifty four is is uh what I think of as a valley text. between two great mountains. Isaiah 53, which we looked at the last three weeks, and Isaiah 55, which we're going to look at next week, are both sort of mountaintop, they're very famous, they're very well known. You know, I would rank them among my favorite chapters in Scripture, ones that we've gotten psalms from and sermons from. And then Isaiah 54 lies in between. But as you go down into the valley of Isaiah 54, you see it's just as sweet, and it really follows from Isaiah 53, and it sets us up for Isaiah 55 beautifully. So, the Declaration of Independence. That wonderful document, which, among other things, led to a great movie. I'm going to tell you about the my my worst moment on a field trip as a teacher. I was teaching um American government. And we went to Philadelphia because we wanted to go to Independence Hall and to go to the room where the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution were both drafted. And then we went to the Constitution Center and we, you know, studied about the Constitution. And so I had high schoolers with me. And we're in Independence Hall and we're touring Independence Hall. We come to the room, the room If you've not been there, you should go there. It's not that far away. The room where both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution were agreed upon, ratified, passed, our government was born in that room. And they were talking about the chair that George Washington sat in when he presided over the Constitutional Convention and how there's a half son on the back of the chair and And Franklin toward the end of the Constitutional Convention said, All all throughout this convention I've been watching that half sun, uncertain whether it's a sun rising or a sun setting, and now I believe that it is a rising sun And they're talking about George Washington and Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson and John Adams and George Mason and and John Hancock, all the people who were there in that room. And then somebody asked a question about the filming of National Treasure and they said, yeah, it was filmed here and we had to shut down for a couple of days, but it was kind of neat to see the film crew and everything and then one of my students says you mean you mean Nicolas Cage was in this room And I'm like, I don't know this kid. And the the docent just said, yes, Nicolas Cage was in this room. The same room that George Washington and Thomas Jefferson and Sean Adams were also in. Anyway, that wasn't in my notes, but One of Jefferson's great uh turns of phrase in the Declaration of Independence is when he talks about our inalienable rights. We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal, they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, and that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Jefferson had sort of come up with that expression, the pursuit of happiness, and it's very American. It's very American. I've always been intrigued by that phrase because it's like a hunt. You're hunting for happiness. And it reminded me of a hunt that I was sent on when I was a boy on my first Boy Scout camping trip. The older scouts, one of whom might be seated in this room, the older scouts sent me out on a snipe hunt. Now here's the thing. Snipes are in fact real. Um but They're small wading birds that catch fish and other little creatures on the edge of bodies of water. Snipes were not inhabiting the woods around our Boy Scout camp That's not where they were to be found. And even if they were to be found there, I was not equipped or engaged to properly conduct a snipe hunt. I was just a kid with a flashlight walking through the woods. Trying not to get lost. I think for freedom-loving Americans, the pursuit of happiness is often much like that Boy Scout snipe hunt. Happiness exists and is in fact worth having if we understand it rightly. But most Americans are looking in places where it cannot be found. And also using techniques that will not be effective to find it. What exactly is happiness? Some people would would define happiness as having everything you've ever wanted Others would describe it as having a purpose for your life, a sense of fulfillment in your work. Others would say it's found in being truly loved and finding your truth. Love. Definitions vary, but you see what most of these have in common is most people define happiness in terms of the thing that they think is going to bring them happiness. The classic concept of happiness that underlies Jefferson's expression is really another way of talking about the good life. Or even we could say another way of talking about what Jesus talked about in the Sermon on the Mount of before being blessed, the blessed life, the good life. Life the way it was supposed to be. Life that is in harmony with the nature that we've been given. This type of happiness everyone is actually pursuing, whether they know it or not. We all want life to be the way that we think it should be. But the question is, how do we know? How do we know the way life is supposed to be? We feel when it's not that way, we feel that sense of emptiness, that sense of longing, that sense of dis dissatisfaction. Anxiety, fear, shame, insecurity, whatever it is, we we sense that, but how do we know what the right is? Well, I would say that the answer to the question, where can happiness or the good life be found, is found in one word. And as a pastor, you might be expecting me to say God. But I'll give you a different word. It's a word that's found at the heart of our text today, and that is the word chesed. Indeed. Hased is a Hebrew word that is almost untranslatable into English, but in in our English Standard Version it's translated as steadfast love. And you can see it in verse 10. For the mountains may depart and the hills be removed, but my steadfast love, my chesed, shall not depart from you, and my covenant of peace Shall not be removed, says the Lord who has compassion on you. It's actually there two verses earlier in verse 8, although it's not translated as steadfast love, it's just translated with the word love. In overflowing anger for a moment I hid my face from you, but with everlasting chesed, with everlasting steadfast love, I will have compassion on you, says the Lord your Redeemer. What is I said, what is steadfast love? Well if you've heard my sermons before, you've probably heard me talk about it before. It is God's unfailing commitment. To our eternal well-being. It is his unfailing, his steadfast commitment To have compassion on us, to have mercy on us, to establish righteousness for us and justice, all that it would take for us to be eternally blessed. God's committed to doing that. And in this passage, he talks about it in terms of taking us to be his bride, becoming our husband. And having compassion on us, a compassion that is everlasting, that is unfailing. And as we look at this passage, we're actually given three things. that I think for us are key ingredients to living in the chesed of God, living in God's steadfast love and knowing that we are truly blessed, that we do have the good life that's been given to us. It's been given to us as a gift. You see, a lot of people are hunting for it, looking for it in the stock market, in the cryptocurrency market. in the job place, maybe in charitable work. They're looking for it, but actually it has to be given to us by God. And when God gives it to us, it brings with it three things that I think are non-negotiable necessities. For experiencing the good life or blessedness, and they're spelled out for us in this chapter. And here they are. The first one is a secure and joyful confidence. A secure and joyful confidence. The second is a healing comfort. And the third is a firm hope for the future. If you look at chapter 54 with me, verses 1 to 3 spell out the secure and joyful confidence When it calls us to sing and to enlarge the place of your tent. Verses 4 to 6 bring us this healing comfort. When God tells us to fear not, for you will not be ashamed, because God is having compassion on you. And then in verses seven through ten, we actually have the foundation in the everlasting love and the steadfast love of God. And then finally in verses eleven to seventeen, the working out of this that gives us a firm hope. So a secure and joyful confidence, a healing comfort, and a firm hope for the future. Sing, O barren one who did not bear, break forth into singing and cry aloud, you who have not been in labor For the children of the desolate one will be more than the children of her who is married, says the Lord. Enlarge the place of your tent, let the curtains of your habitations be stretched out, do not hold back, lengthen your cords, strengthen your stakes For ye will be spread abroad to the right and to the left, and your offspring will possess the nations and will people the desolate cities We're given two pictures here, which are very surprising, and they show us that the nature of our joyful confidence is surprising. It's not what the world would say Got to remember where this is written, when. This is written by Isaiah, but it's written to a future generation that will be in exile. They will be a thousand miles from their home. They will be living as captive people, enslaved by a greater world power. And in the process of all that unfolding, they're going to lose a lot of people. Between the warfare and the siege and the captivity, the population of God's people dwindles Severely. And so God paints two pictures for them: a picture of a childless woman and a picture of a nomadic people living in tents, people who aren't in their home. And he says to them this, I want you to sing, and I want you to enlarge the tent. Even though you're like a childless woman, a woman who's never been able to give birth, which in the ancient world that's It's always painful, it's always difficult, but it was even more serious and life-threatening for a woman to not have children in the ancient world. And the simple reason was that if The wife lived longer than the husband, which is usually the way that it goes, and she didn't have any children, she would be completely without help or resource in the world Women were not allowed to own property, women were not allowed to run businesses, women were not allowed to earn money, generally speaking, in the ancient world. And so a widow without children was the most helpless of all people. That's the picture here because again he says later you'll not remember your widowhood. So Israel, the people of God, they find themselves in a situation that is like A childless widow. They're so vulnerable. They're so helpless. The Babylonians far outnumber them and far you know outpower them. It's not even close. And God says to them, I want you to sing. And I want you to enlarge your tent. That's a joyful confidence. Because it's not based upon what's happening in the moment, right? It's not hard to be joyful when good things happen for you. It's not hard to rejoice when you just got a pay raise or you got a great year-end bonus or your favorite team won the Super Bowl. Whatever. It's not hard to be happy then, but God says, I want you to sing and I want you to enlarge the place of your tent even when you're in exile, even when You're in a time of difficulty because I'm making you a promise, and that is you're going to have more children. You're going to be like a barren woman who's told that she's going to have more children than anybody she knows And you're actually going to spread abroad to the right and to the left, and your offspring are going to possess the nations. Now, how in the world is this going to happen? Well, here we have to remember something that's very difficult and very profound. So I want you to pay attention here. I'm going to hit you with some really difficult, advanced concept. Okay? We have to remember that Isaiah 54 comes right after Isaiah 53. Everybody following me so far? The reason I say that is because the only way this happens for God's people is once Jesus does all that is laid out for him to do in chapter 15. It is the finished work of Christ in redeeming his people. It is his suffering and death in our place. It is his victorious resurrection over death. It is his intercession right now. Remember the last line of chapter 53 is that he bore the sin of many and he makes intercession for the transgressors. We are transgressors. But Christ, the righteous one, makes intercession And it's his finished work and his present work as our high priestly intercession that makes this possible. And what does it look like? It looks like exactly what it said. The kingdom of God is going forth into all the world Spreading out to the right and to the left, your offspring will possess the nations and will people the desolate cities. What think about what happened in the history of God's people. There was a reducing and a judging and a reducing and a judging until the point when Jesus came into the world, God's people were living under Roman occupation. Under Roman oppression. Before that they've been under Greek occupation and oppression. Before that They had been under Persian occupation and oppression. Before that, they had been under Babylonian occupation and oppression. There's nothing about this that happens before Jesus comes because it didn't happen. But when Jesus comes, what happens? Well, ten days after he ascends back into heaven to make intercession for us, he sends the Holy Spirit. And when the Holy Spirit is poured out at Pentecost, there are 120 believers gathered together in the upper room. But when the Holy Spirit comes as a direct result of Christ's finished work, in one day the gospel is proclaimed from to people from every nation in that area. And 3,000 souls are added to the church in one day. Can you imagine that? I mean, on a good Sunday, we have about 120 in attendance. Can you imagine if in one day the Lord added 3,000 people to our church family? What would we do? Like how would we I mean that would be overwhelming. That's the picture. God actually gave his disciples a picture of that when he first called them. Because when he first called them, remember what happened with Peter and Andrew and James and John? They'd been fishing all night and they came in, they hadn't caught anything, and Jesus says, go back out, cast your nets. And they're like, oh, okay, we fished all night and didn't catch anything, but at your word we will obey. This guy's not a fisherman, is he? What is he a carpenter? I mean carpenter what do a carpenter's know about fish? But they go out and they pull in the nets and there are so many fish that the nets are beginning to break and they have to call the other boat over to share the load. And that was the picture that Jesus gave of what he was going to do. And within one generation, within forty years of Jesus' death and resurrection, within one generation, the gospel has gone as far east as southern India. As far west as Spain, as far south as Ethiopia, and there are tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of believers in every major city across the Roman Empire. In one generation. Today, of course, there are approximately two point three billion people in the world who name themselves as Christians. I mean they all are all genuine Christians, but they all identify themselves as Christians. And you will find God's people worshiping Jesus in every nation of the earth God has kept his word. God is keeping his word. Jonathan prayed, giving thanks for last weekend, Jacob and Carol and Charles. Our dear uh Aringa pastor friend, they were in Yumbei district for this great outreach. I sent out an email about it and asked you to pray for it. Six different churches got together and held joint meetings. They had evangelistic outreaches on Saturday. They had joint worship on Sunday. Thousands of people came. Hundreds of people probably came to know the Lord. But we don't even know the lasting fruit that's going to be seen from that. God is at work. God is at work. But it doesn't look like what the world says it should look like. The barren woman, she rejoices not because she herself Is able to give birth, but because she becomes part of a family where she's given children that are far greater than anyone else Peter, in Mark chapter 10, Peter comes up to Jesus and says, Sir, we've left everything and followed you. And Jesus says to Peter, Truly, truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house and brothers and sisters. and mother and father or children or lands for my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time Houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands with persecutions and in the age to come eternal life. That's what Jesus said to Peter. Now, some people have taken Jesus' words out of context and not understood the whole flow of Scripture, and they've said, Well, if you give ten dollars to God, he'll give you a hundredfold back. That's not what Jesus is saying. Peter left behind a pretty successful fishing business from what we know of his family business. in Capernaum. And his life ended dying a martyr being hung upside down on a cross. But as an apostle in the Church of Jesus Christ and as one of the authors of Scripture, he was welcomed into a kingdom and family and this is the real key. If you want to sing with this joyful confidence, if you want to be able to be ambitious There was a a cobbler in England, in Britain, in the seventeen eighties. And he read Isaiah 54, verses two and three. Enlarge the place of your tent Let your curtains be stretched out, for you will spread abroad to the right and the left, and your offspring will possess the nations. He read those verses. And he said, there's work that God's going to do, and there's work that he calls us to do as part of that work. Your offspring will possess the nations, you will spread out to the right and to the left, but then there's work that he calls us to do. Enlarge the place of your tent. Let the curtains of your habitation be stretched out. He said, So The gospel's going to go out to all the nations, but there's work that we're called to do as part of that work. So how can I be part of that work? Now this cobbler was not a trained theologian, but he came to his church, his Presbyterian church, and he shared with his the missions committee or the the committee of it the Presbyterian Church what his pl uh what his ideas were that we need to be doing something to reach the heathen because the British were spreading out through the world at this time. It was And uh an elder in the Presbyterian church told him, Young man, if God is going to reach the heathen I said, I don't think that's right. And so he went and he wrote a little booklet called An Inquiry into the Use of Means for the Conversion of the Heathen Nation. And that man was William Carey, who then set out in 1792 to go to India, and that little booklet launched the modern missions movement that sent out more people to reach the nations over the next hundred years years than had happened over the previous 500. But William Carey found this blessed life, and Peter found this blessed life life by laying aside what he wanted and looking at what God wanted. So many people get disappointed with God because they keep trying to use God as a means to their own selfish and short-sighted end. They say things like, I prayed, but I didn't get the promotion at work. Therefore, God doesn't hear my prayers. God invites us into something radically more costly and more joyfully and eternally significant than getting a promotion at work. Or even getting healed from cancer. He's got something better for us. All those things are temporary. All those things last for a short period of time and then they're gone like everything else in the world. Something eternal. He has something truly blessed for us, and that is to invite us into his very kingdom, his very household, his very table, his very presence. So he's not going to play cosmic Santa Claus or Magic Genie to bless you with your plans and purposes, which are so small and so limited. He's going to invite you into his plans and purposes. purposes and to see how you can play a part. He's gifted you and he's called you to have a significant, eternally impactful place in the kingdom work that he is doing, and you can have joyful confidence that he who began a good work in you will be faithful to complete it at the day of Christ Jesus. Will not fail. And so we do not need to be afraid. The second thing we see is comfort, healing comfort. Fear not. Verse 4, for you will not be ashamed. Be not confounded, for you will not be disgraced, for you will forget the shame of your youth, and the reproach of your widowhood you will remember no more, for your maker is your husband The Lord of hosts is his name, and the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer. The God of the whole earth he is called, for the Lord has called you like a deserted wife, grieved in spirit, like a wife of youth when she's cast off, says your God. Fear not. Fear not. Why? Because there's no more shame and there's no more disgrace for you. Have you ever done something that you're ashamed of? I'm guessing that all of us have done multiple things That if we knew they were going to be said out loud in this room right now, we would probably just run away as fast as we could and never want to look at anybody again because like, no, I can't have that come out But God says there's no more shame. Because God sees it all, God knows it all Christ has covered it all by his blood and righteousness. And God has compassion on us. He welcomes us. He says he's our husband and he's called us. So no matter how many times we've blown it, no matter how many times we've beaten ourselves up about blowing it. How many times we fall for the traps that Satan lays for us? We do not need to be ashamed. Here's something that we need to believe from this passage. And from the rest of Scripture, God is not disappointed in you when you do not measure up to your own expectations for yourself. God is not disappointed in you when you fail to measure up to your own expectations for yourself. Because God knows how weak you really are. And He loves you. Another way to put it, God is not ashamed of you when you are ashamed of yourself. He is not ashamed to be called your God, even when you are ashamed of yourself. God has wedded himself to us. He has called us out of shame and back to himself. And one of the most powerful little books in the Bible, the prophet Hosea, gives us a stirring picture of this. The prophet Hosea, he prophesied around the same time as Isaiah. He was given a very, very difficult call by the Lord. The Lord told him, Hosea, go and marry a woman of adultery, a woman who was unfaithful. And so he went and he took Gomer to be his wife. And she cheated on him. And she had three children, two of whom were probably not his kids. And then she left him. And she went and sold herself into slavery. Rather than be his wife. And God says to Hosea, I want you to go to the slave market, and I want you to buy her back. for yourself and welcome her back into your home. Now I think about that and I just think, I am so glad I am not Hosea. But then I realize, wait a minute, I am Gomer. And God is Hosea. God gave Hosea that call because he wanted Hosea to have in his life a small taste of what he's done for us. He made us in his own image. He gave us knowledge of himself. He gave us his word. And we have said again and again, I'd rather have this thing over here. We commit spiritual adultery And sometimes we just walk away from him altogether and say, I, you know, right now I just don't want to talk to you, God. I don't want to have you in my life. I'm going to go do my own thing. But God says to us, I love you. And the purchase price he paid for us is spelled out for us in Isaiah 53. He bought us at the cost of his son, who willingly laid down his life to redeem us to himself and to wed us to himself forever. And so, yes, Satan still attacks us, our faith still wavers, we doubt, our flesh kicks against God's will, it drags us down. Sometimes we're puffed up with self-righteous pride, and other times we're wallowing in self-loathing shame, but neither of these voices is true because we are not dependent on ourselves. Did you hear what we confessed earlier from the Heidelberg Catechism? I love this question. How are you righteous before God? And it's very open, like, although my conscience accuses me that I've grievously sinned against all God's commandments, have never kept any of them, and am still inclined to all evil, yet God, without any merit of my own, out of mere grace imputes to me the perfect satisfaction, righteousness, and holiness of Christ, he grants these to me as if I had never had nor committed any sin. And as if I myself had accomplished all the obedience which Christ has rendered for me, if only I accept the gift with a belief. Do we trust God? Do we trust God to do what He says he's going to do? To do what He's already done. We don't need to be afraid. In fact, we must not be afraid, not because of who we are in ourselves, but because of who we are in Christ. That is who we are. Who we are is who we are in Christ And then the ground for all this is laid out in verses 7 to 10. For a brief moment I deserted you, but with great compassion I will gather you. In overflowing anger, for a moment I hid my face from you, but with everlasting love I will have compassion on you says the Lord your Redeemer. This is like the days of Noah to me, as I swore that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth, so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you and I will not rebuke you, for the mountains may depart The hills be removed, but my steadfast love shall not depart from you, and my covenant of peace shall not be removed, says the Lord who has compassion on you. When we feel deserted, ashamed, and discouraged, God comes to us with compassion, compassion, everlasting has said, steadfast love, covenant of peace. That's what he answers our shame with. He says, there was a brief moment of desertion and anger in judgment, but then that was met with great compassion and everlasting love. And then he says he promises he's never angry with us again. Just like in the days of Noah, he said, no more Shall the waters go over the earth? He says, so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you. If God has poured out all of the wrath due to us for our sin on Christ, if Christ drank the cup of God's judgment to the bottom, then there is no more anger at us. There is no more wrath toward us who belong to him. God is never angry with you, He does discipline you. But he always disciplines you out of love and for your good. Now, parents know that in the times when we've disciplined our kids, there were times when we truly disciplined our kids out of love for their good. And we didn't want to do it, but we did it because we knew it was going to be best for them, and we loved them through it. We also know what it is to have disciplined our kids in anger because we're still God never does that. God never loses it with us and flies off the handle. Never. He's never angry with us. Jesus took all that. So when he disciplines us, it may be hard, it may be painful, but it's always in love, and it's always for a purpose, for our good. His steadfast committed love will never be departed from us. His covenant of peace will never be removed from us. He says he's taken our sins as far away from us as the East is from the West. And so this gives us a solid hope. To live by faith in future grace. And this is going to bring us, we're not going to spend a long time on the last part of this chapter. But verses eleven to seventeen spell this out. O afflicted one, storm-tossed and not comforted, behold, I will set your stones in antimony, and lay your foundations with sapphires. I will make your pinnacles of agate your gates of carbuncles, and all your wall of precious stones, all your children shall be taught by the Lord, and great shall be the peace of your children. In righteousness you shall be established, you shall be far from oppression, for you shall not fear, and from terror, for it shall not come near you. If anyone stirs up strife, it is not from me. Whoever stirs up strife with you shall fall because of you. Behold, I have created the Smith who blows the coals of fire, who produces a weapon for its purpose, I have also created the ravager to destroy. No weapon that is fashioned against you shall succeed. And you shall refute every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord, and their vindication from me, declares the Lord. You hear all of those I wills and I wills and I wills. God has promised to us Ultimately, the picture of this being fully complete is found at the end when Jesus comes again. When Jesus comes again, he's going to put a final end to all evil. There will be no more sinful wandering in our hearts. There will be only eternal joy forever. And it's in Revelation 21 with this picture of Jesus having come again and the New Jerusalem being complete, that we get the very same language from Isaiah 54 repeated. John has a vision of the New Jerusalem and he sees it. He says the wall was built of jasper. While the city was pure gold like clear glass, the foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. The first was Jasper, the second Sapphire, the third Agate, the fourth Emerald, the fifth Onyx, the sixth Carnelian, the seventh Chrysopolite, the eighth barrel, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase. The eleventh Jacint, the twelfth amethyst, don't ask me what half of those stones are, I have no idea. But it's every kind And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold like transparent glass. That's the exact language. drawn here from Isaiah 54. It comes to consummation when Jesus comes again. That's when it will be fully complete. But until that day When we go through strife, when we face opposition, God is with us and God is for us. Satan comes against us, our doubts rears our ugly head, our flesh kicks against us, the world mocks us. In all those Circumstances, God is telling us He is with us and He is for us and He will bring us through it all He will establish his purposes for us, and Satan's purposes will fail. This doesn't have to do some people take again out of context, they say, no weapon that is for fashioned against you shall succeed. They say, well, that means you'll never die of cancer and you'll never be poor and you'll never No, that's not what he's talking about. Satan's purposes to wrench you out of the hand of God and condemn you to hell forever, they will fail. They will fail. And God's purpose to establish you forever in His presence with eternal perfect joy, that will succeed. That will succeed. But we're only going to find this kind of confidence by walking in faith in the grace that God will continue to give. Because of his everlasting, steadfast love extended to us in the covenant of peace that Jesus secured for us. In his redeeming work. He said, This is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. That's the covenant of peace here. We have joyful confidence. We have effective eternal healing comfort. We have solid hope for the future. To live the truly blessed lives that God has in store for us, lived in harmony with His purposes and His plans for His kingdom and for our eternal good. And so the closing question I have for you. then is if all of this is true and we know it to be true, will we stop the snipe hunt and live for him instead? Let's pray. Father in heaven, the world makes empty promises that are smoke and mirrors. But your promises are yes in Christ, and they stand forever. May we live by faith in your promises and turn our backs on the promises of the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.