Turn with me, please, in God's Word. We are in Isaiah 5213 to 533 today. We're beginning this fourth servant song. Three weeks in this passage that goes from fifty-two thirteen to fifty-three twelve, the end of fifty-three. It's a great passage of Scripture. It's powerful in what it reveals to us about Christ. So here now the Word of God. Behold. My servant shall act wisely. He shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted. As many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind. So shall he sprinkle many nations. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him For that which has not been told them they see, and that which they have not heard, they understand. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant And like a root out of dry ground he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Pray. Heavenly Father, we come today to this powerful song of your servant and son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We ask that your Holy Spirit would prepare us to hear your word, to understand your word, to receive your word by faith. That it might find good soil in our hearts to bear fruit for your glory, that we might love Jesus more, that we might follow Him better. For the time we spend in your word this morning, we ask this in Jesus' name and for His sake. Amen. Amen. You may be seated So as I said, we've come today to the fourth servant song in Isaiah. You have a special bonus insert in your bulletin if you haven't noticed. And this insert contains the four servant songs of Isaiah. Now, a heads-up warning. When we get to Isaiah 61, I'm going to tell you that it might be a fifth servant song. But We'll save that. There are four servant songs in Isaiah that all begin with talking about the servant Or the servant himself speaking. And we've been through the first three, and now we're on the fourth one. And we're going to spend three weeks in this fourth servant song. If you just look at the insert of the four servant songs, you can tell that it is the longest. It is the most detailed, and it is just one of the greatest passages of Scripture. It is remarkable in that almost anybody Who knows the basic facts of the Christian message? When they hear the words of Isaiah 53, they say, Oh, that's talking about Jesus. And then you say, yes, and it was written by the prophet Isaiah 700 years before Jesus was born. So controversial was this truth, this plain and obvious truth among people who don't want to believe in Jesus, who don't want to believe in the scriptures, that for years People said, oh, Christians got a hold of the book of Isaiah and they manipulated it. They rewrote it. So that it would sound like it was about Jesus when really it was originally about the suffering of Israel. And then in 1947 A shepherd boy in Israel discovered quite by accident the Dead Sea Scrolls. And suddenly we had a copy of the book of Isaiah that was over a thousand years older than any of our existing copies. And that clearly predated Christ. It was to 100 to 200 years before Christ, we think. And they looked at it. And there's Isaiah 53 saying the same thing. So much for the theory that Christians manipulated the text. It is a great passage about a great savior. And yet, it's all about suffering. And being despised and rejected and disfigured and mocked and ridiculed and pierced and crushed, how is that greatness? We say this is a great passage. We say it's about a great man, and yet there's none of the hallmarks of what the world regards as greatness to be found here. You ask historians who's the greatest person who ever lived, and if they're secular historians, they they tend to shy away from talking about Jesus because they don't want to get into religious controversies. And so a lot of them will answer with other things. Some of them will say Alexander the Great. is the greatest person who ever lived because he conquered the biggest empire that the world had ever seen, and he did so in the space of thirteen years, by the time he was thirty-three years old, and then he died. He was the greatest conqueror and isn't conquering the measure of greatness in our world. Others, more intellectual and scientifically minded, would say, without a doubt, Isaac Newton is the greatest person who ever lived. You have one man who discovered the law of gravity, the four universal laws of motion. Invented the reflecting telescope that allowed us to look at the motions of the heavenly bodies more accurately, invented calculus, And also figured out how to break white light into the color spectrum. So he was the one who told who showed us that what we see as white light is actually a spectrum of colors. He he himself did all of that, changing science and math and astronomy and physics. Other people would say maybe Julius Caesar, a ruler so renowned that his name became the title for rulers. throughout the history of the world, whether that was the Caesars of Rome or the Kaisers of Germany or the Tsars of Russia, they're all naming themselves after this guy. So clearly he's the greatest because if people remember your name and name themselves after you, that's the measure of greatness. But God doesn't measure things the way the world measures things. And God doesn't want us to measure things the way the world measures things. Jesus of Nazareth lived 2,000 years ago, born to parents who were poor. So poor they couldn't afford the standard offering for a firstborn son, but they had to bring two turtle doves or two pigeons. A carpenter. Stonemason, the word really means just someone who's building and constructing. It's a construction worker. A skilled tradesman, but not one of the elite skilled tradesmen like a goldsmith or a jeweler or a carver of wood. Just a basic builder guy. Grew up in a town so small it wasn't on any of the maps. He got a lot of followers throughout his earthly ministry Because he did miracles. He fed people. He healed people. So people lined up to get what they could get from Jesus. Get a healing. Get free food. But when push came to shove and they realized he wasn't going to raise up an army and become a conqueror like an Alexander the Great or a Julius Caesar, he wasn't going to overthrow the Romans, they said, ah, enough of this guy. We're tired of him. Give us Barabbas instead. And they called for him to be crucified. And seemingly his life ended. With the most painful and shameful death that human beings had invented to that point, Roman crucifixion, outside of the city walls, despised and rejected As our text says today. And yet this man, this man, not Alexander the Great, not Isaac Newton, not Julius Caesar, this man. is worshipped and adored by millions of people all over the world, in every corner of the world Because they have found in him what nothing in this world could ever give. No conquering army, no wealthy person. You know, Elon Musk recently became not just the wealthiest person in the world, but by some estimates, the wealthiest person in the history of the world. But wealth can't buy, armies can't conquer, science can't discover What Jesus secured for all who trust in him when he died on that cross. And so this symbol of Roman torture, this cross, this crucis that was so Awful that even in our English language, the highest level of pain that we can describe, we say it's excruciating And that means ex crucis, out of the cross. It's a level of pain and shame and humiliation, and yet the cross has been transformed by this man. To be the most powerful symbol of hope in the world. Even now secular organizations like the Red Cross. People see the Red Cross and they know there's help, there's hope. Huh? Wonder how they thought of a Red Cross. Jesus changed the whole world and secured for us something that no one else ever could, and so that we would know it was the work of God. So that we would know it was the plan of God and the purpose of God. God told us all about it seven centuries before he was born, centuries before there even was a Roman Empire. God told us all about what he would do. This fourth servant song in Isaiah divides into five stanzas. We're going to take a look at The first one today. The next actually the first two today. And then the next two next week, and then the final one. three in two weeks on our third sermon. Let me just give you a little overview of the whole before we dive in. There's there's five stanzas, five sections. They each have three verses. It's actually very structured and very beautiful poetry. So if you look at it, verses 13 to 15 of chapter 52 are the first section. They give you an overview and an introduction of the whole. The next three verses, 53, 1 to 3, and then 53, 4-6, and then 53, 7-9. Or the body. They give you the unfolding of what he did and how he did it. And then the final, 53, 10 to 12, that we'll look at in two weeks, is the summary. of what happens, of of the result, of the outcome of what he accomplished. Now we've been We've spent several sermons in Hebrew poetry. And if you've been here for any of those, hopefully you learned one thing about Hebrew poetry, and that is if you want to get the main point, where do you go? The middle. So the middle of the middle is verse 5 of chapter 53. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. That's what this song is really all about. So let's dig in to our first section. Begins with this introduction of the servant. Behold my servant. He shall act wisely. He shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted. That sounds great He was a wise person. He's high and lifted up and exalted. That's great. And then immediately there's this unexpected shift. And as many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance and his form beyond that of the children of mankind. So shall he sprinkle many nations. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him, for that which has not been told them they see. And that which they have not heard, they understand. This is really the introduction to the whole song. And it tells us that Christ is exalted. He is high and lifted up. By being marred, disfigured, despised, and rejected He accomplishes the sprinkling of many nations and the shutting of the mouths of many kings. What does that all that mean? Well, let's think about it. The first thing we see is that the servant acts wisely. That's a good opening line for us to consider right now as we're in Proverbs in the month of January. We've been thinking about wisdom all month. My servant shall act wisely. What does that mean? Well, again, how does the world define wisdom Well, a wise person knows how to get what they want, right? They're crafty, they're clever. They're a good negotiator. They know how to make a good deal. They know how to get what they want. Is that how God defines wisdom? No. God doesn't define anything the way the world defines it. God defines wisdom as a life lived according to God's will. A life lived in harmony with God's character Jesus came down from heaven not to do his own will, but to do the will of the Father who sent him. He said that his food was to do the will of him who sent him and to accomplish the work that he'd been given I am sure, humanly speaking, I am sure that Jesus the man as a human being would have loved to have been accepted and believed in and praised and Welcomed. He certainly wanted to be spared the agony of the cross. We know that from his prayer in the garden when he he agonized, which we'll talk about more next week. In his humanity, if he was self-seeking, Jesus wouldn't have signed up for any of this. But he wasn't self-seeking. He was seeking the two things that God is always seeking. And a life of wisdom is always lining up with these two things. What brings glory to God and what brings good to God's people? What brings glory to God and what brings good to God's people? The first question of our Westminster Shorter Catechism asks, what's the chief end of man, the one chief end of man? And it says the chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. These two things are really one thing. God is glorified in us by saving us, and we are satisfied eternally in Him. And Jesus accomplishes that. And our life, if we want to follow Jesus, should be on that same pathway. We should ask ourselves, not how do I avoid pain and maximize pleasure? Or how do I avoid loss and maximize profit? Or how do I advance my career? We should ask How has God called me, equipped me, gifted me, placed me, so that I can glorify Him and bring good to His people? Now, some of that might mean working hard at your job and getting promotions to get a good income, but not so that you can have a longer vacation in the Bahamas, so that you can invest. In the kingdom of God, and you can glorify God and bless his people. That's what Jesus did, and it cost him everything He was wise. He acted wisely. He acted obediently in all that he did. But then verse 13 says, he's high and lifted up and exalted. What does that mean that he's high and lifted up and exalted? Well, the phrase high and lifted up is intentional in Isaiah. It echoes back to something that Isaiah said earlier. Many, many, many chapters ago, in the vision that he had of the Lord in the temple in Isaiah 6. In Isaiah 6, verse 1 We read, In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up. And the train of his robe filled the temple by saying, the servant is high and lifted up and exalted, where earlier the Lord was high and lifted up. Isaiah's giving us a clue. The servant is the Lord. His exaltation is God's exaltation. Those things are connected. They're the same. But Jesus, in his earthly ministry, gave us an even clearer explanation of this phrase when he said in John 12, 32, I, when I am lifted out from the earth, will draw all people to myself. All nations. It's another way of putting that phrase, all people, all nations. So shall he sprinkle many nations. And John explains to us what he means when he says he showed, he said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So the lifting up of the servant in exaltation is through the lifting up of the servant on a cross to die. The moment when Jesus cried out, it is finished. The moment when he said, Into your hands I commit my spirit, and he breathed his last and he died, that was both The moment of his greatest humiliation and of his exaltation. It was the moment of his shame and of his glory. Because by becoming sin, he conquered sin. And by entering into death, he put himself in a position to defeat death, which we'll talk about next week. The cross turns everything upside down. Satan didn't see it coming. If he saw it coming, I don't think he would have entered into Judas Iscariot and prompted him to go and betray Jesus We're told very clearly on the night that Jesus was betrayed, Satan entered Judas Iscariot, and he went and he betrayed Jesus to the leaders for 30 pieces of silver. So here's Satan manipulating and conniving. How do I get rid of this Jesus? I can use this greedy guy who's in charge of the money. He'll do anything for money. This guy, he lives for money. 30 pieces of silver? Yeah, I'll betray my Lord. And so Satan was an instrument in his own defeat. Satan was used by God, used by Jesus, that's acting wisely. He was used by Jesus to undo his own reign of terror over God's people. On that cross, Colossians tells us, Jesus triumphed over Satan through the cross. But it didn't come easily. Verse 14 tells us what this cost him. As many were astonished at you. His appearance was so marred beyond human semblance and his form beyond that of the children of mankind. Jesus was shockingly disfigured by the torment of the cross. There was a physical disfigurement and there was also a spiritual disfigurement as well It's easier for us to to to understand and to grasp the physical disfigurement, which was real. He was beaten by a Roman cat of nine tails. Until he was bloodied and disfigured, his back and sides and shoulders ripped open There was a crown of thorns pressed upon his head until blood ran down on his face. He was dehydrated, he was thirsty and weak so much so that he couldn't carry his own cross, but he collapsed in agony. He was marred beyond all human semblance, but even greater than that physical disfigurement, far greater, in fact Is what 2 Corinthians 5. 21 tells us, and what will be our focus next week, is that God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. As it is written, cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. God put the curse of our sin on Jesus And that's why Jesus on the cross cried out, before he cried out, it is finished, he cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Jesus was the most God-forsaken, cursed person in the history of the world, and he did it to save you and me. By taking our place. We'll look at that more next week. And yet, verse 15 tells us that it's by this means. So, so shall he sprinkle many nations by being on the cross, crucified under Pontius Pilate He sprinkles many nations. What does that mean? Well, in the Old Testament sacrificial system, God gave us a picture of what he describes here. So even hundreds of years before this passage, he gave his people a picture And that is, when atonement was made on the Day of Atonement, blood was shed, a hyssop branch, a little scrub brush, was dipped into the blood, and it was sprinkled on the people. Imagine coming to church and having me kill an animal, pour out its blood, get some in a bowl, dip a scrubby little plant in it, and sprinkle it on you. Aren't you glad Jesus died on the cross enough to do that anymore? I sure am. But it's a cleansing It's a forgiving and of course Hebrews tells us the blood of bulls and goats can never take away sin. The animal is not a willing sacrifice. The animal is not a sinlessly perfect person. The animal is not the son of God. He's just a picture of the son. of what Jesus did. But Jesus sprinkles many nations. And that's good news because most of us here are not Jewish. Some are. But most of us here, we're in the Gentiles. We're in the many nations. We're the outsiders. But he sprinkles many nations so that even a descendant of Ignorant, illiterate, human sacrificing, tree worshiping pagans like me Can be sprinkled by the blood of Jesus and cleansed. And this shuts the mouths of kings. Because what they had not been told they see, and what they had not heard, they understood. Jesus did what no one would have guessed. Oh yeah, there are other stories of gods who become man take on human form because they love a woman and want to have a child, like if you just have read the um Percy Jackson books, you know about that sort of part of mythology, right? But the idea of God taking on full humanity so that he could willingly suffer and die. For the sins of his people to save them is something that never entered into the imagination of anyone. No one ever thought of that. No one ever thought, this seems like a thing that God will do. No God punishes sin, God rewards obedience, that's how it works. But here, what people never thought of, what people never dreamed of. So one of the reasons why I'm encouraged in the truth of Christianity is that at its heart there are truths That no human being would ever make up. No one would make up the Trinity. It just is mind-blowing. It doesn't even make any sense to us. And yet that's how God is, and that's how God reveals Himself. And no one would ever tell the story of of the great God of the universe becoming man so that he could suffer and die for the sins of his people and then rise again victorious. But God did it. And God did it in such a way that nations and kings throughout the centuries have been humiliated, have been stunned, have been silenced, and have been saved by the grace of this one. It's happened again and again in nation after nation, kingdom after kingdom, except not everywhere. Chapter 53 begins, Who has believed what he heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed, for he grew up before him as a young plant. and as a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised, rejected by men, a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Even though Jesus has come and done this work of salvation, even though nations have been sprinkled and kings have had their mouths shut still, the default mode of the world is Man, that's come on. Get real. You Christians just live in your fantasy world. Of fairy tales and make-believe, of dying and rising gods, you don't know the difference between mythology and reality. Why don't you live in the real world? That's the default mode of our culture. But God told us that would be the case. Who has believed? What he's heard from us? Well, the next question really answers it. To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? If you do believe If you are here and you know that it's Jesus' death and resurrection that is the forgiveness of your sins and your eternal life, that is because God has revealed that to you. Just like Jesus said to Peter when he said, Peter, who do you say that I am? And he said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus said, Blessed are you, Simon, son of John, because flesh and blood hasn't revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. If you know Jesus as your Savior, praise God because He's revealed the arm of the Lord to you, the Lord Jesus Christ. And be thankful. Because there was nothing in Jesus that the world in its system had a category for or was prepared to accept. He was a root out of dry ground. I love that expression. He was a root out of dry ground. What does that mean? Well, there were hundreds of years of silence. From God before Jesus came into the world. The last Old Testament prophet, Malachi, was about 400 years before Jesus. There was no fresh word from God. The worship of God's people, they no longer bowed down before Baals and Asheras and idols, but they had settled into a very dry, a very legalistic a very self-righteous, a very proud worship. Their hearts were not tender. They were not really seeking the Lord. It was dry ground. And yet Jesus came up as a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, no beauty that we should desire him. You ever wonder, like when people met Jesus in the gospel, you read the gospels and just think, People met him, talked to him, interacted with him, and they just sort of went along their way, most of them They didn't say, oh, the Son of God, whoa! Every once in a while, like we learned about in Sunday school this morning, when he does something amazing like calming the storm or walking on the water, his disciples, who spent all their time with him, were like Wow! He's the Son of God. We should worship him. Like, well, duh, you've been with him every moment and every day for like a year now. You didn't see that until now? No. Why? Because Jesus didn't walk around the way he's depicted in some paintings with a glowing halo around his head and light beams shooting out of his eyes. He was a normal human being by all outward appearances. He was humble. He looked like any other itinerant rabbi from Galilee. Galilee. That's like the West Virginia of the ancient world Or Western Pennsylvania or something like that. Ooh Or Dundalk or something like that. Not respected, not revered, just trying to make sure you're awake and paying attention. But Jesus came and he was despised and rejected. Even before he went to the cross, he had no beauty that would make people say, this is clearly the guy. You know what happens when the world says, this is clearly the guy? You know what happens? You get a King Saul. Right? Here I'll pick on myself for a minute. The world has a tendency to look at tall people and say, whoa, it's a tall person. This means I hit my head a lot. Have a hard hard time finding clothes to fit. But Saul was head and shoulders taller than anybody else in all of Israel. They said, there's the guy who's supposed to be king But he was faithless. David was the runt of the litter, the one his father even overlooked, forgot to bring in from the sheep. But he was a man after God's own heart. So this is, I think, application. We are called to follow Jesus. Jesus says follow me. He says, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, let him take up his cross, and let him follow me. If you believe in Jesus You're called to follow him. What does that mean? Well, it means a couple of things practically in our lives that I want us, I believe the Lord wants us to hear, all of us to hear. One. Blessings from God often, perhaps most often, don't come the way we would expect. Sometimes winning the lottery is a judgment and a test, and it ruins people's lives. And sometimes struggling through cancer or joblessness is a blessing where God is strengthening your faith and deepening your dependence upon Him. Don't judge the providence of God, the ways of God, the blessings of God by what your eyes see or by how the world would understand it. Second is don't seek glory from the world. We're all tempted to do it in small ways or big. We want other people to like us. We want other people to think that we're great, that we're smart, that we're clever, that we're attractive, whatever. Don't go chasing those things, because if you go chasing those things, you get yourself into a world of hurt. There have been pastors who've crashed their ministries and their marriages and their lives because they've been chasing after the acclaim of the world. There's also been a lot of times when Christians get timid and shut down and don't share the gospel because they don't want to be looked at as being dumb or backwards or or one of those people. Don't live for the glory of the world. Jesus didn't. He had his eyes firmly fixed on the glory of his Father. We need to live for the glory of God and for the good of others. And we need to be so, so grateful. We'll focus more on this next week, but I think one of the central things we need to get from this message, from this passage. Is that God in His love and wisdom and power has come together to do for us what we could never hope to do in a million lifetimes of trying. Systems that believe in some form of reincarnation are like, oh, you didn't do quite good enough this time. We'll give you another lifetime to try it. Oh, you didn't quite get it good this time. We'll give you another lifetime to try it. And if you ever get good enough, then you'll be graduated out of this world. You can give me all the lifetimes of all the time of the universe, and I ain't never getting it right. And nobody is. There's no one righteous, not even one. But God in his love and power and wisdom has done for us what we could never do for ourselves because he really does love us that much and that confidence ought to carry us through whatever it is we're facing day by day. As Romans 8 says, He who did not spare his own son, but freely gave him up for us all, how will he not, along with him, graciously give us all good things? So don't look at your circumstances and try to judge them from outward appearances as to whether God is blessing you or cursing you, mad at you, happy. God loves you. God has done everything to save you. God is for you. He seeks his glory and your good. And don't look for approval from the world. Just keep your eyes on Jesus. Will we answer that call? Will we live life that way? By faith and not by sight, for his glory and not for our own. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you. Thank you for the gift of salvation that comes through Jesus alone. Thank you that in Him we've been given righteousness, peace, forgiveness, eternal life, adoption, inheritance, security, love, freely. Let us walk following Jesus, seeking your glory, seeking the good of your people, seeking to give you praise and give you trust every day of our lives. We pray this Father in Jesus' name. Amen.