Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church So good to be with you as we wrap up our 24th week together. We're also wrapping up Luke chapter 9, looking at verses 49 to 62, and asking, what excuses keep people From following Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Please teach us from your word that we might see and know and love Jesus better, that we might walk with Him by faith Follow him closely and glorify you with our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 9, verses 49 to 62. John answered, Master We saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him because he does not follow with us. But Jesus said to him, Do not stop him, for the one who is not against you is for you. When the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face to go to Jerusalem. And he sent his messengers ahead of him, who went and entered a village of the Samaritans, to make preparations for him But the people did not receive him, because his face was set toward Jerusalem. And when his disciples, James and John, saw it, they said, Lord, do you want us to tell fire to come down from heaven and consume them? But he turned and rebuked them, and they went on to another village. As they were going along the road, someone said to him, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. To another he said, Follow me But he said, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead, but as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God. Yet another said, I will follow you, Lord, but let me first say farewell to those at my home. Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. The call from Jesus is as simple and clear as it is firm and uncompromising. Follow me. Earlier in the Gospel of Luke, we saw Matthew leave his tax collecting table and other disciples leave their fishing nets to follow Jesus. They understood the call and they left. their livelihoods, their families, their homes, and their comfortable lives to follow Jesus. That's the way everyone should respond to Jesus' call, but not everyone does. Today we see three people make three different excuses for not following Jesus. Each of these people chose something over Jesus and their choices can help us understand what often competes in our own hearts with the call of Jesus. First of all, comfort. The first person said to Jesus, I will follow you wherever you go. But when Jesus told him the truth that the Son of Man has no place to lay his head, then he didn't follow Jesus He was willing to follow Jesus wherever as long as it involved a comfortable place to sleep at night. How often do we choose a comfortable life over following Jesus? Secondly, not now. The second person was called by Jesus to follow him, but he responded, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. His father was probably not already dead, and so the young man's request was that Jesus give him time until his father died and was buried. How often do we delay obedience, putting off real discipleship until a more convenient time? Third, family and friends. The third and final person in today's passage responds to Jesus' call by saying, I will follow you, Lord, but let me first say farewell to those at my home. Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. This person wanted to spend more time with family and friends. How often do we turn back from following Jesus for the sake of getting along and spending time with friends and family, especially those who are not following Jesus? If we allow ourselves to be distracted or delayed, almost anything in life will keep us from fully following Jesus We will neglect church, time in prayer, obedience, evangelism for the sake of comfort, for the sake of other priorities or other people. This passage should be sobering for us. Jesus does not agree to a single excuse or other priority. His call is uncompromising. Eternal life. The kingdom of God, the abundant life, knowing God, living in His will, how valuable are these? How valuable is Jesus to us, really? He is calling. Follow me. How will we respond? Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 119, picking up in verse 41 from where we left off yesterday. At the head of each one of these groups of eight verses, each one of these stanzas is a Hebrew letter. So today we're doing Baob and then Zion. I'm not reading the names of these Hebrew letters because it's Hebrew and that doesn't mean anything to you, but just know that in the original Hebrew, each one of these stanzas Each line within the stanza begins with that Hebrew letter. It's not really reflected in our English translations. It would be impossible to try to do so. But so I'm just kind of skipping over the names of those letters, but that's how the original psalm is structured. Let your steadfast love come to me, O Lord, your salvation according to your promise. Then I shall have an answer for him who taunts me, for I trust in your word. And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for my hope is in your rules. I will keep your law continually, for ever and ever, and I shall walk in a wide place, for I have sought your precepts. I will also speak of your testimonies before kings, and I shall not be put to shame, for I find my delight in your commandments, which I love. I will lift up my hands toward your commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes. Remember your word to your servant. in which you have made me hope, this is my comfort in my affliction, that your promise gives me life. The insolent utterly deride me, but I do not turn away from your law. When I think of your rules from of old, I take comfort, O Lord. Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked who forsake your law. Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourning. I remember your name in the night, O Lord, and keep your law. This blessing has fallen to me, that I have kept your precepts. The Lord is my portion. I promise to keep your words. I entreat your favor with all my heart. Be gracious to me according to your promise. When I think on my ways, I turn my feet to your testimonies. I hasten and do not delay to keep your commandments. Though the cords of the wicked ensnare me, I do not forget your law At midnight I rise to praise you because of your righteous rules. I am a companion of all who fear you, of those who keep your precepts. The earth, O Lord, is full of your steadfast love. Teach me your statutes You have dealt well with your servant, O Lord, according to your word. Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. You are good and do good. Teach me your statutes. The insolence smear me with lies, but with my whole heart I keep your precepts. Their heart is unfeeling like fat, but I delight in your law. It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces. Your hands have made and fashioned me. Give me understanding that I may learn your commandments. Those who fear you shall see me and rejoice, because I have hoped in your word. I know, O Lord, that your rules are righteous, and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me. Let your steadfast love comfort me, according to your promise to your servant. Let your mercy come to me that I might live, for your law is my delight. Let the insolent be put to shame, because they have wronged me with falsehood. As for me, I will meditate on your precepts. Let those who fear you turn to me, that they may know your testimonies. May my heart be blameless in your statutes, that I may not be put to shame. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we need your mercy. We need your promise. We need your steadfast love. For these are the things that give us life And then your law and your instruction and your precepts, they give direction to our lives. So give us life. By your mercy, by your promise, by your steadfast love, which are all fulfilled in Christ, and then set the direction of our lives by the goodness of your commands. That we love you with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, that we love our neighbor as ourselves and keep us from excuses. These excuses are designed to detract, to derail us. To sideline us from walking in your paths of righteousness. Keep us from being deceived And being waylaid by the schemes of our enemy. May we honor you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for another day of walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope you have a wonderful weekend and are able to worship together with God's people on the Lord's Day. Have a blessed day in the Lord.