Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you as we are in our 959th day In the Word of God and in Ezekiel chapter 6, let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is truth, for you are truth And when you speak, all your ways are holy and righteous and true. Speak to us today through Ezekiel 6. May the words of this prophet Come to our hearts with the power of the Holy Spirit to challenge us and change us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel chapter 6. The word of the Lord came to me, son of man Set your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them and say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to the mountains and the hills, to the ravines and the valleys, behold, I, even I will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places. Your altars shall become desolate, and your incense altars shall be broken, and I will cast down your slain before your idols. And I will lay the dead bodies of the people of Israel before their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars. Wherever you dwell, the cities shall be waste, and the high places ruined, so that your altars will be waste and ruined your idols broken and destroyed, your incense altars cut down, and your works wiped out, and the slain shall fall in your midst, and you shall know that I am the Lord. Yet I believe he's still you're alive. Oops. Jump D continu Yet I will leave some of you alive, when you have among the nations, some who escaped the sword, when you are scattered through the countries Then those of you who escape will remember me among the nations where they are carried captive, how I have been broken over their whoring heart. that has departed from me, and over their eyes that go whoring after their idols, and they will be loathsome in their own sight for the evils they have committed, for all their abominations. And they shall know that I am the Lord. I have not said in vain that I will do evil to them Thus says the Lord God, clap your hands and stomp your foot and say, Alas, because of all the evil abominations of the house of Israel, for they shall fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence He who is far off shall die by pestilence, and he who is near shall fall by the sword, and he who is left and is preserved shall die by famine. Thus I will spend my fury upon them And you shall know that I am the Lord, when their slain lie among their idols, around their altars on every high hill on all the mountaintops, under every green tree, and under every leafy oak, wherever they offered pleasing aroma to all their idols, and I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land desolate and waste in all the their dwelling places, from the wilderness to Riblah, then they will know that I am the Lord. That is Ezekiel chapter 6. Again, it's a word against idolatry It seems strange the way this chapter opens. Set your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them and say, You mountains of Israel. hear the word of the Lord God. I mean, what did the mountains do? They're just mountains. Weren't they created by God and set there by God? Well, what he's talking about is not the mountains themselves, but the activities that took place on the mountains, much like people today would talk about Wall Street. Oh, all that garbage that happens down on Wall Street. They don't they don't mean that they're mad at Wall Street like the street itself. Like it's poorly paved or, you know, immoral the street itself. It's what's being done there in the buying and selling and trading and stuff. So here, it's the activities that are done on mountains. And the mountains were where they would worship idols. And there were two forms of idolatry that took place on the mountains of Israel. There were false gods that were worshipped. They would set up statues of Baal and Asherah and other the Canaanite gods that they had adopted, even though the Lord told them very clearly not to. But the other thing they would do is they would worship the Lord. They would worship Yahweh. on these mountains. And sometimes they would make images of Yahweh. And they would set them up on these mountains. Or they would make other altars other than the altar that was in the temple where they were called to worship. So it was both the worship of false gods, and it was the false worship of the true God. And what's in common between both of these forms of idolatry is that people were going up on the mountain to try to be close to the God in order to get what they wanted from the God. Idolatry is a very transactional thing. If I make this sacrifice, then the God will give me this. It's a very transactional relationship This God is in charge of this area of life and he demands this kind of sacrifice in order to get this kind of benefit. It's kind of like going shopping for rain or for fertility. You have to pay the price. And sometimes if you think the God is mad at you, you have to pay a higher price The temple worship was completely different. Because the temple worship set up by God, instituted by God, It was a picture of the gospel, of how God comes to us and pays the penalty and cleanses us and draws us to himself. It's not high on a mountain. It was set on you know Mount Moriah, but it's actually surrounded by higher mountains. Because if there's a superstitious idea that the higher you go, like you're going all the way back to like the Tower of Babel, the higher you go, the closer you are to God. So whenever worship becomes driven by two things. What's in it for me? How do I get what I want? Right? Selfishness And also the second one, superstition, what seems right to me? What makes sense to me as a human being? So selfishness and superstition or a what's in it for me mentality and a what makes sense to me mentality. When worship is driven by those two things, it is not pleasing to God, even if it is God you are trying to worship. God lays out in his word how he is to be worshipped, with reverence and fear, with awe, with wonder, with sincerity in truth, in spirit and in truth. What matters is what has God said about himself, how has re-he revealed himself, how does he draw us to himself And that is through the Word and through the Spirit and through the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, you can put on a great show that would really entertain people You can have people come in and say, wow, this is so cool. The lights and the sound and the smoke effects and this is like professional quality concert. That is what's in it for me and what makes sense to me It's the exact same kind of worship that was done on these mountains. And what am I getting out of it? And does it make sense from a human perspective? Instead, we should be going saying, I need God. What I need is God, not stuff from God, not a feeling or an experience. Of being entertained or being inspired, I need to meet with God. And to meet with God, I need to be sincere in prayer and praise. I need to hear His word preached. I need to believe and I need to meet with him on his terms. That is true worship that honors God. And the other kind of worship is not honoring to God. God is so upset at this false worship that is self-centered and superstitious or that is driven by what's in it for me and what makes sense to me. He's so upset by that that he devastates the nation that he loves. And he does it in love. He's going to leave some of them alive, and he's going to scatter them so that when they're scattered, verse 10, and they shall know that I am the Lord. Verse nine, they will be loathsome in their own sight for the evils that they've committed, for all their abominations God is so committed to the ultimate good of his people that he will discipline us even severely to lead us to repentance and faith. To abhor the evils of our abominations and to know that He is the Lord. That's repentance and faith. That's what the Lord wants. That's what is good for us. That draws us away from the idols of the world, away from selfishness, away from superstition, and to the Lord who is our God. But Going under every leafy green oak and going up on every high hill To try to get what you want out of life by gaming the system, by programming the right outcome. That is not pleasing to God. So what's our takeaway? Let us worship God in spirit and in truth. Biblically, in holiness, in reverent fear, in faith, in sincerity. Not seeking what's in it for me, but seeking God Himself And when God exposes our idols in our lives, let us respond with repentance and faith To turn away from the things that are an abomination to God. They should be an abomination to us. And to turn to the Lord. Let's pray. Father, you are good. You are holy. You are righteous in all your ways. You are worthy of our worship. You are the one true and living God. And you've told us how you are to be sought in prayer, in the word In in rightly ordered biblical spirit and truth worship, may we do so. May we do so day by day in our personal lives and week by week together with your church That you might be glorified in us, that we might be satisfied in you, and that we might faithfully reflect you to the world around us We pray all of this, Heavenly Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Ezekiel 6. Tomorrow I think we're going back to Revelation. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.