Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Oak Presbyterian Church. I hope you're having a good day. It's our 995th day together in God's Word, and we are here in Ezekiel chapter 30, continuing this section on Egypt. We had a prophecy against Egypt and now a lament for Egypt. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this word. Your word is wonderful. You alone have the words of eternal life. You speak the truth to us. By your spirit, you can help us understand and apply your truth to our lives. So please come, Holy Spirit. Illuminate our minds to understand your word. Help us to receive it by faith. Help us to live it in love. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Ezekiel chapter 30. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. Prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord God, wail, alas, for the day For the day is near, the day of the Lord is near. It will be a day of clouds, a day of doom for the nations, a sword. shall come upon Egypt, and anguish shall be in Cush when the slain fall in Egypt, and her wealth is carried away, and her foundations are torn down. Cush and put and Lud, and all Arabia and Libya and the people of the land that is in League shall fall with them by the sword. Thus says the Lord, those who support Egypt shall fall, and her proud might shall come down from Migdal to Syene. They shall fall within her by the sword, declares the Lord God. And they shall be desolated in the midst of desolated countries. And their cities shall be in the midst of cities that are laid waste Then they will know that I am the Lord, when I have set fire to Egypt, and all her helpers are broken. On that day messengers shall go out from me in ships. to terrify the unsuspecting people of Cush, and anguish shall come upon them on the day of Egypt's doom, for behold, it comes. Thus says the Lord God, I will put an end. To the wealth of Egypt by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar King of Babylon, he and his people with him, the most ruthless of nations, shall be brought in to destroy the land, and they shall draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the slain. And I will dry up the Nile. And will sell the land into the hand of evildoers. I will bring desolation upon the land, and everything in it by the hand of foreigners I am the Lord. I have spoken. Thus says the Lord God, I will destroy the idols and put an end to the images in Memphis. There shall no longer be a prince from the land of Egypt, so I will put fear in the land of Egypt. I will make Pothros a desolation and will set fire to Zoan. and will execute judgments on thieves. And I will pour out my wrath on Pelesium, the stronghold of Egypt, and cut off the multitude of thieves, and I will set fire to Egypt. Pelesium shall be in great agony, Thebes shall be breached, and Memphis shall face enemies by day. The young men of Awn and P. Beseth shall fall by the sword, and the women shall go into captivity. At Tophanees The day shall be dark when I break there the yoke bars of Egypt, and her proud might shall come to an end in her. She shall be covered by a cloud, and her daughters shall go into captivity. Thus I will execute judgments on Egypt. Then they will know that I am the Lord. In the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. I have broken the arm of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and behold, it has not been bound up to heel it by binding it with a bandage, so that it might become strong to wield the sword. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am against Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and will break his arms, both the strong arm and the one that was broken. And I will make the sword fall from his hand. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them through the countries, and I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put my sword into his hand. But And I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he will groan before him like a man mortally wounded. I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but the arms of Pharaoh shall fall. Then they shall know that I am the Lord. When I put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he stretches it out against the land of Egypt, and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them throughout the countries, then they will know. that I am the Lord. You know, we take for granted chapter after chapter of prophecy given through these prophets where the Lord God Almighty Israel's God, Judah's God, Jerusalem's God, Yahweh, the great I am, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that he is speaking here, and he is speaking specific words of prophecy. Telling what will come about and saying that he is the one who will bring it about. This is a direct challenge. To our modern naturalistic way of thinking. It's also a direct challenge to the way of thinking that was common in the ancient Near East, where everybody thought local countries had their local gods. And, you know, the gods of Babylon could not necessarily foretell what was going to happen to Egypt, and the gods of uh the Philistines couldn't necessarily foretell what was going to happen to the Ammonites. because they were just sort of local deities who had control over a a small area. So whether it's the polytheistic worldview of the ancient Near East or our modern secular naturalistic worldview, chapters like this of Of clear, specific prophecy are a challenge because they tell us that there is one true God. The Lord God Almighty, that He sits on His throne in heaven, that He rules over the kingdoms of men, that He does as He pleases. It also challenges us because you could look at it from a human perspective and you could say, the Babylonians, well, they were evil. They did all sorts of terrible things. Is God the author of evil? Well, no. Is God saying that when they do horribly wicked things, that he's in favor of that? No. But God does use even human wickedness to accomplish his good and just purposes. Egypt was being condemned, disciplined, by the Lord because they had repeatedly failed. to keep their word that they had given in alliances and treaties that they had made with Israel, going back, really going back by this time hundreds of years to the days of Solomon, when Solomon married Pharaoh's daughter. and entered into that first peace treaty alliance. Um now the Lord when speaking to Judah and Israel condemned those peace treaty alliances. And said you shouldn't be looking to Egypt for horses and chariots and relying on them, you should rely on me, the Lord. But Egypt is still held accountable for the fact that they made promises and did not keep them. They made oaths of support. They received money and they did not keep them. So they're being disciplined. Now, later Babylon's going to be disciplined. They're going to be judged because they've done wrong. Well, this cycle of the Lord judging nations for doing wrong It's sort of an endless cycle until it really cries out for a day of final justice. when there will be the complete elimination of all evil because Egypt was replaced by Babylon, was replaced by the Medo Persians, was replaced by the Greeks, was replaced by the Romans, was replaced by the Islamic empires, was replaced by the Byzantine and Holy Roman Empires were replaced by, you know, the Napoleonic Empire and the British Empire and the Nazi German Empire and There's just been huge world conquering, war causing, death bringing empires and and and kingdoms and civilizations throughout the whole of human history. There has to come a day when God says, I am in control. And I have had enough. And not only am I going to judge all the nations, but I'm going to be a final end to all of this. And this is where all of this is going. So when we say in verses 1 and 2, Son of Man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord, wail. Alas for the day, for the day is near, the day of the Lord is near. It shall be a day of clouds and a time of dew for the nations. You see, verses two and three there are not just referring to Egypt being destroyed by Babylon, but to the day of the Lord. That will be a time of doom for the nations, because every nation, America, Russia, China All the nations have committed acts of immorality, injustice, and they're all going to be judged because there's one king who reigns supreme above all the kings. And Revelation tells us we saw it when we were in Revelation, every single person who's ever lived will stand before the holy and just judge and will give an account. So the Lord is sovereign over the affairs of nations within time, but that's always a relative justice. And there's always evil in the world because the problem is with human hearts and with the presence of sin in a fallen creation. But one day the Lord will bring that to an end as well. So, what does that mean for us? It means for us not to put down too deeper roots in this world, but rather make sure that our roots are deeply planted in the soil of God's Word In the kingdom of God, that our heart loyalty is strong to King Jesus, because he's the only truly righteous King His kingdom is the only truly righteous kingdom, and he will judge the nations and all people, and his kingdom will know no end. The kingdoms of this world, they will become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you've made us part of your eternal kingdom. Ancient Egypt is no more. Ancient Babylon is no more. Ancient Persia is no more. All the kingdoms of men are temporary. America is a temporary human kingdom. We should not put down too deeper roots, or have a loyalty that's too strong, to that which in the end opposes you and must be brought to an end We love you because you first loved us. We belong to you because you've redeemed us. We are yours because you've made us your own. And we thank you for that grace. Help us to love you and serve you every day of our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that is Ezekiel 30. Tomorrow we're starting a new New Testament book. We're going to be looking at the book of 2 Corinthians, starting with 2 Corinthians 1 tomorrow. I hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord, a day of living. For the kingdom of Jesus