Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day number 1000 1,000 Days Together in the Word of God, and we are here in Ezekiel 33. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for bringing us to this milestone. 1,000 Days Together. in your word day by day over these past three years. We pray that you would bless this day and that we would be focused on Ezekiel 33 and that your Spirit would help us to understand understand and receive. You would write these words in our hearts, that you would draw us close to Christ, that you would make us better listeners, hearers, and doers of your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Ezekiel 33. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, speak to your people and say to them, If I bring the sword upon a land, And the people of the land take a man from among them and make him their watchman. And if he sees the sword coming upon the land and blows the trumpet and warns the people, then if anyone Who hears the sound of the trumpet does not take warning, and the sword comes and takes him away, his blood shall be upon his own head. He heard the sound of the trumpet and did not take warning. His blood shall be upon himself. But if he had taken warning, he would have saved his life. But if the watchman sees the sword coming and does not blow the trumpet. Trumpets, so that the people are not warned, and the sword comes and takes away any of them. That person is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at the watchman's hand. So you, Son of Man I have made a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me. If I say to the wicked, O wicked one, you shall surely die, and you do not speak to warn the wicked to turn from his way, that wicked person shall die. in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand. But if you warn the wicked to turn from his way, and he does not turn from his way, that person shall die in his iniquity. But you will have delivered your soul. And you, Son of Man, say to the house of Israel, Thus have you said, Surely our transgressions and our sins are upon us, and we rot away because of them How then can we live? Say to them, as I live, declares the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn back from his way and live Turn back from your evil ways, for why will you die, O house of Israel? And you, Son of Man, say to your people, The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him when he transgresses? And as for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall by it when he turns from his wickedness, and the righteous shall not be able to live by his righteousness when he sins. Though I say to the righteous that he shall surely live, yet if he turns in his righteousness and does injustice, none of his righteous deeds shall be remembered, but in his injustice that he has done he shall die. Again, though I say to the wicked, you shall surely die, and yet if he turns from his sin and does what is just and right, if the wicked restores the pledge, gives back what he has taken by robbery, and walks in in the statutes of life, not doing injustice, he shall surely live. He shall not die. None of his sins that he has committed shall be remembered against him. He has done what is just and right. He shall surely die. Yet your people say the way of the Lord is not just, but it is their own way that is not just. When the righteous turns from his righteousness and does injustice, he shall die for it. And when the wicked turns from his wickedness and does what is just and right, he shall live by this. Yet you say the way of the Lord is not just. O house of Israel, I will judge each of you according to his ways. In the twelfth year of our exile, in the tenth month, on the fifth day of the month, a fugitive from Jerusalem came to me and said, The city has been struck down. Now the hand of the Lord had been upon me the evening before the fugitive came, and he had opened my mouth by the time the man came to me in the morning, so my mouth was open, and I I was no longer mute. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, the inhabitants of these waste places in the land of Israel kept keep saying Abraham was only one man, yet he got possession of the land, but we are many. The land is surely given us to possess. Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord God. You eat flesh with the blood, and lift up your eyes to your idols and shed blood. Shall you then possess the land? You rely on the sword, you commit abominations, and each of you defiles his neighbor's wife. Shall you then possess the land? Say this to them. Thus says the Lord God, as I live, surely those who are in the waste places shall fall by the sword. And whoever is in the open field I will give to the beasts to be devoured, and those who are in strongholds and in caves shall die by pestilence, and I will make the land a desolation and a waste And her proud might shall come to an end, and the mountains of Israel shall be so desolate that none will pass through. Then they will know that I am the Lord, when I have made the land a desolation and waste place, because of all their abominations that they have committed. As for you, Son of Man. Your people who talk together about you by the walls and at the doors of the houses say to one another, each to his brother, Come and hear what the word is that comes comes from the Lord, and they come to you as a people come, and they sit before you as my people, and they hear what you say, but they will not do it. For with lustful talk in their mouths they act, their heart is set on their gain, and behold, you are to them like one who sings lustful songs with a beautiful voice and plays well on an instrument. For they hear what you say, but they will not do it. When this comes, and come it will, then they will know that a prophet has been Well that is Ezekiel thirty-three, which has thirty-three verses. It's a very fitting place to be on day one thousand of our three year journey through the Word of God. And it's very fitting as well that it's the follow-up from yesterday's um devotional in 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Because what we have here is really Ezekiel's equivalent call and commission to what Paul was reflecting on yesterday in 2 Corinthians. When Paul says, you know, who is sufficient for these things? We are commissioned by God and we we speak in Christ in the sight of God. And we have to be men of sincerity. We're not peddlers of the Word of God. That's exactly what Ezekiel is doing. Ezekiel's been called and commissioned by God to be a watchman. And the watchman has a very specific job, and that is you hear something, you see something that the Lord has shown you, you had better be faithful to proclaim it. You can't tell people what they want to hear because you'll be held accountable before God for conveying the message as it is given. And so for the modern day pastor. We're not prophets, we're not getting new words from God, we're not seeing new insights, but we're given the word of God. And we're ministers, servants of the word. And we have to say what God's Word says. So we've been going through every chapter of the Bible. We've gone through a thousand of them now. And we we go through and we say, what does this say? What does this mean? What does this mean for us? How should we respond to this? And the the standard is to be Sincere, faithful to God. Because it's God's word for God's people. And I know that I will be held accountable before God God for how I have handled his word and what I have done with the message that he has given me. And so um We we need to be faithful above all else. And that's my prayer that I would be faithful to speak. And not be a man fearer or a man pleaser. That's those are the two traps you fall into. You become afraid of people and what they might do to you, how they might dislike you or disregard you or reject you. I mean Jeremiah's having an even harder time back in Jerusalem than Ezekiel's having here in exile, but neither one of them are particularly popular guys. But you become a man fearer or you become a man pleaser or a people pleaser. You want people to like you, and so you'll say what you think people want to hear so that they'll like you. Neither one of those is acceptable. Must be a God fearer and a God pleaser. You cannot fear and please God and also try to fear and please people. No one can serve two masters, Jesus said. And so the call of the watchman is a call to be faithful. So you hear the sound of the trumpet and you speak. And then acting this out Ezekiel has this hard word for the people, and that is you have to live what you're being told. To put it in New Testament terms, James, in the book of James, said Be you doers of the word and not hearers only. Someone who only hears the word is like a man who looks at himself in the mirror and walks away from the word Here he's saying you you might have a reputation for righteousness, you might you might be obedient to God, but then you're given an opportunity to engage in some great wickedness and you go for it and you turn aside and you abandon the Lord. And you go on this path of wickedness. Well if you die then that's on you. Or you may be a wicked person who's shunning God and you turn And you repent and you believe and you obey and then you will live. Now, is this teaching salvation by works? Obviously, the gospel, as we understand it in Jesus Christ, the gospel justification By grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone is not clear in this passage. But is this teaching a salvation by works? No. It really is talking about faith and what faith does. In many ways this is like harmonizing the difference between how the Apostle Paul speaks about justification by faith in Romans and Galatians, and then what James says about justification by faith. We'll be getting into the book of James later this year. It's one of the of the last books will be in, I think in December sometime. But James isn't contradicting Paul, and Ezekiel here isn't contradicting the gospel of salvation by grace through faith, but rather it's what does faith do? Faith pleases God. Do we do so perfectly? No. Nowhere is there a standard of perfect righteousness, nor is it saying that our own righteousness is going to save us, but rather our obedience to the Word of God will show that we have true faith. And we believe that those who have true faith will persevere in that faith to the end. Those who don't have true faith will make a show of having faith, but then fall away. This is apostasy. Apostasy is a real thing. And it is Showing evidence that there's no real faith. Whereas someone who's been living a l life of wickedness, if they turn and they trust in the Lord and they follow the Lord, that shows they do have truth. So it really is about the fruit of faith as seen in your life. And to confirm that, at um At the very end of this chapter, after the bad news comes about the fall of Jerusalem, Which they've been waiting for for years, for twelve years, Ezekiel's been saying Jerusalem's gonna fall. Jerusalem's gonna fall. Finally the news of Jerusalem falling comes. Then, the last paragraph of this chapter, the last couple verses, the Lord says to Ezekiel, You know, all these people, they come around to see you. Ezekiel was like a tourist attraction. He was like a local celebrity. Like, come see this guy who lays on his side for a year and bakes this weird bread over a cow dum. Come see this guy who makes holes in the wall and then acts like he's leaving in the middle of the night. Come see this guy who didn't even cry when his wife died. Like he's he this is a weird dude. He's a maker of parables. He's He's he's he's entertaining, he's he's fascinating to go see. And they would go and they would see and they would listen. Like they're going to see someone who has a beautiful voice and who plays well on an instrument. It's a show to them. They have no intention of doing what God says. Therefore, they don't have real faith. They're not doers of the word. But when the words of Ezekiel come true as they just have, when the words of Ezekiel come true, then they'll know that a prophet has been among them. And those words have come true. That's the paragraph right before is um the news came. That Jerusalem has been sacked. But still, you know what's amazing? Still, even after Jerusalem has been destroyed, there's some people who are out in the waste places of the land. We we see some of what they do with Jeremiah in in the book of Jeremiah when we were there. Still these people are saying, Oh well, Abraham was only one man and he took possession of the land which actually shows they don't know their Bible very well either, because Abraham didn't take possession of anything except for a cave in a field that he bought at a pretty high price. So even that level of knowledge of hey Abraham was only one man and he took possession of the land. Actually, no, he didn't. But Abraham was given a promise from God about the land. You have been given the judgment of God about the land. So they're not willing to heed the word of God. It's a big difference between hearing the Word of God and heeding the Word of God, between listening to the Word of God and and believing and responding in faith to the Word of God. And so that's, I think here on day 1000, here's our application. Some of you didn't join us on day one. This isn't day 1,000 for you. It might be day 200 or whatever it is. But however many days you've been hearing the word of God, I've been hearing the word of God, even as I speak it. Are we hearing it with just our ears and it's activating our brain cells and then it's forgotten? Or are we taking it to heart That we might live in response to what God is saying to us, that we might do the word. A thousand days of hearing the Word of God will not do us any good if we don't believe it and live it. Let's pray Father, you are faithful. You do not change. The word you gave to Ezekiel 2600 years ago Is the same as the word that comes to us today. And the call. It's a call not to just listen and be entertained. But to believe and respond in faith and obedience. May we do so, Father, to the glory of your name. In Jesus' name, we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for day 1000. There's 96 more days to go before the end of the year, I believe, if I'm doing my counting right. Have a blessed day in the Lord on this day.