Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church and on our 968th day together in the Word of God, we come today to Ezekiel chapter 12. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word, which is a blessing to us day by day. You're faithful. We thank you for your faithfulness. You are with us and you are for us in all things in Christ. So be our teacher and our guide today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel 12, the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. You dwell in the midst of a rebellious house, who have eyes to see but see not. who have ears to hear but hear not, for they are a rebellious house. As for you, son of man, prepare for yourself an exile's baggage, and go into exile by day in their sight. You shall go like an exile from your place to another place in their sight. Perhaps they will understand, though they are rebellious house. You shall bring out your baggage by day in their sight, as baggage for exile, and you shall go out yourself at evening in their sight, as those who do, as those do who must go into exile In their sight, dig through the wall, bring your baggage out through it. In their sight you shall lift the baggage upon your shoulder and carry it out at dusk. You shall cover your face that you may not see the land. For I have made you a sign to the house of Israel. And I did as I was commanded I brought up my baggage by day, as baggage for exile, and in the evening I dug through the wall with my own hands. I brought up my baggage at dusk, carrying it on my shoulder in their sight. In the morning the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, has not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, said to you, What are you doing? Say to them, Thus says the Lord God, this oracle concerns the prince in Jerusalem, and all the house of Israel who are in it. Say, I am a sign for you. As I have done, so shall it be done to them. They shall go into exile, into captivity, and the prince who is among them shall lift his baggage upon his shoulder at dusk and shall go out. They shall dig through the wall to bring him out through it. He shall cover his face, that he may not see the land with his eyes, and I will spread my net over him. And he shall be taken in my snare, and I will bring him to Babylon, the land of the Chaldeans, yet he shall not see it, and he shall die there. And I will scatter toward every wind all who are around him, his helpers and all his troops, and I will unsheathe the sword after them. And they shall know that I am the Lord when I disperse them among the nations and scatter them among the countries. But I will let a few of them escape from the sword, from famine and pestilence. that they may declare all their abominations among the nations where they go, and may know that I am the Lord. And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of man, eat your bread with quaking And drink your water with trembling and with anxiety. And say to the people of the land, Thus says the Lord God, concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the land of Israel, they shall eat their bread with anxiety, and drink water in dismay. In this way their land will be stripped of all it contains, on account of the violence of all those who dwell in it. And the inhabited city shall be laid waste, and the land shall become a desolation, and you shall know that I am I am the Lord. And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. What is this proverb that you have about the land of Israel saying, The days grow long, and every vision comes to nothing? Tell them, therefore, thus says the Lord God, I will put an end to this proverb, and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel, but say to them, The days are near. And the fulfillment of every vision. For there shall be no more any false vision or flattering divination within the house of Israel. Israel for I am the Lord. I will speak the word that I will speak, and it will be performed. It will no longer be delayed, but in your days, O rebellious house, I will speak the word and perform it. Declared the Lord God. And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. Behold, they of the house of Israel say, The vision that he sees is for many days from now, and he prophesies of times far off. Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord God, none of my words will be delayed any longer. But the word that I speak will be performed, declares the Lord God. All right, Ezekiel twelve. So here's Ezekiel already in exile. And We saw Jeremiah when we were in Jeremiah back in Jerusalem. So again, Jeremiah and Ezekiel are contemporaries. They're both prophesying at the same time. Now, the people who didn't get sent off into exile, people who remained in Jerusalem, the richest and most powerful among them, the leaders, the influencers. They were saying, oh, the ones sent into exile, they're cursed. We're blessed. We're going to be fine. But both Jeremiah and Ezekiel are telling them no. It's actually the opposite. The people who were sent into exile, they're being preserved as a remnant. But the people who are left behind in Jerusalem are going to see terrible destruction. And so he wants them to know that the people who are left behind in Jerusalem, you're going to go into exile. So God commands him. To do this living demonstration of what it will be like. They pack up their food and their baggage, dig a hole in the wall. And this is exactly what happened. Okay, this is exactly what happened. Um Zedekiah is the king left back in Jerusalem, and he's not going to see this idea of covering your eyes That you don't see. Zedekiah, during the siege of Jerusalem, 587-586, he dug a hole in the wall and tried to escape down to Egypt, but he was caught just a few miles outside the city. And he was brought up to Libna, and he was brought before uh the Rabshaka, and his eyes were cut out. Gouged out so that even when he was taken into exile, he did not see the land of Babylon. He was disguising himself, so he's when he when he went out of Jerusalem to disguise himself, he had a cloth over his head and was being hurried away. That's why he wouldn't have seen the land of Judah or J or Jerusalem or Israel, but then when he was captured, he had his eyes gouged out, and that's why he didn't even see Babylon. Um so this was exactly what happened, exactly how it was fulfilled. A few of them escape, verse 16 says, from the sword, from famine and pestilence. so that they may declare all their abominations among the nations where they go. God leaves a remnant to testify to the truth And so that's why God leaves these people alive, so that they can tell the truth of we were idolaters, we rejected the prophets, we stubbornly rebelled against God, God warned us again and again, and we didn't listen. Because by doing that, perhaps some of those who were sent into exile early, you know, there ends up being more scattered Jewish people than there are people in the land. uh of Israel. Even up to the time of Jesus, there's two to three times, four times as many Jewish people living outside of uh of Judah and Jerusalem and Israel than there are living inside. So this testimony is carried out by these exiles They go out in anxiety, they go out in dismay, this is going to happen. Now, the confusing part of this chapter, I think, comes in verse 21, where there's this proverb. That is being said about the land of Israel, the days grow long, and every vision comes to nothing. This is a proverb that was quoted To give people an excuse to ignore Jeremiah and Ezekiel. Jeremiah and Ezekiel are telling them, the final destruction of Jerusalem is coming, you're not going to escape judgment. But the reality is it was a long time. Between the first exiles being taken out around 600 and the city falling in 587-586. You've got fifteen years, twenty years of time between the first exiles being taken and the time when Jerusalem finally falls. During all of this time, Ezekiel taken off of that first group of exiles is prophesying in Babylon And Jeremiah left behind in the city is prophesying there for year after year after year. And so now the people say, oh, the days grow long and every vision comes to nothing. In other words, we're going to be just fine. But God says, no. Here's the proverb back. The days are near, and the fulfillment of every vision. No more false visions, no more flattering divinations. I am the Lord. I will speak the word that I speak, and it will be performed. It will no longer be delayed. I will do it. You know, when Jesus left this world, he said he's going to come back. And when he comes back, he's going to judge everyone. It's been 2,000 years since Jesus went. From earth back to heaven. And a lot of people use that to mock Christianity, mock the Bible, and say, Oh, all these people in the first century, when the Bible was written, they said that Jesus is coming back soon. He's coming back soon, and here it is two thousand years later. I guess he's not coming back. But actually, Peter warned us about this in Second Peter when he said, Look, a lot of people are going to say Where is his coming? Where is his coming? But with the Lord, a day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is as a watch in the night. In other words, time doesn't time is not as pressing for God. He can be patient And he is being patient because he wants everyone to be saved who's going to be saved. You know, think about it. If Jesus came back two thousand years ago, I wouldn't be saved, you wouldn't be saved because we didn't exist yet. We hadn't been born yet. So we had to be born into the world. We had to come to faith in Jesus Christ so that we could be among the number of God's redeemed. And God has a purpose for his perfect timing in everything. But when the time comes, his words will not be delayed any longer, and he will perform the word that he has spoken. The judgment will come. It may come within our lifetime, it may not. We don't know. Because again, the day with the Lord is as a thousand years, a thousand years as of the watch in the night. The people in Jerusalem grew complacent because it took so long. That was a relatively short period of time. But we need to be clear. Sin leads to sorrow. Actions have consequences. Idolatry leads to judgment. Jesus is coming again We need to hold on to the hope that He's given us, speak the truth, just like Jeremiah and Ezekiel did, worship him, testify to our neighbors. And believe that he will keep every promise that he has ever made because he never fails. Let's pray. Father, you are true and your words are true. It is impossible for you to lie or to be frustrated or to fail. You always accomplish your purposes. Thank you for that. Please help us to have faith in you, to trust in you doing what you said you're going to do, and to wait patiently for those things to come about in your timing and not in ours. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks so much for joining me for Ezekiel 12. I hope it was enlightening to you and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.