Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Ezekiel 47 is on top for us today on this 1021st day together in God's Word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, speak to us in your word We need you. We thank you. We look to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel 47. Then he brought me back to the door of the temple, and behold, water was issuing from below the threshold of the temple. Temple toward the east, for the temple faced east. The water was flowing down from below the south end of the threshold. of the temple, south of the altar. Then he brought me out by the way of the north gate, and led me around on the outside. to the outer gate that faces toward the east, and behold, the water was trickling out on the south side. Going on eastward with a measuring line in his hand The man measured a thousand cubits and then led me through the water, and it was ankle deep. Again, he measured a thousand and led me through the water. It was knee-deep. Again, he measured a thousand and led me through the water. And it was waist deep. Again he measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the water had risen. It was deep enough to swim in, a river that could not be passed through. And he said to me, Son of man, have you seen this? Then he led me back to the bank of the river. As I went back, I saw on the bank of the river very many trees on one side and on the other. And he said to me, this water flows toward the eastern region and goes down into the Arabah and enters the sea. When the water flows into the sea, the water will become fresh. And wherever the river goes, every living creature that swarms will live. And there will be very many fish. For this water goes there, that the waters of the sea may become fresh. So everyone will live where the river goes. Fishermen will stand beside the sea from Engedi to Englam. It will be a place for the spreading of nets. Its fish will be of very many kinds, like the fish of the Great Sea. But its swamps and marshes will not become fresh. They are to be left for salt. And on the banks, on both sides of the river, there will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves will not wither. Nor will their fruit fail, but they will bear fresh fruit every month, because the water for them flows from the sanctuary. Their fruit will be for food. and their leaves for healing. Thus says the Lord God, this is the boundary by which you shall divide the land for inheritance among the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph shall have two portions, and you shall divide equally what I swore to give to your fathers. This land shall fall to you as your inheritance. This shall be the boundary of the land on the north side, from the Great Sea by the way of Heflon, to Lebo Hamath, and on to Zedad, Barathau, Sibraim, which lies on the border between Damascus and Hamath. As far as Hazar Hatakon, which is on the border of Hauron, so the boundary shall run from the sea to Hazar-Enon which is on the northern border of Damascus, with the border of Hamath to the north, this shall be the north side. On the east side the boundary shall run between Haran And Damascus, along the Jordan, between Gilead and the land of Israel, on the eastern sea as far as Tamar, this shall be on the east side, on the south side it shall run Run from Tamar as far as the waters of Meribach Kadesh, from there along the brook of Egypt to the Great Sea. This shall be the south side. On the west side, the Great Sea Shall be a boundary to the point opposite Levo Hamath. This shall be the west side. So you shall divide this land among you according to the tribes of Israel. You shall allot it as an inheritance for yourselves. And for the sojourners who reside among you and have had children among you, they shall be to you as native-born children of Israel With you they shall be allotted an inheritance among the tribes of Israel. In whatever tribe the sojourner resides, there you shall assign him his inheritance, declares the Lord God. That is Ezekiel 47. So there is this river of life. And I want to go ahead and look. At Revelation 22, because this is part of what reinforces for me the case for this being the eschatological temple of the new Jerusalem in the new heavens and the new earth. Revelation twenty-two Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb, through the middle of the street of the city. Also on either side of the river, the tree of life, with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nation No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him, they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads, and night will be no more. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. So, first of all, this is called the water of life. And remember in Ezekiel, this river that flows out from the threshold of the temple, it goes out and wherever it touches, it brings life. Even life to the Dead Sea, it brings life. It's the water of life. It flows from the throne of God and of the Lamb. Now in Ezekiel it flows from the temple, but here, you know, in a sense the whole city is a temple, but More specifically, just up ahead in verse 22, so just the previous paragraph, I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb. And where's the water flowing from? The throne of God and of the Lamb. So from like in Ezekiel, you have Ezekiel's temple and then the holy city and then out to the Dead Sea, here you have the the God the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb, their throne and the city, and then This water flowing and specific language like the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations, it yields its fruit each month, and if we go back to um Ezekiel 47, we see that the leaves will not wither, the fruit will not fail, they will bear fresh fruit every month, for the water flows for them. The fruit will be for food and the leaves for healing, for the healing of the nations. So we do have this expansion that's the healing of the nations. Here we're looking at Israel. But in Revelation, the blessings that are promised to Israel are expanded to the whole nation. So one of the key transitions that happens Old Testament to New Testament As what Paul calls the mystery of God is revealed in Christ. That which was hidden is made known. That is, that God has always had a plan to bless all the nations. not just Israel. Now this wasn't really hidden too deeply, because when God called Abraham, he said, Through your offspring all the nations of the earth will be blessed. But this picture here of Israel getting its land and being blessed by this river that flows out of the temple, supernatural. naturally, is explicitly expanded in the New Testament so that the meek inherit the earth. We are heirs of creation. And it is the nations who are blessed, not just Israel. And this river, this river, the water of life. Jesus talked about the Holy Spirit being poured out. And whoever has faith in Jesus will have the water of life, the the living water, living water, water of life, same exact experience. expression flowing out of their hearts. And so we're the living stones of the temple, the living water flows out of our hearts, it flows out of the temple, it flows into the world, it blesses the world, it brings life. At first it's really shallow, but then it gets deeper and then it gets deeper as the blessings expand. And until eventually when the consummation comes at Jesus' second coming, the entire creation is transformed. formed and were brought in blessed as the new heavens and the new earth are populated by people from every nation, every tribe-tongue people in nation who are healed and made alive, made alive by the Holy Spirit and healed by the blood of Jesus. and and made new and given this rich inheritance. So the part about the division of the land and the inheritance, I believe that's just been expanded to be the entirety of the of the new heavens and the new earth, which is given to all of the children of God who were expanded. They're from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. But at the heart is the Lord God Almighty who reigns. Through the Lamb of God, whose blood, sacrifice, and resurrection made all this possible, and the Holy Spirit bringing the blessing of God and the healing of God. to everyone. We're part of that. That's what we get to share in. We are so blessed and so privileged to be a part of this. That we should be living holy, dedicated, devoted, worshipful lives Together as God's people, eager to spread this living water to the nations, eager to see Christ take root in the hearts of more and more worshippers, eager to see more and more stones added in into the Living Temple, eager to see more and more people blessed by the healing that the Lamb of God brings. That's our privilege, that's our calling, that's our mission, that should be our passion. Let's pray. Father, thank you for loving us and for calling us to be part of Jesus. Thank you that we stand here 2,000 years after Jesus offered up his life and rose again from the dead, we stand here some 2,600 years after Ezekiel had these visions. And we get to be a part of this. We who are on the other side of the world, we who are part of unknown peoples from the day of Ezekiel and from the time of the Bible, we get to share in this. We get to be a part. of those who who drink from the water of life and who get to share it with those around us. What a privilege, what a blessing, what a joy. May we live for nothing less than your glory, your kingdom, your gospel. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thanks for joining me for Ezekiel 47 tomorrow. We're going to wrap up this great book with Ezekiel 48. Hope you'll join me for that. Have a blessed day. The Lord.