Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 980th day together in the Word of God. And uh we are in Ezekiel chapter twenty. Let's pray. Heavenly Father Thank you so much for your word and your spirit and your faithfulness. You are so good to us every day of our lives. You love us. You shower blessings upon us. We thank you. Speak to us through Ezekiel 20. Convict our hearts. Show us Christ. Draw us closer to Him that we might walk in faith and obedience today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel twenty. In the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, certain of the elders of Israel came to inquire of the Lord and sat before me And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel and say to them, Thus says the Lord God. Is it to inquire of me that you come? As I live, declares the Lord God, I will not be inquired of by you. Will you judge them, Son of Man? Will you judge them? Let them know the abominations of their fathers, and say to them, Thus says the Lord God. On the day when I chose Israel, I swore to the offspring of the house of Jacob, making myself known to them in the land of Egypt, I swore to them, saying, I am the Lord your God. On that day I swore to them that I would bring them out of the land of Egypt to a land that I had searched out for them, a land flowing with milk and honey. the most glorious of all lands. And I said to them, Cast away the detestable things your eyes feast on, every one of you. And do not defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. But they rebelled against me, and were not willing to listen to me None of them cast away the detestable things their eyes feasted on, nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt. But I acted for the sake of my name. that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations among whom they lived, in whose sight I made myself known to them in bringing them out of the land of Egypt. So I led them out of the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness. I gave them my statutes and made known to them my rules by which if a person does them he shall shall live. Moreover, I gave them my Sabbath, as a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord who sanctifies them. But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not walk in my statutes, but rejected my rules, by which if a person does them, he shall live. and my Sabbaths they greatly profaned. Then I said, I would pour out my wrath upon them in the wilderness to make a full end of them, but I acted for the sake of my name that it should not be profane in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I had brought them out. Moreover, I swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land that I had given them, a land flowing with milk and honey, the most glorious of all lands, because they rejected my rules, and did not walk in my statutes, and profaned my Sabbaths. For their heart went after their idols Nevertheless, my eyes spared them, and I did not destroy them or make a full end of them in the wilderness. And I said to their children in the wilderness, Do not walk in the statutes of your fathers, nor keep their rules, nor defile yourselves with their idols. I am the Lord your God. Walk in my statutes. And be careful to obey my rules and keep my Sabbaths holy, that they may be a sign between me and you, that you may know that I am the Lord your God. But the children rebelled against me. They did not walk in my statutes, and were not careful to obey my rules, by which if a person does them, he shall live. They profaned my Sabbaths. Then I said, I will pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the wilderness, but I withheld my hand and acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations in whose sight I had brought them out. Moreover, I swore to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them among the nations and disperse them through the countries because they had not obeyed my rules, but had rejected my statutes and profaned my Sabbaths, and their eyes were set on their fathers' idols. Moreover, I gave them statutes that were not good, and rules by which they could not have life. And I defile them through their very gifts in offering up their firstborn, that I might devastate them. I did it that they might know that I am the Lord. Therefore, Son of Man, speak to the house of Israel and say to them: Thus says the Lord God. God. In this also your fathers blasphemed me by dealing treacherously with me. For when I had brought them into the land I swore to give them. then wherever they saw any high hill or any leafy tree, there they offered their sacrifices, and there they presented the provocation of their offering There they sent up their pat pleasing aromas, and there they poured out their drink offerings. I said to them, What is the high place to which you go? So its name is called Bama. to this day. Therefore, say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, will you defile yourself? After the manner of your fathers, and go whoring after detestable things. When you present your gifts and offer up your children in fire, you defile yourselves. with all your idols to this day. And shall I be inquired of by you? O house of Israel, as I live, declares the Lord God, I will not be inquired of by you What is in your mind shall never happen. The thought, let us be like the nations, like the tribes of the countries, and worship wood and stone. As I live, declares the Lord God. Surely, with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out, I will be king over you. I will bring you out from the peoples, and gather you out of the countries where you are scattered, with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out, and I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples. And there I will enter into judgment with you face to face. As I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will enter into judgment with you, declares the Lord. Lord God, I will make you pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant. I will purge out the rebels from among you, and those who transgress against me, I will bring them out of the land where they sojourn. But they shall not enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord. As for you, O house of Israel, thus says the Lord God, go serve every one of you his idols, now and hereafter If you will not listen to me, but my holy name you shall no more profane with your gifts and your idols. For on my holy mountain, the mountain height of Israel, declares the Lord God, there all the house of Israel, all of them, shall serve me in the land. There I will accept them, and there I will require your contributions and the choicest of your gifts with all your sacred offerings. As a pleasing aroma I will accept you when I bring you out from the peoples and gather you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will manifest my holiness among you in the sight of the nations, and you shall know That I am the Lord when I bring you into the land of Israel, the country that I swore to give to your fathers, and there you shall remember your ways and all your deeds, with which You have defiled yourselves, and you shall loathe yourselves for all the evils that you have committed, and you shall know that I am the Lord. When I deal with you for my name's sake, not according to your evil ways, nor according to your corrupt deeds, O house of Israel, declares the Lord God. And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. Set your face toward the Southland. Preach against the South and prophesy against the forest land and the Negev. Say to the forest of the Negeth, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, behold, I will kindle a fire in you. And it shall devour every green tree in you and every dry tree. The blazing flame shall not be quenched. And all faces from south to north shall be scorched by it. All flesh shall see that I, the Lord, have kindled it. It shall not be quenched Then I said, Ah Lord God, they are saying of me, is He not a maker of parables? So Ezekiel chapter twenty shows us very importantly The inadequacies of the old covenant and the need for Christ and the redemption that comes through Christ and the new covenant that comes in So here it's the seventh year of the exile, most likely, in the fifth month, the tenth day of the month, and some of the elders come to Ezekiel to inquire of the Lord. Ezekiel's been engaged in a public prophetic ministry for several years. And they come, they want to hear from the Lord. But the Lord Does not want to be inquired of by them, it does not want to speak to them because they're still idolatrous in their hearts. Fundamentally, they still want to be like the other nations. And there's a recounting of redemptive history here of how God called his people while they were in Egypt, but they were still idolatrous, and he was going to wipe them out. But he decided for the sake of his own name. and his reputation among the Egyptians that he was going to preserve his people and then bring them out. So step by step, God's showing us how he gave them statutes and rules. They did not keep them. They deserved his judgment. He intended to wipe them out. In other words, that's what justice would have required, but he decided not to because of the sake of his name. among the nations. And this is all showing us that an external set of rules written on tablets of stone, spoken from Mount Sinai, given in the law of Moses, it cannot change the hearts of people. If the hearts of people are wicked, then the hearts of people will continue to go astray, and an external law is totally inadequate to save. In fact, all it does is condemn. There's the repeated violation after miracles. You can have miracles. Some people think, oh, if only I could see the Lord do miracles, then I would believe, then I would obey. Well, these people saw miracle after miracle that the Lord showed them out of his grace to demonstrate his power, to demonstrate his character. And they still continued. To sin against him because an external law can never save. God says to them that the law he gave them was not going to give them life If you do them, you'll live by them. That's said repeatedly. But then it's also said that the rules were rules by which they could not have life. They were devastated. They were brought into judgment. They need something better. And ultimately that better would come through Jesus Christ. There is a promise of restoration in the second part of this chapter. And that restoration was anticipated in the return from exile under Nehemiah and Ezra and Surabbal and Josiah the um sorry, um Yeshua the high priest, Joshua the high priest, they they led this return and this restoration that's described in the books of Ezra and Nehemiah and the prophets Hagiah. And it's a partial and it's an anticipation, but ultimately, in Jerusalem, on a hill, Jesus would offer up the restoring sacrifice. Jesus would bring his people into a bond of covenant, the new covenant. And the scope of Israel would be expanded to be all of God's people. From every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. And one day we will all be gathered in. You see, we've now been given a new covenant, a bond of covenant that's written on our hearts, not on a tablet of stone, but on our hearts. And we're united to Christ, who is our redemption, who is our restoration. And one day when he comes, he will gather us all in from every corner of the earth. And we get to the end of Revelation, we'll see that the new Jerusalem comes down. and that we are gathered together as the New Jerusalem, as the living temple. And so it's in Christ That all of the broken inadequacies of the old covenant, which couldn't work because of our sinful hearts, that need more than an external sand. We need redemption and we need transformation. Christ accomplished that when the wrath of God was poured out on him. With a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and with wrath poured out. Verse 34, that's Jesus on the cross accomplishing the redemption of his people. And when he comes again, he will gather us in. And we will be holy. We will be purified. Inside and out. We're forgiven now. We're redeemed now. We're reconciled now. And the law of God is written on our hearts now, so that we have an internal desire to want to please the Lord, but we still sin. Because we're still in sinful uh bodies in the sinful world with still a lingering sinful nature. So we await the consummation of the redemption Redemption that was purchased by Christ, Christ, on that hill in Jerusalem. Christ is the fulfillment of the law, the end of the law to all who believe. Because he bore the wrath, fulfilled the righteous requirements, and now internalizes righteousness to us that we might love him and follow him as we should. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this word from Ezekiel 20. We know that we can't be saved by keeping rules because our hearts are sinful. We don't want to keep the rules. We're selfish and foolish and broken inside and out. We need Christ to be our Redeemer. We need Christ to be our intercessor. And we need Christ to come again and bring us home The author and finisher of our faith. And it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Ezekiel 20. We're going to hop over to the book of Proverbs tomorrow. I hope you can join me for that. And I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord