Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you on this 955th day together in the Word of God. And today we come back to the prophet Ezekiel, to Ezekiel chapter 3. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. Thank you so much for your love for us, for your power, for your sovereign goodness over the lives of your people. Teach us through Ezekiel 3. Show us your will, show us your character, show us your son. Move in our hearts by your Holy Spirit to the glory of your name. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel chapter 3 And he said to me, Son of man, eat whatever you find here. Eat this scroll and go, speak to the house of Israel So I opened my mouth, and he gave me this scroll to eat. And he said to me, Son of man, feed your belly with this scroll that I give you, and fill your stomach with it. Then I ate it, and it was in my mouth as sweet as honey. And he said to me, Son of man, go to the house of Israel and speak with my words to them For you are not sent to a people of foreign speech and a hard language, but to the house of Israel. Not to many peoples of foreign speech and a hard language whose words you cannot understand. Surely, if I sent you two such, they would listen to you. But the house of Israel will not be willing to listen to you. For they are not willing to listen to me, because all the house of Israel have a hard forehead and a stubborn heart. Behold, I have made your face as hard as their faces, and your forehead as hard as their foreheads, like emory Harder than flint have I made your forehead. Fear them not, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house. Moreover, he said to me, Son of man All my words that I shall speak to you, receive in your heart, and hear with your ears. And go to the exiles, to your people, and speak to them, and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, whether they hear or refuse to hear. Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great earthquake. Blessed be the glory of the Lord from its place. It was the sound of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, and the sound of the wheels beside them, and the sound of a great earthquake. The Spirit lifted me up and took me away, and I went in bitterness in the heat of my spirit, the hand of the Lord being strong upon me. And I came to the exiles at Tel A Tel Aviv. who were dwelling by the Kibar Canal, and I sat where they were dwelling, and I sat there overwhelmed among them seven days. And at the end of seven days the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me If I say to the wicked, you shall surely die, and you give him no warning, nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, in order to save his life. That wicked person shall die for his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand. But if you warn the wicked, And he does not turn from his wickedness or from his wicked way, he shall die for his iniquity. But you will have delivered your soul Again, if a righteous person turns from his righteousness and commits injustice, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die. because you have not warned him. He shall die for his sin, and his righteous deeds that he has done shall not be remembered, but his blood I will require at your hand But if you warn the righteous person not to sin, and he does not sin, he shall surely live Because he took warning, and you will have delivered your soul. And the hand of the Lord was upon me there, and he said to me, Arise, Go into the valley, and there I will speak with you. So I arose, and I went into the valley, and behold, the glory of the Lord stood there like the glory that I had seen by the Kibar Canal, and I fell on my face. But the spirit entered into me and set me on my feet and he spoke with me and said to me go Shut yourself within your house. And you, O Son of Man, behold, cords will be placed upon you, and you shall be bound with them, so that you cannot go out among the people And I will make your tongue cling to the roof of your mouth, so that you will be mute and unable to reprove them, for they are a rebellious house. But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord, He who will hear, let him hear And he who will refuse to hear, let him refuse, for they are a rebellious. The glory of God and the sweetest of his word And the clarity of his call must be the controlling factor for a minister of the word, for a messenger from the king. Must be the glory of God, must be the sweetness of his word, must be the clarity of the call. We were in Jeremiah before we came to Ezekiel, Jeremiah in Lamentation. And in Jeremiah, Jeremiah was told that the people who were sent away into exile were actually the Lord's holy remnant. the beloved of the Lord, and the people who were left in Jerusalem, they were the ones subject to judgment and wrath from God. But here we come to Ezekiel, who is in exile, with this remnant in exile. We find out they're really no better than the ones who've been left behind in Jerusalem, not in and of themselves Now, in many ways, God's going to show them favor. We can read about that in the books of Daniel and Esther. We can see that the the the Jewish people who are placed into exile actually multiply and grow and prosper much more so than those who stay in the land. But they don't listen. They're stubborn. And so God says to Ezekiel, first, he's already given them the vision of the glory of God. He's already called him to his task. And now he says, take this scroll and eat it. The minister of the word, the prophet, the messenger of God, must first take God's word and internalize it, and it must be sweet. to you. If you're going to speak God's word to someone else, you have to know his word. You have to have had have internalized it for yourself. We cannot commend what we do not cherish. That's the way John Piper has put it at times. We cannot commend to others as being true and the words of life what we do not cherish, what we have not internalized and regarded as sweet as honey The gospel is good news for us first, and then we can share it as good news to others. And then again, we have the if they're willing or not willing. But here they're not going to be willing. It's kind of surprising what Ezekiel is told. You're going to go and speak to the house of Israel. These people who speak your language, they come from your culture. They identify as the people of your God. And they will not listen to you. He says, if I were to send you to a people of foreign speech and hard language whose words you cannot understand, if I were to send you to such, they would listen to you. Daniel is sent to that audience, and Daniel actually gets heard. By King Nebuchadnezzar and by King Darius, foreigners. But Ezekiel Is not heard by the people of God. They have hard hearts and they have hard foreheads Stubborn hearts. God says to Ezekiel, I'm going to make your face as hard as their face, your forehead as hard as their forehead. Sometimes a hard-headed people need a hard-headed preacher. Who's just going to keep saying, this is the word of the Lord, this is the word of the Lord, this is the word of the Lord. And there's a very sobering warning in the second part of this chapter. And that is where he says to Ezekiel, if you don't warn them clearly with my words, and they die in their sin, Yes, they're going to be held accountable for their own sin, but he says, His blood I will require at your hand. His blood I will require at your hand. So sometimes when I'm coming on for these daily devotionals, or when I'm preaching on Sundays at church, there's a burden, there's a burden, a sense of urgency to say, turn away from the idols of the world. Do not love the world or the things that are in the world. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not from the Father, but from the world The world and its desires are passing away, but the one who does the will of God will stand forever. That's 1 John 2, 14 and 16. We are called James 4. 4, you adulterous people, do you not realize that your friendship with the world is enity with God? God is calling you, calling me to call you away from the world. Don't seek entertainment. and consumer culture that would take God as being one more experience to have. I was um Well, my wife was on Facebook the other day and reading a post from somebody who said they're looking for a non-denominational church in our area. And someone else posted about the church they go to, which is a very large and quickly growing non-denominational church in our area. And they said, it's so great. It's just like going to a Christian rock concert followed by a TED Talk on the Bible. This is the review for this church that they go to. And I'd heard that as a criticism of megachurch culture, but this is someone who actually goes to this non-denominational megachurch and they're saying this is what they like about it. It's like a Christian rock concert followed by a TED talk on the Bible, and that sounds great. And I asked my kids Uh I said, what what do you think about that perspective? And one of my kids said, it's all about entertainment If you're going for a concert and a TED Talk, you're going because you want to be entertained and inspired. And if you go to church because you're wanting to be entertained and inspired, are you really going to meet with the living God? To worship him, to give him the glory that he deserves, and to hear from him. Not hear a TED talk about the Bible, but to hear from God To do business with God, to meet with God, not to be entertained and inspired. That's not the same thing It may feel good, but is feeling good being faithful to God, giving him the glory that he is due. Praying to him, calling upon his name, hearing his word. We must We must be faithful to the Word of God because of the glory of God. And after this hard message about being the watchman and his blood, I will require your hand, what does God do? Again he gives him a vision of the glory of God. Go out to the valley, I'll speak to you there. I arose, I went to the valley, and behold, the glory of the Lord stood there, just like the glory that I'd seen by the Kibar Canal I fell on my face. And the Spirit entered me, set me on my feet, spoke with me, and said, Go shut yourself within your house. And basically saying to Ezekiel, your mouth is going to be shut, except to speak my words. I will open your mouth, and you will say, Thus says the Lord God. This is one of those things about being a preacher of the Word. When I get in the pulpit or when I come on these devotional studies. The determination must be to speak the Word of God and not just mouth off about my own opinions. Now I may tell stories for illustration point, or I may say something humorous as an aside, but the point of what is being said has to be God's message, not mine. I have lots of opinions about lots of things, and none of them are relevant to what God's people need to hear. God's people need to hear God's word. And so when we're going out to the world and we're going to tell people we're Christians and we're going to tell them about our Christian faith, let's not talk politics or social commentary. or things that are just secondary, talk Jesus. They might not want to hear it. But if we're going to say words, let's say the words of life. Whether they listen or whether they don't listen, at least we will have said the things that need to be said. God is real. He is holy and just. He requires Obedience, and thus our sin needs forgiveness. Jesus is the only one who can forgive our sins. He's the only one who died. to take our sins away and rose again to conquer death forevermore. He's the one true and living Savior, and only by faith in him can we have peace with God and eternal life. We must speak the truth. Truth. Whether they listen or don't listen. Let's pray. Father, your ways Are holy, for you are holy. Your words are the words of eternal life, for you are eternal life. Knowing you is eternal life Let us walk in your ways and speak your words. Make us faithful to this end we pray. In Jesus' name Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for Ezekiel chapter 3. Tomorrow we're going to move on to chapter 4, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.