Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you here. On our one thousand and fourth day in the Word of God as we are in Ezekiel thirty-six. This is such a great chapter, and also the next one in Ezekiel a couple of days from now, thirty-seven. Really pivotally important chapters. in this wonderful prophetic book. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we love you. We thank you for your word. We thank you for your son. We thank you for the gospel, the gospel of your grace through Jesus Christ, our Savior. Father, would you please write Ezekiel 36 in our hearts? Help us to see your truth, to believe, to live, to follow. In Jesus' name, Amen. Ezekiel 36. And you, Son of Man Prophesy to the mountains of Israel and say, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, because the enemy said of you, Aha! And the ancient heights have become our possession. Therefore prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord God, precisely because they made you desolate and crushed you from all sides, so that you became the possession of the rest of the nations. and you became the talk and gossip, evil gossip of the people, therefore, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord God. Thus says the Lord God to the mountains and the hills, the ravines and the valleys, the desolate wastes and the deserted cities. which have become a prey and derision to the rest of the nations all around. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, surely I have spoken in my hot jealousy against the rest of the nations and against Edom. who gave my land to themselves as a possession with wholehearted joy and utter contempt that they might make its pasture lands a prey. Therefore prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and say to the mountains and hills, to the ravines and the valleys, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I have spoken in my jealous wrath. Because you have suffered the reproach of the nations. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, I swear that the nations that are all around you shall themselves suffer reproach. But you O mountains of Israel, shall shoot forth your branches and yield your fruit to my people Israel, for they will soon come home. For behold, I am with you And I will turn to you, and you shall be tilled and sown, and I will multiply people on you, the whole house of Israel, all of it, the cities shall be inhabited and the wasteplaces rebuilt, and I will multiply on you man and beast, and they shall multiply and be fruitful. And I will cause you to be inhabited as in your former times, and will do more good to you than ever before. Then you will know that I am the Lord. Israel, and they shall possess you, and you shall be their inheritance, and you shall no longer bereave them of children. Thus says the Lord God, because they say to you, You devour people, and you bereave your nation of children. Therefore you shall no longer devour people, and no longer bereave your nation of children, declares the Lord God. And I will not let you hear any more the reproach of the nations, and you shall no longer hear the disgrace of the peoples, and no longer cause your nation to stumble, declares the Lord God. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. When the house of Israel lived in their own land, they defiled it by their ways and their deeds. Their ways before me were like the uncleanness of a woman in her menstrual impurity. So I poured out my wrath upon them. for the blood that they had shed in the land, for the idols with which they had defiled it. I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries, in accordance with their ways and their deeds I judged them. But when they came to the nations, whenever wherever they came, they profaned my holy name. And that people said of them, These are the people of the Lord, and yet they had to go out of his land. But I had concern for my holy name Which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations to which they came. Therefore Say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name. which you have profaned among the nations to which you came, and I will vindicate the holiness of my great name. Which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them, and the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God. When, through you, I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you. and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people and I will be your God, and I will deliver you from all your uncleannesses, and I will summon the grain and make it abundant, and lay no famine upon you I will make the fruit of the tree and the increase of the field abundant, that you may never again suffer the disgrace of famine among the nations. Then you will remember your evil ways and your deeds that were not good, and you will loathe yourselves for your iniquities and your abominations. It is not for your sake that I will act, declares the Lord God. Let that be known to you. You be ashamed and confounded of your ways, O house of Israel. Thus says the Lord God on the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited. And the waste places shall be rebuilt, and the land that was desolate shall be tilled, instead of being the desolation that it was in the sight of all who passed by, And they will say, This land that was desolate has become like the Garden of Eden, and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are now fortified and inhabited. Then the nations that are left all around you shall know that I am the Lord. I have rebuilt the ruined places and replanted that which was desolate Desolate. I am the Lord, I have spoken, and I will do it. Thus says the Lord God, this also I will let the house of Israel ask me To do for them to increase their people like a flock. Like the flock for sacrifices, like the flock at Jerusalem during her appointed feast. So shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of people, then they will know that I am the Lord. Ezekiel 36, a key and pivotal chapter because at the heart of it Especially in verses 22 to 28, 29, we have this promise of a new heart, which is very parallel to what Jeremiah promised concerning the new covenant. We remember that Jeremiah and Ezekiel are contemporaries. They're prophesying at the same time. Jeremiah is in Jerusalem. Ezekiel is with the exiles in Babylon. Jeremiah is prophesying in chapter 31 and 32. of his prophecy about the new covenant and the language of forgiveness of sins and a new heart and writing my law on your heart. And here in Ezekiel 11, we already had a little bit of a hint of this, but then it's unpacked further here in the heart of Ezekiel 36 about this new heart. And being cleansed from all uncleanness and sin, and having a new heart and new spirit, and being caused to walk in the way of God So this is really Ezekiel's parallel passage to the New Covenant passage that we find in Jeremiah 31. But let's put it in context by looking at the whole chapter. First of all, there's a focus on the land and on the name. So God had made covenant promises way back to Abraham, which is now hundreds and hundreds of years before. Ezekiel and Jeremiah are prophesying. Sometimes we condense all of biblical history in our mind and we think, oh, just way back then in Bible times. Well, from Abraham's day when he was given the covenant promise. to Jeremiah and Ezekiel's day is, you know, some fourteen hundred years. You know, that's going back like from our day, that's going all the way back to like the six hundreds. Okay, that's a long way back. So God has made this promise to his people that he would give them a land, that he would be their God, and that they would be his people. and that his name would be honored among them, and that through Abraham and his offspring all the nations of the earth will be blessed. But there's a fundamental problem with with the people. That prevents God's covenant promise from coming to fruition under the old covenant, under the Mosaic Law. Because the Mosaic Law is written on tablets of stone, and the people have hearts of stone. They don't keep the law. So the land is defiled and they have to be kicked out of it. And then God's name is dishonored when they go on. So it's it's like the polar opposite of what God had promised. God promised, I'm going to give you the land, and you're going to be blessed in the land, and through you all the nations of the earth. earth will be blessed. Well God gave them the land and they defiled the land because of their sin. And then through them all of the nations of the earth mocked And reviled the name of the Lord because they said these are the people of the Lord and they couldn't even stay in the land. And so the land has been defiled, and God's name has been dishonored, and God must Solve this for the sake of his own honor and his own covenant-keeping integrity. And so he's going to do it. And the way he's going to do it is through this new covenant. He's going to, in verse 23, vindicate the holiness of his great name, which has been profaned among by gathering his people together, sprinkling clean water on them, verse 25. and cleansing them from all their idols, and then giving them a new heart and a new spirit. Now when Jesus talked to Nicodemus at night in John chapter 3 3, he said that we needed to be born again by water and the Spirit if we were to see the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, but that which is born born of the spirit is spirit. Well what happens when we're born of the spirit? Our heart of stone, verse 26, is removed. And a heart of flesh is given to us. In other words, the hard-hearted selfishness of our sinful nature is replaced by a tender-hearted desire to do the will of God. And when, in verse uh thirty-one, we remember the evil deeds and the ways that were not good, we'll loathe ourselves and we'll be we'll be repentant. So it's it is repentance. And faith and responsiveness to the Word of God that now lives in us instead of being written just externally. This is what God does. And it was accomplished because of the death and resurrection of Jesus. It was poured out with the outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost. God had gathered in his people from all the nations. We were told in Acts 2 about all these different nations where God's people have been gathered from. And they all saw the Spirit poured out, and they were all baptized in water and received the Holy Spirit. They were born again. They had And then they spread throughout the whole world, bringing the name of the Lord to the nations as a blessing. And fast forward two thousand years, here we sit today on the other side of the world from Jerusalem, speaking a different language that didn't even exist back in Pentecost days and blessing the name of the Lord and the name of the Lord through Jesus Christ and through the new covenant fulfillment in Christ and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit, the name of the Lord is blessed all over the world by more and more people every day. And God is doing this. God is spreading his name throughout the whole world and God is prospering his people and one day Jesus will come again And when he comes again and the sons of God are revealed, then the whole world, Jesus said, the meek will inherit the earth. Not just the land of Israel, but the entire earth will be inherited by God's people as a renewed, Eden-like paradise. Where God's people will live forever with the Lord. And He will be our shepherd, and He will be with us as our God, as we saw in Revelation 21 back when we were in Revelation a few weeks ago. This is the this is the the promise-keeping God that we serve. He will vindicate his name, he will be glorified, he will bless his people, he will keep the Abrahamic promise. And Second Corinthians one twenty that we've already looked at in our study of Second Corinthians is that every promise of God is yes to And the book of Galatians tells us that we are all heirs of the covenant promises made to Abraham kept in Christ. And so that's what we see here We've been through a lot of judgment in Ezekiel. We've been through a lot of harsh words. We've been through a lot of threatening. And in the end, all of the external judgment, all of the external punishment, all the external threatening could not change the heart. Only Jesus Christ coming, dying for our sins, rising again, pouring out his spirit. changes our hearts so that we are renewed, regenerated, born again, made alive, as we'll see in a couple of days when we get to Ezekiel 33 37. We're as dead as a valley of dry bones until the Spirit of the Lord comes. This is the new covenant promise that we have. Our response is simple: Trust in the Lord. Follow him from the heart, because he's written his law in our hearts. Praise God for the gift of his Holy Spirit. Walk in the Spirit and not in the flesh. I mean glorify God because it's all to the praise of His name and realize it's not because of what we did, but it's because of what He did for us. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the precious promises of your word that are all kept in Christ. Thank you for causing us to be redeemed, forgiven, cleansed. Renewed, born again, alive to you. We praise you. Help us to live for you today. Help us to live out of those new hearts you've given us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Ezekiel 36, a wonderful chapter. Hope it was a blessing to you. Have a blessed day in the Lord.