Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It's a great day today on our 983rd day together in the Word of God, and we come to Ezekiel 22. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the days that you give us, for the times in your word. for your consistent faithfulness, for the truth that penetrates, so that your grace might heal. Speak to us today, we pray, in Jesus' name Amen. We've got another tough chapter in front of us, and God has some hard things to say to us today, but we need to hear them because when we're aware of our sin, we can repent and we can seek the Lord more earnestly. Ezekiel 22, and the word of the Lord came to me saying, And you, Son of Man, will you judge? Will you judge the bloody city then declare to her all her abominations? You shall say, Thus says the Lord God, a city that sheds blood in her midst. So that her time may come, and that makes idols to defile herself. You have become guilty by the blood that you have shed, and defiled by the idols that you have made. And you have brought your days near. The appointed time of your years has come. Therefore I have made you a reproach to the nations and a mockery to all the countries. Those who are near and those who are far from you will mock you. Your name is defiled. You are full of tumult. Behold, the princes of Israel in you, every one according to his power, have been bent on shedding blood. Father and mother are treated with contempt in you The sojourner suffers extortion in your midst. The fatherless and the widow are wronged in you. You have despised my holy things and profaned my Sabbath. There are men in you who slander to shed blood, and people in you who eat on the mountains. They commit lewdness in your midst. In you, men uncover their father's nakedness. In you, they violate women who are unclean in their menstrual impurity. One commits abomination with his neighbor's wife, another lewdly defiles his daughter-in-law, another in you violates his sister, his father's daughter. In you they take bribes to shed blood, you take interest and profit and make gain of your neighbors by extortion, but me you have forgotten, declares the Lord God Behold, I strike my hand at the dishonest game that you have made and at the blood that has been in your midst. Can your courage endure? Or can your hands be strong in the days that I shall deal with you? I, the Lord, have spoken, and I will do it I will scatter you among the nations and dispense you through the countries, and I will consume your uncleanness out of you. And you shall be profaned by your own doing in the sight of the nations, and you shall know that I am the Lord. And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. The house of Israel has become draws to me, all of them are silver, are So sorry, all of them are bronze and tin and iron and lead in the furnace. They are dross of silver. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, because you have all become dross. Therefore, behold, I will gather you into the Midst of Jerusalem. As one gathers silver and bronze and iron and lead and tin into a furnace to blow the fire on it in order to melt it, so I will gather you in my anger and in my wrath. And I will put you in and melt you. I will gather you and blow on you with the fire of my wrath, and you shall be melted in the midst of it. As silver is melted in a furnace, so you shall be melted in the midst of it And you shall know that I am the Lord. I have poured out my wrath upon you. And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. Say to her, You are a land that is not cleansed. Or reigned upon in the day of d indignation. The conspiracy of her prophets in her midst is like a roaring lion tearing the prey. They have devoured human lives. They have taken treasure and precious things. They have made many widows in her midst. Her priests have done violence to my law and have profaned my holy things. They have made no distinction between the holy and the common. Neither have they taught the difference between the unclean and the clean, and they have disregarded my Sabbaths, so that I am profaned among them. Her princes in her midst are like wolves tearing the prey, shedding blood, destroying lives to get dishonest gain. And her prophets have smeared whitewash for them, seeing false visions and divining lies for them, saying, Thus says the Lord God, when the Lord has not spoken. The people of the land have practiced extortion and committed robbery, they have oppressed the poor and needy, and have extorted from the sojourner without justice. And I sought for a man among them who should build up the wall and stand in the breach before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none Therefore, I have poured out my indignation upon them. I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath. I have returned their way upon their heads. Hmm. What a mess. What an absolute mess There are patterns to idolatry that we need to be aware of so that we can recognize them in our own cultural company. We live in a different cultural context than Jerusalem in 587 BC. We're 2600 years removed. We're on the other side of the world. We're in a modern technological age. But the heart of man doesn't change. Idolatry and bloodshed go together. Idolatry and violence go together, as well as oppression of the poor. Here's the thing. If you set your heart to want the things of the world for yourself. And if they become the ultimate goal of your life, I must have money, I must have pleasure, I must have a good reputation, I must have others think well of me. I must have convenience, I must have safety, whatever it is, I must have political power, I must have success and happiness. I must have some me time, whatever it is that you are turning into the ultimate pursuit of your life. Before too long, standing between you and your idol will be something that the Lord has forbidden So in order to get wealthy, I have to cheat someone or exploit someone in order to keep my good reputation. I have to slander someone else in order to protect my status within the community. I have to get rid of this unwanted baby from this unwanted pregnancy, or else it will shame our family, and so we have to get an abortion. And the patterns here are still the same. Idolatry leads to violence. Bloodshed, extortion, oppression, slander. And if you're doing that, you're not honoring God So you can take it, there's a wide spectrum of ways that this is seen in the church and in our culture today. Everything from the fact that the Lord's day As a Christian Sabbath, as a day of rest, is almost completely disregarded by Christians today. Sunday is no different from any other day of the week. Oh yeah, Chick-fil-A is closed and we applaud them for that. But Other than that, we say, eh, it's just another day. In fact, if it's more convenient to go to church on Saturday night, I'll go to church on Saturday night. I'll make church convenient to meet my schedule so that I can do what I want to do with my day. It's the Lord's Day. It's been held as the Lord's Day by Christians for two thousand years. John calls it the Lord's Day in Revelation 1. It's the day of assembly, of worship, and of rest. God didn't nullify the fourth commandment in the new covenant. Jesus corrected the wrong cultural application of it to show that works of necessity and mercy, it's always good to do good especially Especially on the on the Sabbath day is the best day to do good to others. But it is a day set apart and holy unto the Lord. The name of the Lord. is to be praised, not used as a curse word. The name of the Lord is to be honored, not thrown around as an as an exclamation. And yet professing Christians, church-going Christians, take the name of the Lord in vain. So we defile his day, fourth commandment. We take his name in vain, third commandment. We turn worship into an entertainment experience. And we're very fixated on the visual and the experiential. That's kind of the 21st century equivalent of bowing down before carved images. It's all about what am I getting out of it? Can I relate to it? Not does it glorify God and does it conform to his word? Honor your father and mother? Phew. Nope. Not in this culture. No way. Boomer. Right? You've just the the blatant disregard and disrespect of elders, of people in authority, of parents and grandparents, is widespread, even in Christian circles. Adultery? Jesus said if you look at a woman with lust, you've already committed adultery in your heart, and yet sexual immorality, pornography, um Widespread and its use among Christians widespread. All of this because at the root is idolatry We want to please ourselves more than glorify God. We want to get what we can get out of this world. That's basically what idolatry is. How do I get what I want out of this world for me rather than having a heart to glorify and enjoy? The one true God forever and ever. And it leads to consequences. It leads to consequences. And we must Repent. There's a furnace image here. God says among his people there's silver. There are true believers, but there's also bronze and tin and lead. That's false believers, people who are not really children of God. But they're mixed in among God's people. And so he brings into a furnace. He heats he turned up the heat. I believe that in America the heat is being turned up on professing Christians. And it will continue to be turned up in order to separate the silver from the dross, the true worshippers of God from the idolaters. It's going to get uncomfortable. It's going to get costly. Our idols are going to cost us. And we're going to have to let go of them so that we can worship God rightly. The final thing, the good news here. Is that at the very end of this chapter, God is looking for an intercessor. He's looking for someone to stand in the breach before me, and we have that intercessor. He wasn't there in Ezekiel's day, but he stands at the right hand of God today, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. As wayward and worldly as we can be. And we should not be. We should repent. We have one who keeps praying for us if we are truly children of God. And he will not stop praying for us. He has taken the wrath of God upon himself, so that we are not consumed with the fire of God's wrath. But instead we stand before God, forgiven, redeemed, loved, adopted. And prayed for. As Jesus said to Peter, I've prayed for you that your faith may not fail. Jesus prays for us that our faith may not fail. And that gives us strong hope. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior and interest Intercessor, please forgive us of our idolatry. Show us the ways in which the world has too strong of a grip on our hearts, that we might turn our backs on the things that are ultimately death to us. and turn our faces toward you in worship and joyful reverence. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That's Ezekiel 22. Tomorrow we're going back to Revelation. Yay. We're going to pick up with Revelation chapter 20. And looking forward to that. I hope you can join me for that. I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord. Portrait.