Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 961st day. Together in the Word of God. And we come today to Ezekiel chapter 7. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good. So good. We love you because you're good and you're good to us. You're faithful in all your ways. Your steadfast love never ceases. Your mercies never come to an end. Father, we have a sobering passage in front of us in Ezekiel Satan. So we pray that you would speak to us through your word, write it on our hearts, and help us to hear it. Receive it by faith, treasure it, and draw close to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Ezekiel chapter seven. The word of the Lord came to me And you, O Son of Man, thus says the Lord God to the land of Israel, an end. The end has come upon the four corners of the land. Now the end is upon you, and I will send my anger upon you. I will judge you according to your ways, and I will punish you for all your abominations. And my eye will not spare you, nor will I have pity, but I will punish you for your ways while your abominations are in your midst. Then you will know That I am the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, disaster after disaster, behold, it comes. An end has come. The end has come. Come. Behold, it comes. Your doom has come to you, O inhabitant of the land. The time has come, the day is near, a day of tumult, and not of joyful shouting on the mountains. Now I will soon pour out my wrath upon you, and spend my anger against you, and judge you according to your ways, and I will punish you for all your abomination And my eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. I will punish you according to your ways while your abominations are in your midst. Then you will know that I am the Lord who strength. Behold the day. Behold it comes. Your doom has come. The rod has blossomed. Pride has budded. Violence has grown up into a rod of wickedness None of them shall remain, nor their abundance, nor their wealth, neither shall there be preeminence among them The time has come. The day has arrived. Let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn, for wrath is upon all their multitude. For the seller shall not return to what he has sold while they live. For the vision concerns all their multitude. It shall not turn back, and because of his iniquity, none can maintain his life. They have blown the trumpet. and made everything ready, but none goes to battle, for my wrath is upon all their multitude. The sword is without. Pestilence and famine are within. He who is in the field dies by the sword, and him who is in the city, famine and pestilence devour And if any survivors escape, they will be on the mountains like doves of the valley, all of them moaning, each one over his iniquity. All hands are feeble and all knees turned to water. They put on sackcloth and horror covers them. Shame is on all faces, and baldness on all their heads. They cast their silver into the streets, and their gold is like an unclean thing. Their silver and gold are not able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the Lord. They cannot satisfy satisfy their hunger or fill their stomachs with it, for it was the stumbling block of their iniquity. His beautiful ornament they used for pride, and they made their abominable images and their detestable things of it Therefore, I make it an unclean thing to them, and I will give it into the hands of foreigners for prey, and to the wicked of the earth for spoil, and they shall profane it. I will turn my face from them, and they shall profane my treasured place. Robbers shall enter and profane I will bring the worst of the nations to take possession of their houses. I will put an end to the pride of the strong, and their holy places shall be profaned. When anguish comes, they will seek peace But there shall be none. Disaster comes upon disaster, rumor follows rumor. They seek a vision from the prophet while the law perishes, from the priests, and counsel from the elders. The king mourns The prince is wrapped in despair, and the hands of the people of the land are paralyzed by terror. According to their way I will do to them And according to their judgments I will judge them, and they shall know that I am the Lord. Ezekiel chapter 7. The day of wrath of the Lord. That's the header for Ezekiel 7. And you might be wondering, what day is this describing? Is it describing the day in which the Lord is going to bring complete devastation and destruction to Jerusalem and the temple and the final group of exiles will be sent off to Babylon and the poor of the land scattered? Or is it describing the great and final day of judgment judgment of the Lord when the Lord Jesus Christ returns and the whole world is judged. Well, in verse two When the Lord says the end has come upon the four corners of the land, that word could either be translated As the land, as in the land of Israel, four corners, no place to escape, or it can be translated as the four corners of the earth. And we know that in biblical prophecy language. Four is the number of creation, four corners of the world. We see this in Revelation, other places. So I think what we have here It's a prophecy of the destruction of Jerusalem and Judah, but in language that is vague and sweeping, so that actually lifts us above the destruction of Jerusalem and Judah that comes comes in uh five eighty six BC and it takes us to the great and final day of the Lord. Much as David will sometimes write in the Psalms out of his own suffering, but he's lifted by So this is Ezekiel being shown a picture of the final destruction of Jerusalem and the temple and Judah, but but above that it is actually a a bigger picture destruction of the whole world. And so the end, there's an end coming immediately for the land of Israel, for Jerusalem, for the people of God is there can be taken. But there's a final end coming, and the cause, the root cause of both is the same. Now this is strong language, repeated language. My eye will not spare you, nor will I have pity, I will punish you for your ways, while your abominations are in your midst. And then verse 9, My I will not spare, nor will I have pity, I will punish you according to your to your ways, while your abominations are in your midst, God repeats that's intent and clarification and certainty. And then at the end of both, it is then you will know that I am the Lord. God reveals himself in creation, and he's revealed himself in his word And he's revealed himself in the Word of God incarnate in His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. When people refuse to heed God's self-disclosure. When they refuse to listen and trust and obey and respond in faith to the way God has disclosed Himself, then God says, I will show myself to you in wrath and in fury, because you have continued in your abominations, though I have shown you Covenant promises, though I have shown you graciousness and patience, though I have shown you the beauty of creation, though I have shown you the love of God incarnate in my Son, though I have shown you the wisdom of God inscripturated in the Holy Bible. I've given you all of this and you have what have you done with it all? You've you've taken it and you've used it and abused it. There's um Later in this passage, in verse 20, his beautiful ornament they used for pride. And they made their abominable images and their detestable things of it. Everything we take and use to make idols to worship is given to us by God and belongs to God and is given to us for the glory of God So it's given to us by God, it belongs to God, and it's given to us for the glory of God, and yet we take it and we use it for selfish reasons. for our pride, for our self-satisfaction, to commit idolatry, and to turn our backs on the living God. And the result of that is a world full of bloody violence and idolatry. Because idolatry will lead to injustice, will lead to selfish violence, will lead to Just terrible wickedness across the whole world. And we see that. We can see that whenever we turn on the news or we look online or we look at what entertains people. It is Idolatry, injustice, immorality, and violence. And God will come to the point where He says, I've shown you enough of my goodness. And you have spurned it, and now judgment comes. And this is ultimately how God will be glorified. At the end of the chapter, again, for the third time, they shall know that I am the Lord. Philippians 2 tells us that on that day every knee will bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Everyone will know that Jesus is Lord on that day. They have the message available to them now, but they deny it in their unbelief and in their selfishness and in their pride. On that day they will be humbled, but it will be a day of judgment and wrath. We are called to be those who pray. Who proclaim, who practice, the revelation of God, the Lordship of Jesus Christ, the gospel in our lives We're supposed to pray for the conversion of the lost, for the furtherance of the gospel to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. We are to preach, proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ In our words, and we're to practice it in our lives so that people can see Christ making a difference in us. Not that we're sinless and perfect, but we should be humble and sincere. And God So this is, I believe, the message for us from Ezekiel 7. The day of the Lord is coming, the great day of God's wrath, on all the earth, for denying his revelation and for using his good gifts for selfish pride. Until that day comes, let us pray, let us proclaim, and let us practice the gospel, so that the world might see before it is too late. Let's pray now. Father, thank you for your love for us, for rescuing us from our sin and our ignorance and our unbelief and our pride and our foolishness. Thank you for having mercy on us. Would you please have mercy on those we love who do not know you? Would you turn them from darkness to light Open their eyes to see the truth, that they might be free from the kingdom of Satan and the darkness of unbelief, and be set free into the kingdom of your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, and into the light of the glory of God in the face of Christ Jesus. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you for joining me for Ezekiel 7. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 8. I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.