Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel, and it's good to be with you for this 1016th day, together in the Word of God. As we come to Ezekiel 44, let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you. You are good. You are gracious to us. You love us. You speak your word to us and reveal your truth to us, and we need your help. Because there are parts of your word that we don't fully understand, and we need your Holy Spirit, we need your wisdom, we need your guidance to help us to see the truth and to understand how we should live. Help us to love Jesus and live more faithfully today for the time we spend in your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Ezekiel 44. Then he brought me back to the outer gate of the sanctuary which faces east, and it was shut. And the Lord said to me, This gate shall remain shut It shall not be opened, and no one shall enter by it, for the Lord, the God of Israel, has entered by it. Therefore it shall remain shut. Only the prince may sit in it to eat bread before the Lord. He shall enter by way of the vestibule of the gate, and shall go out by the same way. Then he brought me by way of the north gate to the front of the temple, and I looked, and behold, the glory of the Lord. filled the temple of the Lord, and I fell on my face. And the Lord said to me, Son of man, mark well. See with your eyes and hear with your ears all that I shall tell you concerning all the statutes of the temple of the Lord and all its laws, and mark well the entrance to the temple, and all exits from the sanctuary, and say to the rebellious house, to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, O house of Israel, enough of all your abominations in admitting foreigners uncircumcised in heart and flesh to be in my sanctuary, profaning my temple, when you offer to me my food, the fat and the blood. You have broken my covenant. In addition to all your abominations, and you have not kept charge of my holy things. But you have set others to keep charge for you in my sanctuary. Thus says the Lord God, no foreigner. Uncircumcised in heart and flesh, of all the foreigners who are among the people of Israel shall enter my sanctuary. But the Levites who went far from me, going astray from me, after their idols when Israel went astray, shall bear their punishment, they shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having oversight at the gates of the temple and ministering in the temple They shall slaughter the burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall stand before the people to minister to them. Because they ministered to them before their idols. and became a stumbling block of iniquity to the house of Israel, therefore I have sworn concerning them, declares the Lord God, and they shall bear their punishment They shall not come near to me to serve me as priest, nor come near any of my holy things, and the things that are most holy, but they shall bear their shame. And the abominations that they have committed, yet I will appoint them to keep charge of the temple, to do all its service, and all that is to be done in it. But The Levitical priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept the charge of my sanctuary when the people of Israel went astray from me, shall come near to me to minister to me, and they shall stand before me to offer the fat and the blood, declares the Lord God. They shall enter my sanctuary, and they shall approach my table to minister to me, and they shall keep my charge. When they enter the gates of the inner court, they shall wear linen garments. They shall have nothing of wool on them while they minister at the gates of the inner court and within. They shall have linen turbans on their heads, and linen undergarments around their waists. They shall not bind themselves with anything that causes sweat. And when they go out into the outer court to the people, they shall put off the garments in which they had been ministering, and lay them in the holy chambers. And they shall put on other garments, lest they transmit holiness to the people with their garments. They shall not shave their heads. or let their locks grow long, they shall surely trim the hair of their heads. No priest shall drink wine when he enters the inner court They shall not marry a widow or a divorced woman, but only virgins of the offspring of the house of Israel, or a widow who is the widow of a priest. They shall teach my people the difference between the holy and the common, and show them how to distinguish between the unclean and the clean. In a dispute they shall act as judges, and they shall judge it according to my judgments. They shall keep my laws and my statutes in all my appointed feasts, and they shall keep my Sabbaths holy. They shall not defile themselves by going near to a dead person. However, for father or mother, for son or daughter, for brother or unmarried sister, they may defile themselves After he has become clean, they shall count seven days for him. And on the day he goes into the holy place, into the inner court, to minister in the holy place, he shall offer his sin offering, declares the Lord God. This shall be their inheritance. I am their inheritance, and you shall give them no possession in Israel. I am their possession. They shall eat the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, and every devoted thing in Israel shall be theirs. And the first of all the firstfruits of all kinds, and every offering of all kinds from all your offerings, shall belong to the priests. You shall also give to the priests the first of your dough, that a blessing may rest on your house. The priests shall not eat of anything, whether bird or beast, that has died of itself or is torn by wild animals. This is Ezekiel 44. And honestly, this is where it gets really tricky. And when I was praying And telling the Lord we need his help, we certainly do need his help because this is a very difficult section of God's word. Because I think In the big picture, there's there's a few things to that we've already talked about that I just want to review and acknowledge. First of all, at no time in the history of the world has a temple with this description fitting these dimensions been built by the people of Israel on the Temple Mound in Jerusalem. It's never been done in the history of the world. world. When the people returned from exile and they rebuilt the temple under Zerubabel, and then when that temple was expanded, enhanced, beautified by Herod and became known as Herod's temple, which was the temple that was there in Jesus' day. Neither one of those, that neither the smaller temple of Zerubul's day, uh, nor the larger expanded temple, neither one of those fit the description here. They didn't have these same dimensions or quite the same layout. And the other very important thing is that the glory of the Lord never showed up for that second temple. Like it did with the first temple when Solomon built it. There was never the Shekinah glory cloud that showed up for that second temple. And so there are really two main options for what do we do with these chapters. One is we say that when Jesus returns in glory and establishes a millennial reign on earth of a thousand years, this temple will stand in Jerusalem during that millennial reign. And so this is known as the millennial Millennial temple. I don't hold that position. I don't hold that position because I'm not premillennial. I don't think that's the right way to read the very short millennium passage. in Revelation 20. I don't think it's the right way to understand scripture as a whole. I don't think there's a second, second coming of Jesus. In other words, two judgment days, one when he comes again, and then one at the end of the millennial reign. I don't think it makes sense of the the broader testimony of Scripture, nor is it the best way to handle that passage in Revelation. There's two different videos now on Revelation 20 that you can go and watch about that if you want to search for Revelation 20 on our church YouTube channel. you can find those. But also, the idea that Jesus would come back and reign in Jerusalem And then at that time there would be sacrifices, blood sacrifices, sin offerings being made in the temple. Jesus is the once-for-all sacrifice. He is the sin offering. Why would they be offering sin offerings? Chapter 44 here specifically talks about an unclean priest who has to go bury a family member who comes back, he's going to offer his sin offering. Why would we have Levitical priests offering a sin offering in an earthly temple? That completely undermines the entire book of Hebrews and our entire understanding of the once for all finished sacrifice of Christ. So the Millennial Temple just doesn't work theologically or biblically. But what the New Testament shows us is that the church is the temple of the living God. We individually are temples of the Holy Spirit in our bodies, but we are also living stones being built into a holy temple. And Revelation 21, when the New Jerusalem is revealed. uses language from Ezekiel. It picks up on the high mountain overlooking the holy city. It's a temple city, which we'll see when we get to the end of this description. at the end of the book in chapter 48. Uh even day after tomorrow when we come back and look at 45, we'll see that really the holiness of the temple extends to the entirety of the city because the Lord is there. The Lord is there. Which is the essential thing about New Jerusalem. So it's a picture of New Jerusalem. It's a picture of the church that's being built during this time. I think that's theologically the correct way to look at it. I think in the big picture biblically that's the right way to look at it. Where that view becomes difficult is in the details of these chapters. Because what do we do with the details that are in these chapters? They seem very specific. They seem very straightforward. They seem to be regulations about Levites and priests and the sons of Zadok. And how does that apply to us? Well, I think it's difficult to be sure. And so I think we need to be cautious and humble, and we can say some things. One possibility Is that part of what God is working in here into these chapters are practical instructions for how He wants temple worship to be conducted, because on a practical historical level, after Ezekiel There will be a second temple, and that second temple will stand for just about five hundred years. It gets rebuilt in five uh 517, 516 actually stands for over 500 years because then it stands until 70 AD. So almost almost 600 years that Second Temple stands. You realize 600 years is a long time. That's longer than the entire history of Europeans being in the New World. So you going all the way back 600 years ago would take us back to 1424, which is s 70 years almost before Columbus sails for the New World. That's a long time for that second temple to stand. And so perhaps part of what God is doing is weaving into this vision of this final temple Weaving into it some instructions for the way he wants temple worship to be done. The second part of this chapter with this is what the Levites have done wrong and they're going to be allowed to come back in, but they can never be priests, and this is what the sons of Zadok should do, because they were faithful. That part reads to me like very practical instructions that are being given to Israel for that second temple. Even though this isn't really a description of that second temple, and that's where I'm puzzled. And that's where I think I'm not sure exactly what to do with that. We can look at some of these things and apply them to the church. And then there's some really interesting details about this. Chapter that are just in that category of hm. Now that's interesting, right? And the first one is this east gate, the outer gate of the sanctuary. which faces east, and it was shut. This gate shall remain shut, it shall not be opened, and no one shall enter by it For the Lord, the God of Israel, has entered by it. Therefore it shall remain shut. Only the prince may sit in it. to eat bread before the Lord, he shall enter by way of the vestibule of the gate, and shall go out by the same way. So there's there's an interesting detail in Jerusalem, in Israel today. And that is the major gate on the east side of the Temple Mound, which is overlooking the Kidron Valley. Is shut up. It's completely walled up. And in fact, there are there are some tombs around the outside of it. Now it was walled up by Muslims in the Middle Ages. Who then put Muslim tombs around the outside of it because the Jewish people believe that that's the gate that Messiah would enter through. Well, that is the gate that Jesus did enter through. So that gate that Jesus, the Lord God in human flesh, the Prince, that he entered through is shut. That's just one of those hmm details. Right? And it's just it's there and it's it's just interesting. When you stand, you can stand on the Mount of Olives and look over the Kidron Valley and look at that gate and see that it's shut. And it's just a hmm interesting Detail. Now the Lord, the prince here Enters and eats bread before the Lord. The temple As a picture of the church, Jesus comes into our midst. And spiritually is present with us and eats bread before the Lord. So what happens in the Lord's Supper is the Lord Jesus comes and meets with us in a powerful way, in a way that he doesn't do any other time or place than at the Lord's table in the gathered worship of his people as the temple and he meets with us and and yet in the spirit he lifts us up before the presence of God so that we are also communing with all the saints throughout all the ages in the communion of the saints. And so there's that powerful picture that's a little bit hinted at here in verse 3. Other things that we can take from this We are priests. We are priests of God. And I do think that the way we conduct ourselves in the temple, in the temple the church in gathered worship should signify that we are the holy people of God. We are ministering before the Lord. And I also think there's a little bit of this role of the teacher and how important it is. James says not many of you should aspire to be teachers. because teachers will be held to a stricter account. The Levites were the teachers of the people in Israel, in Jerusalem. They were held to a higher standard because they led the people astray into idolatry. So I'm a teaching elder in the uh PCA, and anyone who's called to a ministerial office, who's called to be a minister of the Word and Sacrament, is a teacher of the Word with authority. with ordained authority, is held to a higher standard. And there is judgment for misleading the people of God. There is a a demand, a requirement to be faithful A workman is required to be faithful. And that is a high and holy charge. The Levites failed in that charge. They did not hold to it. They led the people astray into idolatry. And today we see many who claim to be ministers of the Lord Jesus Christ who are promoting the prosperity gospel. Or in the mainline churches, they've completely abandoned the biblical historical Christianity. They don't even believe that Jesus was born of a virgin and that he rose again from the dead and that he did many great miracles and then he's the only way of salvation. They don't even believe that. Now they still talk about Jesus and they still have Christmas and Easter services, but if you really got them And tried to pin them down. It's a little bit like trying to pin Jell O to the wall because they use all sorts of creative language to say, oh, of course there was a resurrection. And what they mean by that is a spiritual resurrection in the hearts of the disciples who believed he was alive. They're like slippery fish. You can't ov even grab a hold of them. They just keep slipping between your fingers when you try to try to get what they really believe. But the truth is that most mainline churches Episcopal Church USA, PC USA, United Methodist, Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, United Church of Christ, these old mainline Protestant churches, they have no doctrinal standards whatsoever. There have been bishops in the Episcopal Church USA who were agnostic, meaning they weren't even sure there was a God. There have been priests and bishops in the United Methodist Church who who don't believe in the resurrection, who don't believe that Jesus is the incarnation of God. in human flesh, born of a virgin, lived a sinless life. They just they just deny, they deny basically the Apostles' Creed, the Nicene Creed, and the historicity of Scripture. And there's no accountability. There's a requirement. So you may find different pastors vary. I'm not saying every pastor of every Methodist church or every pastor of every PCUSA church is that way. That's not true. But they have no doctrinal standards. That's terrible. And so I'm thankful to be part of a denomination that holds doctrinal standards very seriously, and you must believe and you must you must teach the truth or there is accountability and you will be removed. And we've seen that happen regularly. Uh thankfully not too frequently because guys know coming in what's expected, but when people go astray, they are removed. And we are I'm thankful for that. And this chapter is another reminder to me of why that's important. It's important for me. but it's important for the whole church as well. So our takeaway from today, I think, is this. Be the holy people of God that God has called you to be Church is not about you being entertained. It is about the church gathering together to worship, to glorify, to enjoy, to delight in, to praise the Lord. So be the holy people of God that God has called you to be. And then when you go out into the world, there is kind of a change of clothing. You're not no longer In that same presence of God the way that you were in worship, but you go out as ambassadors. You go out as salt and light. You go out as those who represent the king and who take his word to the world. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your love for us. Thank you for this chapter. Thank you for this challenging section of Scripture. We pray that you would continue to write your word on our hearts. And conform us to the likeness of Jesus our Savior. We want to faithfully represent Him. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Ezekiel 44. Tomorrow we're going to be in the Psalms. Psalms 143, 144, and 145 are on tap. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the The Lord.