Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 1003. And we're back in the book of Ezekiel, Ezekiel 35. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, there is no one like you in heaven or on earth. You are the one true God, maker of everything. We thank you that we can come to you, we can look in your word, we can be taught by you, and we can grow in you. Grow us now by your Spirit in our knowledge and love of Jesus our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Ezekiel 35. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man Set your face against Mount Seir, and prophesy against it, and say to it, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am against you, Mountseir, and I will stretch out my hand against you. And I will make you a desolation and a waste. I will lay your cities waste, and you shall become a desolation, and you shall know that I am the Lord, because you cherished perpetual enity And gave over the people of Israel, gave over the people of Israel to the power of the sword at the time of their calamity. At the time of their final punishment, therefore as I live, declares the Lord God, I will prepare you for blood, and blood shall pursue you. Because you did not hate bloodshed, therefore blood shall pursue you. I will make Mount Seir a waste and a desolation, and I will cut off from it all who come and go, and I will fill its mountains with With the slain. On your hills, and in your valleys, and in all your ravines, those slain with the sword shall fall. I will make you a perpetual desolation. And your cities shall not be inhabited. Then you will know that I am the Lord. Because you said, these two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we shall take possession of them, although the Lord was there. Therefore, as I live, declares the Lord God, I will deal with you according to the anger and envy that you showed because of your hatred against them. And I will make myself known among them when I judge you, and you shall know that I am the Lord. I have heard all the revilings that you uttered against the mountains of Israel, saying, They are laid desolate, they are given us to devour, and you magnified yourselves against me with your mouth and multiplied your words against me, I heard it. Thus says the Lord God, while the whole earth rejoices, I will make you Desolate. As you rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel because it was desolate, so I will deal with you. You shall be desolate now. Sear and all eat of all of it, then they will know that I am the Lord. Ezekiel 35 is a prophecy against Mount Seir, which is in Edom. And so it really is against the Edomites. Remember, the Edomites are the descendants of Esau. the brother, right, of Jacob. Jacob I've loved, Esau I've hated. Jacob got the inheritance. Esau got a kingdom and was made into a great and powerful people. But there was this history of tension and stress between Edom and Judah and Israel. Now, Israel, when they're sacked by the Assyrians, Edom says, hey, we get a chance to go and plunder the mountains because they're left desolated, and that's more spoiled for us. And now Judah has been sacked by Babylon, and they say the same thing. These are the two kingdoms. that the Lord says in verse 10, because you said these two nations and these two countries are mine. It was first Israel in the north. that was sacked in seven twenty-two BC. And then Jerusalem and Judah in the south, which was finally sacked in five eighty-six. B C so about one hundred and twenty five years apart or more, hundred and forty years of Parnegus is closer to these two were sacked and And in response to both of these, Edom didn't say, oh, these are our cousins. This is so terrible. Let's see if we can go help them. Let's see if we can help them rebuild. They said, no, more for me, right? I get to have more and ha, I'm laughing at you. I'm going to take your stuff. Whatever little bit you have left, you're so weak and vulnerable now I can come in and get it And notice what the Lord says in verse 10. They said that about them even though the Lord was there. Even though they knew. They knew enough from their own history and from Esau and from what they were heard from the history, they knew about Yahweh. They knew about the Lord. And they did not respect the fact that these were his chosen people. They decided to go and take what they could get. This reminds me. of the bad shepherds from the last chapter in Ezekiel 34 that we were in a couple days ago. Those bad shepherds, they didn't look at the people of God as being precious to God. being those who should be protected and and fed and cared for. They looked at them as a source of income, a source of meeting their needs. And now Edom's doing it. It's it's bad for Edom to do this and they're going to be condemned, but it puts it even in a better Uh a starker light that even the shepherds within Israel were looking at, they're people of God that way. That's a wrong wrong thing to do. Today, there's all sorts of forces in the world who want to capitalize on and exploit the people of God, especially when we are spiritually weak and lacking in discernment and we are worldly, which is I I think pretty much the state that we're in, generally speaking, as the church in America. So politicians will exploit us for political gain, marketers will exploit us for selling books and and movies and whatever. They know that we'll buy it. if they're selling it. And they're not really caring for us. They're just lining their own pockets. And the world can't wait for us to be so so weak and so devastated that they can just sort of push us. Aside and exploit us fully. But the Lord is watching. The Lord is watching, and the Lord is an avenger Of his people. He will defend, protect, and establish his own. We need to stay faithful to him and we need to be aware of both the fake shepherds like we had in Ezekiel 34 and also the the world in Ezekiel 34. thirty five, there's people preying on the people of God. We need to make sure that we are not following after them or falling into the trap that they're setting. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this chapter. Thank you for calling us to be faithful to you. Thank you that you protect us and that you defend us. We don't need to defend ourselves. We don't need to fight for ourselves. We just need to trust you and hold tight to you and not chase after the world's approval or after the world's products that they're selling us. Because it's all a trap. And we are the people of God. So help us to be your people in heart and mind and speech Well that's Ezekiel thirty-five. Now tomorrow I'm very excited. Ezekiel thirty-six is a great, great chapter. So I hope I hope that you will be with me for tomorrow, and I hope that you will have a blessed day in the Lord.