Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 982nd day together. In the Word of God, and we're in Ezekiel chapter 21. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are matchless in your personality. Perfection in your holiness. You are set apart in a category by yourself. Perfect in all your ways, perfect in holiness and justice, perfect in compassion and grace. You always do what is right even when we cannot understand it, because you are far above and beyond us. We thank you for your word. We pray that you would teach us through Ezekiel. 21 today, and help us to walk by faith with you. Help us to trust you and to obey you, to follow you. Draw our hearts closer to Jesus through your word this morning. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Ezekiel 21. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, set your face toward Jerusalem and preach against the sanctuaries Prophesy against the land of Israel, and say to the land of Israel, Thus says the Lord, Behold, I am against you. and will draw my sword from its sheath, and I will cut off from you both righteous and wicked. Because I will cut off from you both righteous and wicked, therefore my sword shall be drawn from its sheath against all flesh. From south to north, and all flesh shall know that I am the Lord. I have drawn my sword from its sheath, it shall not be sheathed again. As for you, Son of Man Groan with breaking heart and bitter grief groan before their eyes And when they say to you, Why do you groan? you shall say, Because of the news that is coming, every heart will melt and all hands will melt Behold, it is coming and it will be fulfilled, declares the Lord God. And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord, Say, a sword, a sword is sharpened and also polished, sharpened for slaughter, polished. to flash like lightning. Or shall we rejoice? You have despised the rod, my son, with everything of wood So the sword is given to be polished, that it may be grasped in the hand. It is sharpened and polished to be given into the hand of the slayer. Cry out and wail, Son of Man. For it is against my people, it is against all the princes of Israel. They are delivered over to the sword with my people. Strike therefore upon your thigh. For it will not be a testing. What could it do if you despise the rod, declares the Lord God? As for you, Son of Man, prophesy. Clap your hands and let the sword come down twice. Yes, three times, the sword for those to be slain. It is the sword for the great slaughter which surrounds them, that their hearts may melt and many stumble. At all their gates I have given the glittering sword. Ah, it is made like lightning, it is taken up for slaughter, cut sharply to the right, set yourself to the left, wherever your face is directed I also will clap my hands, and I will satisfy my fury. I, the Lord, have spoken. The word of the Lord came to me again. As for you, son of man, mark two ways for the sword of the king of Babylon to come. Both of them shall come from the same land. and make a signpost, make it at the head of the way to a city. Make a way for the sword to come to Rabba of the Ammonites and to Judah into Jerusalem the fortified. For the king of Babylon stands at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination. He shakes the arrows, he consults the teraphim, he looks at the liver. Into his right hand comes the divination for Jerusalem, to set battering rams, to open the mouth with murder, to lift up the voice with shouting, to set battering rams against the gates, to cast up mounds, to build siege towers. But to them, it will seem like a false divination. They have sworn solemn oaths, but he brings their guilt to remembrance that they may be taken. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, because you have made your guilt to be remembered, in that your transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your deeds your sins appear, because you have come to remembrance, You shall be taken in hand. And you, O profane wicked one, Prince of Israel, whose day has come, the time of your final punishment, thus says the Lord God, remove The turban and take off the crown. Things shall not remain as they are Exalt that which is low, and bring low that which is exalted. A ruin, ruin, ruin, I will make it This also shall not be until he comes, the one to whom judgment belongs, and I will give it to him. And you, Son of Man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord God, concerning the Ammonites and concerning their reproach, say a sword A sword is drawn for the slaughter, it is polished to consume and to flash like lightning, while they see for you false visions. While they divine lies for you, to place you on the necks of the profane wicked, whose day has come, the time of their final punishment, returneth to its sheath In the place where you were created, in the land of your origin, I will judge you. And I will pour out my indignation upon you. I will blow upon you with the fire of my wrath, and I will deliver you into the hands of brutish men, skillful to destroy. You shall be fuel for the fire. Your blood shall be in the midst of the land. The Lord is sovereign over nations, kingdoms, the affairs of men. Even over things that are terrible terribly tragic, horribly unwelcome, the Lord is sovereign. He declared at the opening of the chapter for the sword to be unsheathed, to execute his justice, his vengeance, and then he declared at the end of the chapter for the sword to be sheathed again. And he uses Babylon to judge his people for their persistent idolatry and rebellion, but then he will judge Babylon for its violence. He also uses the Babylonians to judge the Ammonites, even though neither the Babylonians nor the Ammonites are his covenant people, because the Lord is sovereign over all the nations. He executes judgments in the earth. He raises up and he casts down. He sets limits. He accomplishes his will. Now, all of this, of course, is taking place in the context of a fallen world of brutally selfish and violent men who are accountable for their own actions. I was talking to someone the other day about this tension between the Lord being absolutely sovereign and people being responsible for their actions. And we believe that the Bible teaches what is sometimes called compatibilism, or that there is a compatibility, it's compatible between the sovereignty of God and the responsibility of people. God is sovereign, yes. But was it the king of Babylon who stopped and who practiced divination? A wicked and condemned practice, and then on the basis of that divination decided to invade two lands. Yes, he did that Is he responsible for his actions because the Lord is sovereign? Yes, he is responsible for his actions and the Lord is sovereign. These are compatible ideas. Human philosophers will kick against this. They will say, well, if the Lord is sovereign and he's controlling everything, then people can't be held accountable for their actions because they're not making their own decisions, and that's just not true. We don't understand how it is that the Lord can be sovereign and people can be making their own decisions, but the Lord is sovereign and people make their decisions that they are held accountable for. It wasn't like the Lord forced the King of Babylon to go and invade countries that he didn't really want to invade, or to conquer places where he was really just a peaceful guy who'd rather sit at home Home and admire his hanging gardens. No. God uses human means, the decisions of responsible human beings. To accomplish his purposes. So that's one of the things I think we need to see from Ezekiel 21. The other one is just a reminder of what our sin deserves. And what Christ took upon himself at the cross. Our sin deserves this kind of punishment. Our idolatry. Now, our hearts have been changed by the Holy Spirit. Under the new covenant, we're given a new heart, which will come up later in Ezekiel. So that we love the Lord and we want to do His will, and that is by the grace of God. But we still have so many sins that deserve the wrath of God. We deserve his justice, this kind of bloody justice. We deserve it. And yet Jesus took it upon himself. The sword that should have come against us came against Christ on Calvary, where he freely offered himself up. To bear the wrath of God that we deserve, so that we might receive the blessing of God that He deserves. So we need to be reminded. And when we are disciplined, when we are disciplined on this side of the cross, when Jesus has drunk the cup of wrath to its bottom, And we belong to the Lord, and all of our sins are forgiven. When we are disciplined, it is not in angry wrath. It is in fatherly care. It is the rod of discipline that we do respond to by God's grace because we do have tender hearts by God's grace. Now sometimes we can still be stubborn, and so the rod will have to be used, but not the sword of vengeance. That was settled by Christ on the cross. Cross. So we need to worship the Lord as the sovereign one while not denying human responsibility. And we need to be oh so thankful for the willing sacrifice of our Savior. that frees us from judgment and wrath and frees us to live as the beloved and forgiven children of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for Jesus our Savior. We thank you that He has taken all of our sins. In his body on the cross, that he has borne your wrath in our place. And we thank you. We pray that we would walk in faith, in joyful worship of the sovereign Lord of all the nations, in humble obedience. To the glory of your name, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Ezekiel 21. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 22. I hope you can. Join me for that. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.