Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's so good to be with you for our 994th day together in the Word of God. We're back in the book of Ezekiel. to pick up with Ezekiel 29. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your love and for your faithfulness. Thank you for your word, the truth that you give us. Thank you for Jesus, our Savior. The word made flesh. Thank you for your kingdom that you've made us a part of. Thank you for your purposes that never fail. Teach us through Ezekiel 29 today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel 29. In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt. Speak and say, Thus says the Lord God. Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, the great dragon that lies in the midst of his stream. that says, my Nile is my own, I made it for myself. I will put hooks in your jaws. And make the fish of your streams stick to your scales. And I will draw you up out of the midst of your streams with all the fish of your streams that stick to your scales. And I will cast you into the wilderness. You and all the fish of your streams, you shall fall, you shall fall on the open field. And not be brought back together or gathered. To the beasts of the earth and to the birds of the heavens, I give you as Food. Then all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am the Lord, because you have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel. When they grasped you with the hand, you broke and tore all their shoulders, and when they leaned on you, you broke and made all their loins to shape. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, behold, I will bring a sword upon you, and will cut off from you man and beast. And the land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste, they, then they will know that I am the Lord. Because you said, the Nile is mine, and I made it, therefore I am against you and against your streams, and I will make the land of you Egypt, an utter waste and desolation, from Migdal to Saiini, as far as the border of Cush. No foot of man shall pass through it, and no foot of beast shall pass through it. It shall be uninhabited. For forty years. Excuse me. And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of the desolated countries. And her cities shall be a desolation forty years among cities that are laid waste. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations. and disperse them through the countries. For thus says the Lord God, at the end of forty years I will gather the Egyptians from the peoples among whom they were scattered And I will restore the fortunes of Egypt and bring them back to the land of Patros, the land of their origin, and there they shall be a lowly kingdom. It shall be the most lowly of the kingdoms, and never again exalt itself above the nations, and I will make them so small that they will never again rule over the nations, and it shall never again be the radiance of the house. House of Is sorry, it shall never again be the reliance of the house of Israel, recalling their iniquity when they turn to them for aid. Then they will know that I am the Lord. In the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, son of man, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, made his army labor hard against Tyre. Every head was made bald, and every shoulder was rubbed bare, yet neither he nor his army got anything from Tyre to pay for the labor that he had performed against her Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he shall carry off its wealth and despoil it and plunder it, and it shall be the wages for his army. I have given him the land of Egypt as his payment, for which he labored, because he worked for me, declares the Lord God. On that day I will cause a horn to spring up for the house of Israel, and I will open your lips among them. Then they will know that I am the Lord. By the way, if you're watching this and you're wondering what this t-shirt is that I'm wearing, it's a Impact West Virginia, which is a ministry in uh Fairmont, West Virginia, that we did a mission trip to last summer. I'm wearing my Impact West Virginia t shirt today, a great ministry. Um they host short term mission teams during the summer and do Great work there in the Fairmont, West Virginia area. Okay, Ezekiel 29 is giving this oracle, this prophecy against Egypt. And remember, Egypt has been that place where Israel has been tempted to look to Egypt for reliance, for help. It's it's the the attractive world and its offer of support, its offer of help, its offer of salvation. Rescue. Instead of trusting in the Lord, they had a tendency to look to Egypt. And what's interesting here is the Lord says That because Egypt failed to be of support to his people when his people looked to them. So this is just an interesting thing because, of course, God condemned his people for looking to Egypt for support. And that was the reason why they were eventually conquered by the Assyrians, uh uh uh really by the Babylonians, but um is because they instead of relying on the Lord for their support, they were relying on Egypt. And so the Lord judged them for doing that. But on the other side, Egypt failed to come through on their promises. Remember from Isaiah that Israel had sent this huge gift of uh a caravan full of gold and offerings down to Egypt to get their help against the Assyrians When the when the Assyrians actually showed up, Egypt wasn't there to help them. And so the Lord ultimately delivered them um very dramatically from the Assyrians by wiping out 185,000 in one night and sent them off packing, but i they they failed and they were uh uh like leaning on a reed. There are these thick reeds that grow along the banks of the Nile and they would be made into papyrus. They could also be made into writing instruments and things like that. But you wouldn't want to use one as a support because if they broke or if they s if they collapsed, they would be very sharp and they would pierce you. And so that becomes a metaphor that the Lord uses to condemn Judah and Jerusalem to say, You should not have relied on them because they're gonna break and they're gonna hurt you. Well that's exactly what happened. They failed to come through in the time when they were most needed. They didn't show up. And now God is condemning them. And what's stunning is Egypt at this point in time is the oldest, though wealthiest, the most well-established civilization in the world. Egyptian civilization Probably the longest running mostly continuous, there's Old Kingdom and Middle Kingdom, and there's a invasion of the Hyksos and then there's the subjugation under the Kush, but more or less you have this continual Egyptian civilization for something like 5,000 years. years. And um we we kind of condensed that history, but by the time this time period here, about five seventies BC is along Egypt has been around for a couple thousand years already. Like the the pyramids were built 2,000 years prior to this. So 2,000 years prior to this. And they were still there as this great civilization. And what's stunning is the Lord says, basically your days are numbered. The Babylonians are going to conquer you. And then you're never again going to be independent and powerful, and you're never again going to extend your influence outside of your own borders. And that's even that This prophecy given about 571 BC, within three years, about 568 after this prophecy, Babylon conquers Egypt. And the Lord even says why. That's because Babylon had spent thirteen years besieging Tyre. Now they did bring Tyre under their subjugation. Tyre lost its independence, as the Lord had said. But Babylon was not able to destroy Tyre. Tyre, that's gonna wait until Ag Alexander the Great comes uh hundreds of years in the future. But while they do subjugate Tyre, they don't really get out of Tyre the great treasure that would have rewarded them for thirteen years of labor. And so the Lord says, because you were actually doing my work. Imagine this God, the Lord God of Israel, talking to Babylon about Tyre. Saying, you were doing my work in judging, I'm going to reward you by giving you Egypt. Stunning. It shouldn't be signing because the Lord is the sovereign one over the nations. We watch the news and we study history and we think we think, oh, what's happening in the world is just happening. No, there's nothing in the world that's just happening. Yes, people are making their decisions, and yes, people are responsible for the decisions that they make. But overarching and undergirding all of it is the absolute sovereignty of the Lord God Almighty, who is King of the nations. So he declares in 571 BC, that Egypt is going to be subjugated. They end up being under Babylon's rule for 40 years. And the Babylonian rule over Egypt is harsh. They really strip the land. It becomes an important source of revenue for Babylon. And so the land becomes devastated for forty years. But they never again become the great Egypt that they were for two thousand years prior to this. Never again. Because after the Babylonians are going to come under uh the Medes and the Persians, the Persian Empire will conquer them, and then they will come under the Greek Empire of Alexander the Great, and then they will come under the Roman Empire. And they're never again gonna be A dominant influence that would intimidate or or threaten anybody outside of their own borders. Pretty stunning that the Lord gives this word after After yes, the now the Egyptians had been subjugated by the Assyrians for a brief period of time, but really for the last two thousand years they were the global superpower. the Nile provided them with yearly flooding that would come in from the heart of Africa and that would provide them with the most fertile valley anywhere in the world. The Nile River Valley was the most fertile valley anywhere in the world. And the most predictably fertile. It didn't depend upon rainfall, which sometimes one season, next season doesn't come. It's river flooding supplied from the heart of Africa and And I've been to Lake Victoria in uh southern Uganda. That's one of the major sources of the Nile and it's a pretty big lake. It's not gonna dry up, right? And so the Nile continued to feed Egypt year after year after year. And so they were fabulously wealthy. They remained fabulously wealthy, but they were never again independent. So what do we get from this? This thought of ancient history. We need to remember that the the Lord God we worship, the one we call our Father in heaven. The Father of the Lord Jesus Christ is the sovereign Lord over the nations. We do not need to panic. Or get anxious about what's happening with Israel and Hezbollah and Hamas, or what's happening with Ukraine and Russia, or what might or might not happen with Iran, or China, and the South China Sea And Taiwan and all that the Lord is in control of it all. Does that mean that we're guaranteed to have a safe, comfortable life? No. God's people didn't have a safe, comfortable life. But when they got afraid And they turned to worldly help, to worldly solutions. God condemned that. God said, Trust me, I am in control. I know what I I'm doing. He's saying the same thing to us, to me, to you. Trust me, I am in control. I know what I'm doing. America's the great power in the world right now. Might not be much longer. We don't know. Might be for another couple hundred years. We don't know. We don't know, but God knows. And the same God who was in control of Babylon and Tyre and Egypt. is in control of America and China and Russia and Israel today. We can and we must trust him King Jesus is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He sits at the throne that is at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, and he is our Savior. He is our King. And he never stops praying for us. Father God, thank you for being the sovereign God over all the nations. Lord Jesus, thank you for being our Savior, King of Kings, Lord of Lords, the Most High King. over all the earth. We can trust you. You will never fail. You will accomplish all of your purposes. Egypt failed. Babylon failed. Tyre failed. The Roman Empire failed. All the great empires of men have risen and they have fallen as you have seen fit, but your kingdom endures. Help us to be loyal to you, King Jesus, and not any earthly king or kingdom. We pray this in your name. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for Ezekiel 29. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 30. Have a blessed day in the Lord.