Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 973rd day together in the Word of God. We've got a short chapter in front of us today. Ezekiel chapter 15. Just eight verses. Let's pray, and we will dig into God's word together. Father in heaven, you are so good, so faithful, so kind. You are so holy, so just and so gracious. Be with us today Please teach us from Ezekiel 15. Please write this on our hearts. Please convict us of the truth. Please help us to grow in our knowledge of you, in our love for you, in our fruitfulness for you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel 15, and the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, how does the wood of the vine surpass any wood? The vine branch that is among the trees of the forest, is wood taken from it to make anything? Do people take a peg from it to hang any vessel on it? Behold, it is given to the fire for fuel. When the fire has consumed both ends of it, and the middle of it is charred, is it useful for anything? Behold, when it was whole it was used for nothing, how much less, when the fire has consumed it and it is charred, can it ever be used for anything? Therefore, thus says the Lord God, like the wood of the vine among the trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire for fuel, so have I given up the inhabitants of Jerusalem And I will set my face against them. Though they escape from the fire, the fire shall yet consume them. And you will know that I am the Lord when I set my face against them. And I will make the land desolate, because they have acted faithlessly, declares the Lord God. So the Lord is speaking some very bold, very stark, very powerful things about his own people. about his holy city, Jerusalem. They're they're a useless vine. Why? Because they didn't bear fruit. The reason why you plant a vine and cultivate it and trim it is because you want the fruit that comes from that vine. You don't plant a vine because you want to see a thick woody stalk growing along the trellis that you can then take and make some furniture out of. You just don't do that. It's not what that's not what vine wood is for. Vine wood is for supporting fruit, producing, carrying the nutrients. out of the soil to the ends, the leaves, making the food, and then concentrating those sugars into the grapes and putting forth fruit You want fruit. Now there are some trees like apple trees, cherry trees, where the wood has a particularly fragrant aroma and you can use it to smoke meat and things like that. But but vine like vine wood isn't even really good for that. It's it's it's you can use it for fire. Not really useful for building. What's the point here? The point is this. God's grace sets apart his people. God's Spirit calls, God's word teaches, so that we might bear fruit. Jesus said to his disciples, You did not choose me, but I chose you that you should bear fruit, fruit that will last. And Jesus said in John 15, Ezekiel 15, a good passage to go to right after this is John 15. Jesus said in John 15, every branch that abides in me. Bears good fruit. But the branches that don't abide in the vine, bear Cut off, cast out, and burned up, because they don't bear fruit. Think of the parables that Jesus told about the talents. Those who were given five, they produced five more. Those who were given two produced two more. They were commended for their fruitfulness of The return of the investment that the Lord had given them. The guy who had one talent buried it in the ground, and he was chastised because what he was given by the Lord bore no fruit. It gave no return. So, this is what the Lord is looking for. And what kind of spiritual fruit is he looking for? Well, he's looking for the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control. the fruit of the Spirit. He's looking for the fruit of an impact on the lives of others by being vessels of God's Word and God's truth and God's love. You pray for others and God uses your prayers to bring about answers. You share the word with others and others grow. You share the gospel with others and they come Come to salvation, you yourself grow in Christ's likeness in loving, joyful, peaceful, patient, kind, good, faithful character. This is what God is looking for. His fruit, his word comes to us to bear fruit. That's the purpose of it. Now to bear fruit, his word has to be believed. It has to be received by faith. And it has to be The soil of our heart needs to be cultivated by the Holy Spirit, and we need to act in that faith to put forth the fruit. So our application today is very simple, short passage, short devotional. And that is, God's word has come into your life. Even today, through Ezekiel 15, God's word has come into your life. Is it bearing fruit? Is there change in you? Has your heart and life changed to be more like Jesus? Is there fruit in you? Is there fruit from you? Have you invested in the church, in evangelism, in missions? in discipleship. Whether you serve in the nursery and you pass along little tiny truths to little tiny children by singing Jesus loves me or teaching them little basic Bible verses or you teach junior church or you teach Sunday school or you host a Bible study in your home or you share the gospel with a family member or a friend or a co-worker or you pray for someone or you Ask how you can pray for people or you demonstrate more kindness and patience with your children or with your spouse that demonstrates how the love of Christ is shaping you. Is there fruit? in your life. For the church, for Forest Hill Church, are we bearing fruit Are people coming to know the Lord? Are people growing in the Lord? Is the gospel going out in evangelism and missions and outreach? Is there fruit being shown in our lives and then through our lives? That is what the Lord is seeking, and only the Holy Spirit Can do this work in us. And each one of us who is bearing fruit, we should have a desire to bear more fruit. Jesus said if you are bearing fruit, the Father is going to prune you. Which is painful involves cutting. He's going to prune you so that you might bear more fruit. That should be the earnest desire of our lives. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you've given us your word and you've given us your son. Because you love us, and in love you call us to be fruitful. Father, let us be fruitful vines, fruitful branches. May the fruit of the Spirit be born in us. And may spiritual fruit in the lives of others come from our testimony, our words, our prayers, that you are using by the power of your Holy Spirit to the eternal glory of your name. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well that is Ezekiel 15. Tomorrow we have a longer devotional ahead of us in Ezekiel 16. I hope you'll join me for that. And I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.