Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church On our 985th day together in the Word of God, we come to Ezekiel 23. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for meeting with us day by day as we've spent time in your word. Would you please speak to us through your word today and write it on our hearts that we might see and know and trust in Jesus, our great King and Redeemer? It's in his name. Name we pray. Amen. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. There were two women, the daughters of one mother. They played the whore in Egypt. They played the whore in their youth. There their breasts were pressed and their virgin bosoms handled Ohola was the name of the older, and Oholibah the name of her sister. They became mine. And they bore sons and daughters. As for their names, Ohola is Samaria, and Oholabah is Jerusalem. Ohola played the whore while she was mine, and she lusted after her lovers, the Assyrians, warriors clothed in purple, governors and commanders, all of them desirable young men horsemen riding on horses, she bestowed her whoring upon them, the choicest men of Assyria, all of them, and she defiled herself with all the idols of every one after whom she lusted. She did not give up her whoring that she had begun in Egypt in her youth, when she had lain with when when young sorry She began an ego, for in her youth men had lain with her, and handled her virgin bosom, and poured out their wharing lust upon her. Therefore I delivered her into the hands of her lovers, into the hands of the Assyrians, after whom she lusted There these uncovered her for nakedness, they seized her sons and her daughters, and as for her, they killed her with the sword, and she became a byword Among women when judgment had been exercised on her. Your sister, her sister, Oholibah, saw this And she became more corrupt than her sister in her lust and in her whoring, which was worse than that of her sister. horsemen riding on horses, all of them desirable young men, and I saw that she was defiled. They both took the same way, but she carried her whoring further. She saw men portrayed on the wall the images of the Chaldeans portrayed in vermilion wearing belts on their waists. with flowing turbans on their heads, all of them having the appearance of officers, a likeness of Babylonians whose native land was Chaldea When she saw them she lusted after them, and sent messengers to them in Chaldea. And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with their whoring lust. And after she was defiled by them, she turned from them in disgust, when she carried on her whoring so openly and flaunted her nakedness. I turned in disgust from her, as I had turned in disgust from her sister. Yet she increased her warring. Remembering the days of her youth when she played the whore in the land of Egypt, and lusted after her lovers there, whose members were like those of donkeys, and whose issue was like that of horses. Thus you longed for the lewdness of your youth when the Egyptians handled your bosom and pressed your young breasts. Therefore, O Holy God Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will stir up against you your lovers, from whom you turned in disgust, and I will bring them against you from every side. The Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, Picad, and Shoah and Koh, Koa, and all the Assyrians with them. Desirable young men, governors and commanders, all of them, officers and men of renown, all of them riding on horses, and they shall come against you from the north, with chariots and wagons, and a host of peoples, they shall set themselves against you on every side, with buckler, shield, and helmet, and I will commit the judgment to them. and they shall judge you according to their judgments, and I will direct my jealousy against you, that they may deal with you in fury. They shall cut off your nose, and your your ears, and your survivors shall fall by the sword. They shall seize your sons and your daughters, and your survivors shall be devoured by fire. They shall also strip you of your clothes and take away your beautiful jewels. Thus I will put an end to your lewdness. and your whoring begun in the land of Egypt, so that you shall not lift up your eyes to them or remember Egypt. Anymore. For thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will deliver you into the hands of those whom you hate, into the hands of those from whom you turned in disgust. And they shall deal with you in hatred, and take away all the fruit of your labor, and leave you naked and bare, and the nakedness of your whoring shall be uncovered. Your lewdness and your whoring have brought this upon you because you played the whore with the nations and defiled yourself with your idols. You have gone the way of your sister. Therefore I will give her cup into your hand. Thus says the Lord God You shall drink your sister's cup that is deep and large. You shall be laughed at and held in derision, for it contains much You will be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, a cup of horror and desolation, the cup of your sister, Samaria. You shall drink it and drain it out and gnaw its shards and tear your breasts. For I have spoken, declares the Lord, Lord God. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, because you have forgotten me and cast me behind your back, you yourself must bear the consequences of your lewdness and whoring. The Lord said to me, Son of man, will you judge Ohola and Oholibah? Declare to them their abominations, for they have committed adultery, and blood is on their hands. With their idols they have committed adultery, and they have even offered up to them for food the children whom they had borne to me. Moreover, this they have done to me. They have defiled my sanctuary on the same day, and profaned my Sabbath. For when they had slaughtered their children and sacrificed to their idols, on the same day they came into my sanctuary to profane it. And behold, this is what they did in my house. They even sent for men to come from afar, to whom a messenger was sent, and behold they came. For them, you bathed yourself, painted your eyes, and adorned yourself with ornaments. You sat on a stately couch, with a table spread before it, on which you had placed my incense and my oil. The sound of a carefree multitude was with her, and with men of the common sort, drunkards. were brought from the wilderness, and they put bracelets on the hands of the women, and beautiful crowns on their heads. Then I said of her, who was worn out by adultery, Now they will continue to use her for a whore, even her. For they have gone into her, as men go into a prostitute. Thus they went into Ohola and Oholibah, lewd women. But righteous men shall pass judgment on them with the sentence of adulteresses, and with the sentence of women who shed blood, because they are adulteresses And blood is on their hands. For thus says the Lord God, bring up a vast host against them. And the host shall stone them and cut them down with the swords. They shall kill their sons and their daughters and burn up their houses. Thus will I put an end to lewdness in the land. that all women may take warning and not commit lewdness as you have done. And they shall return your lewdness upon you. And you shall bear the penalty for your sinful idolatry. And you shall know that I am the Lord God. So many of the Lord's prophecies, his judgments, they end with this statement, You shall know that I am the Lord God. But we hear this, it's not just a sort of the end to the to the prophecy. It really is the driving purpose of what the Lord is seeking to accomplish here. When Jesus prayed in John 17 for his disciples and for the church, he said, This is eternal life, that they may know you, the one true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have. To know God, to know who the one true God is, and to know him is to have eternal life. is to be redeemed. And so the the object of God in all of these judgment prophecies is to reveal himself as the one true God, the one who declares what he's going to do and then does it so that they can know Okay, he's not like Baal, he's not like Asherah, he's not like the gods of the Egyptians and Ra and Osiris and Isis, he's not like the gods of the Chaldeans, the Babylonians, the Assyrians. He's not like any of these other gods. He speaks and he brings it to pass. He declares what is not yet to be. As evidence for that, God tells this story of two sisters, Ohola and Oholibah. Now Ohola, he tells us, represents Samaria. That's Israel, the northern ten tribes in the capital city of Samaria. And Oholigah is Jerusalem, that is Judah and Benjamin, the southern two tribes, along with a scattering of Levites. That is the remaining kingdom. Now, by this time in history, by the time Ezekiel 23 comes, remember he's in exile with a remnant of Jewish people, the people of Jerusalem. But a hundred and twenty, thirty years prior, the northern kingdom of Israel, with its capital in Samaria, had been completely wiped out. So that's why he says that Ohola is gone. Her her sons and daughters are scattered, and she herself has been killed by the Assyrians. The Assyrians conquered northern Israel. And they did so in such a way that they scattered the Israelites into other parts of the Assyrian Empire and they completely ended the northern kingdom of Israel and it has never been re-established. They are the lost tribes of Israel, the lost ten tribes. Some of the people who were left in the land mixed with others who were brought in, and they became the Samaritans, the Samaritans that we run into in the Gospels, who are Not really the people of God. They're not really God's covenant people. They have a mixed heritage and they have a mixed religion. So Israel ceases to exist. Now, the people of Judah, they would have looked and said, oh, those Israelites, they were terrible. They had terrible kings. They were terribly idolatrous. They made a terrible alliance with the Assyrians, how horrible they were. They got what they deserved. They had it coming. And what God says to Jerusalem and Judah is you're doing worse. You're doing worse. Because they hoard after the Assyrians, you also whored after the Assyrians, and now you're whoring after the Babylonians, and they're killing you. And now you're seeking to get out of it by going to Egypt again. You see, Judah wouldn't be Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Egypt. They just kept changing lovers. Saviors, redeemers, other than the Lord God. They wouldn't trust in the Lord God. The one time King Hezekiah actually trusted in the Lord God in 702 BC That's 115 years or so before uh Ezekiel's prophecy, the one time when Hezekiah sought the Lord and trusted him because the Egyptians didn't come to the rescue. Even though money had been sent to to bribe them off, they didn't come, so desperately left, Hezekiah cried out to the Lord. The Lord sent one angel wiped out 185,000 Assyrian soldiers, pushed back the Assyrian army, and delivered Jerusalem so that Jerusalem and Judah were the the single unconquered kingdom in the midst of a vast Assyrian Empire God had come to their rescue, but then they immediately stopped trusting him. They started sending envoys to the Babylonians and trying to work out an agreement with the Babylonians. How does this apply to us? Very often we will turn to the Lord when we have no other options. We'll try money to solve our problems. We'll try politics to solve our problems. We'll try our personal persuasive abilities, our manipulation, our cleverness. to solve our problems, create the good life for ourselves, secure ourselves. And only when all else fails Do we turn to the Lord and cry out and say, oh Lord, please help? And so often God comes to the rescue. He comes through for us. He reassures us of our forgiveness of sins and of his love for us, but then very soon we turn away again and we're tur looking to other things to satisfy us, other things to meet our needs. So we are no different from the people of the Old Testament where idolatry is our default mood until we have no other options and then we turn to the Lord and then as soon as he comes through for us we turn back to our idols. So we need to hear this, and we need to hear that God wants our hearts to be relying on Him, seeking Him, giving thanks to Him in good times. crying out to him in hard times and turning our backs on the idols of the world, not trusting in the things that the world trusts in. The world trusts in money and career and politics. and personality and social media followers and the approval of other people and all sorts of other things in order to secure our identity and security, we are to anchor our souls in the Lord The one true God, the Redeemer and King, who loves us and leads us and provides for us, we need to be faithful to Him. And we need to see, you know, Ezekiel 23 is kind of shocking language. It's really graphic language about adultery and sexual immorality because that's spiritually just what idolatry is. When we turn from Jesus to our bank account for our trust, when we turn from Jesus to our job for our trust, when we turn from Jesus to the approval of others for our trust, we are committing Spiritual adultery. We are being spiritually unfaithful, sexually immoral in a spiritual sense. It is evil. And we need to repent of it. We need to seek the Lord. We need to cry out to Him. We need to trust him because he is trustworthy. He's proven it by his son giving his life on the cross for us. There's no one else as trustworthy as the Lord. Heavenly Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you that He has given us life. Thank you that in Jesus we have forgiveness of our sins, reconciliation with you, a secure place in your family forever. Let us not forget those things and start to turn to ourselves or to the world. Let us look to you for our daily bread, for our forgiveness, for our protection. for everything we need for life and for eternity. We pray this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for Ezekiel 23. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 24. I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord, you can't even have a lot of people who are not going to be able to do that.