Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 962nd day together in the Word of God and we come today to Ezekiel chapter 8. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for your word, for the power of it, for the truth of it. For the opportunity we have to repent and believe, to turn and trust, to walk by faith with you today. Lead us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel chapter 8, in the sixth year, in the sixth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I sat in my house with the elders of Judah sitting before me. The hand of the Lord God fell upon me there. Then I looked, and behold, a form that had the appearance of a man. Below what appeared to be his waist was fire. And above his waist was something like the appearance of brightness, like gleaming metal. He put out the form of a hand and took me by a lock of my head. And the Spirit lifted me up between earth and heaven, and brought me in visions of God to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the gateway of the inner court that faces north. Where was the seat of the image of jealousy, which provokes to jealousy? And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, like the vision that I saw in the valley. Then he said to me, Son of man, lift up your eyes toward the north. So I lifted up my eyes toward the north And behold, north of the altar gate in the entrance was the image of jealousy. And he said to me, Son of man, do you see what they are doing? The great abominations The house of Israel are committing here to drive me from my sanctuary. But you will see still greater abomination. And he brought me to the entrance of the court. And when I looked, behold, there was a hole in the wall. Then he said to me, Son of man, dig in the wall. So I dug in the wall. And behold, there was an entrance. And he said to me, Go in and see the vile abominations that they are committing here. So I went in and saw. And there, engraved on the wall, all around, was every form of creeping thing. things and loathsome beasts and all the idols of the house of Israel, and before them stood seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, with Jaazaniah, the son of Shaphan, standing among them. Each had his censor in his hand, and the smoke of the cloud of incense went up. They said to me, Son of man Have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark, each in his room of pictures? For they say, the Lord does not see us, the Lord has forsaken the land. He said also to me, You will see still greater abominations that they commit. Then he brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the house of the Lord, and behold, there sat women Weeping for Tammuz. Then he said to me, Have you seen this, O Son of Man? You will see still greater abominations than these. And he brought me into the inner court of the house of the Lord. And behold, at the entrance of the temple of the Lord, between the porch and the altar were about twenty-five men. With their backs to the temple of the Lord and their faces toward the east, worshipping the sun toward the east. Then he said to me, Have you seen this, O Son of Man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah to commit the abominations that they commit here, that they should fill the land with violence and provoke me still further to anger? Behold, they put the branch to their nose. Therefore I will act in My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. And though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, I will not hear them. What's going on here? Well, the temple itself, the temple itself has become a scene of abominable idolatry. It is what God had said in chapter seven. He gave them gifts. God gave them the temple. God gave them the instructions for building Well, God gave them this place of worship that was wonderful and glorious. And they took it and used it As a thing of pride. So the very first thing that Ezekiel sees in chapter 8 is the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of Man, the one like a Son of Man who's glorious, he has an appearance of a man. And he he forcibly lifts um Ezekiel up between heaven and earth and takes him in a vision to Jerusalem to show him. And there's this image of jealousy that's there in the entrance of the gateway to the inner court that faces north. And then north of the altar gate and the entrance, the image of jealousy. It's not named, but it's probably an image of a false god. In the temple, in the entranceway to the temple idolatry. And then he shows them this vision and says, dig in the wall, in the entrance to the court. And inside there are images engraved on the walls. Now, God has made it very clear in the second commandment, don't make images of things in heaven or on earth or under the earth to bow down to them and worship them. But here they are, worshipping images of all kinds of things, every form of creeping thing and loaths of beast, the idols of the house of Israel. And even the elders, the 70 elders and the high priest are there. This is Terrible, but think about how hundreds of years later there were no visible images in the temple. But the people of the leadership of Israel were so idolatrous in their worship of political power and status and money and wealth that the seventy, including the high priest would condemn the Lord Jesus Christ. The very one who's showing Ezekiel this vision, he's showing them the seventy elders here who are being so sinful and idolatrous, knowing that hundreds of years later Some 500 years later, 600 years later, there would be another group of 70 elders in the same place, in charge of the temple, running Israel spiritually, who would condemn him to death. Not because of statues and pictures, but because of an idolatrous love of Roman favor and status and power and wealth and influence He shows them, he shows Ezekiel twenty-five men between the porch and the altar, and they're facing toward the east, worshiping the sun. This is worshiping creation, worshiping created things rather than the creator. And um There's also these women who are who are worshiping Tammuz. Tammuz is a Mesopotamian cult. That celebrates a shepherd king and god of vegetation association with sacred marriage. And so you have the women worshiping Tamuz and the men worshiping the sun. It's all idolatry. Now, come into present day 2024. The church is the temple of the living God. Where do we see idolatry in the temple to be very clear? Okay, you have the Roman Catholic Church, which worships Mary as the Queen of Heaven. Heaven, and a perpetual virgin, and a co-redemptrix with Christ, that is idolatry. They set up statues of saints And they bow down before them and they light candles before them. That is idolatry. Mainline churches deny the authority of God's word. They they say clever things like, oh, the Bible contains the Word of God, which means some of what's in there is the Word of God and some of what's in there isn't the Word of God, and how do we know which is which? Well I get to decide which means I I sit in judgment over God's word instead of letting God's word sit in judgment over me. And what that practically means is anything that's politically incorrect or seemed to be out of date or offensive to our modern society, we're going to set it aside. Marriage is between a man and a woman, no, we're going to set that aside. Sex is only for marriage, no, we're going to set that aside. Life begins at conception and is precious in the womb. No, we're going to set that aside. Um, we're gonna set aside all the things that our culture doesn't really accept. That's what mainline churches do. And then within the conservative evangelical world you have the prosperity gospel, which flourishes especially in many charismatic uh churches. the name it and claim it word of faith movement that says you can you can pop uh formulate your positive confession of faith and claim your promise from God for a new car, a new house, perfect health, a problem free life. How'd that work for the apostles, I wonder? I guess they didn't have enough faith since eleven of the twelve of them died in poverty as martyrs. That's not the way of Jesus. Jesus said, take up your cross and follow. That's not the apostolic faith of the New Testament. The prosperity gospel is a false gospel. But so is the gospel of self-esteem. That God just wants you to feel happy about yourself and to be satisfied with yourself and learn to accept yourself, learn to forgive yourself. That's not the gospel. That's how Idolatry. It's the worship of self. So is the pursuit of the American dream in the name of Christianity? Just glossing it over. All of these things are idolatry. And we can all be guilty of them. And to the extent that they take deep root in the church, churches that are driven by entertainment rather than the worship of the one true God in reverence. This is idolatry. And God is God is not pleased. He is angry with idolatry. Because it takes the hearts of his people away from himself and puts them on the world, puts them on their own flesh, puts them in false promises. We must worship God. We are the temple of the Living God. Each Christian individually and the church together. We are the temple of the living God. We must worship God in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's Jesus here who is showing Ezekiel all these things. Is Jesus the Lord of the church? Is he the one we're seeking to meet with on Sunday mornings and worship? Is it his glory and his kingdom and his gospel that we are wanting to proclaim? Is it his worship that we are giving to him and to him alone? Let's be the holy people of God, the temple that worships the one true and living God. Let's pray. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, you are the one true God. May we be yours and you be ours. In sincerity and truth and devotion. In faith, in obedience, in love, and in worship and life. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that is Ezekiel chapter 8. We're going to be going back to Revelation tomorrow, I'm pretty sure. Hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.