Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word One Chapter Per Day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 1,009th day together in the Word of God, and we come to Ezekiel 39. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. Thank you so much for your faithfulness to us, for your word that is true and solid and such benefit and blessing to us. Father, please write this word on our hearts. Please lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. Please help us to see your truth and live by it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel 39, continuing this prophecy against Gog and Magog. We had sort of an interruption with 2 Corinthians 4, but we're back to it now. And you, son of man, prophesy against Gog and say, Thus says the Lord God. Behold, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince of Meshach and Tubal. And I will turn you about, and drive you forward, and bring you up from the uttermost parts of the north, and lead you against the mountains of Israel Then I will strike your bow from your left hand, and will make your arrows drop out of your right hand. You shall fall on the mountains of Israel, you and all your hordes, and the peoples who are with you. I will give you to birds of prey of every sort, and to the beasts of the field to be devoured. You shall fall in the open field, for I have spoken, declares the Lord God. I will send fire on Magog and on those who dwell securely in the coastlands, and they shall know that I am the Lord. And my holy name I will make known in the midst of my people Israel. And I will not let my holy name be profaned anymore. And the nations shall know that I am the Lord, the Holy One in Israel. Behold, it is coming. And it will be brought about, declares the Lord God. This is the day of which I have spoken. Then those who dwell in the cities of Israel will go out and make fires of the weapons and burn them. shields and bucklers, bow and arrows, clubs and spears, and they will make fires of them for seven years, so that they will not need to take wood out of the field, or cut down any of the forests For they will make their fires of the weapons. They will seize the spoil of those who despoiled them, and plunder those who plundered them, declares the Lord God. On that day I will give to Gog a place for burial in Israel, the valley of the travelers east of the sea It will block the travelers, for there Gog and all his multitude will be buried. It will be called the valley of Haman Gog. For seven months the house of Israel will be burying them in order to cleanse the land. All the people of the land will bury them, and it will bring them renown on the day that I show my glory, declares the Lord God. They will set apart men to travel through the land regularly and bury those travelers remaining on the face of the land so as to cleanse it. At the end of seven months they will make their search, and when these travel through the land and any one sees a human bone, then he shall set up a sign by it, till the barriers have buried it in the valley of Hamon Gog. Haman Hamana is also the name of the city. Thus shall they cleanse the land As for you, Son of Man, thus says the Lord God, speak to the birds of every sort, and to all beasts of the field. Assemble and come Gather from all around to the sacrificial feast that I am preparing for you, a great sacrificial feast on the mountains of Israel And you shall eat flesh and drink blood. You shall eat the flesh of the mighty and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams. of lambs, of he goats, of bulls, all of them fat beasts of Bashin. And you shall eat fat till you are filled, and drink blood till you are drunk at the sacrificial feast that I am preparing for you. And you shall be filled at my table with horses and charioteers, with mighty men and all kinds of warriors, declares the Lord God. And I will set my glory among the nations, and all the nations shall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I have laid on them. The house of Israel shall know that I am the Lord their God from that day forward. And the nations shall know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity. because they dealt so treacherously with me that I hid my face from them, and gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and they all fell by the sword. I dealt with them according to their uncleanness and their transgressions and hid my face from them. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Now I will restore the fortunes of Jacob, and have mercy on the whole house of Israel, and I will be jealous for my holy name. They shall forget their shame and all the treachery they have practiced against me when they dwell securely in their land, with none to make them afraid. when I have brought them back from the peoples, and gathered them from their enemies' lands, and through them have vindicated my holiness in the sight of many nations. Then they shall know that I am the Lord their God, because I sent them into exile among the nations, and then assembled them in their own land. I will leave none of them remaining among the nations any more, and I will not hide my spirit any more from them when sorry, I will not hide my face any more from them, when I pour out my spirit upon the house of Israel. declares the Lord God. So that is Ezekiel thirty-nine, which is continuing this prophecy against Gog, who is the chief prince of Magog, also known as Ezekiel uh Meshech and Tubol. So as I said before, when we were in chapter 38 a couple days ago, this is one of the most difficult chapters. in all of Scripture, one of those difficult passages in all of Scripture to interpret properly. We really don't know who Gog is or really even where Magog is This doesn't seem to match anything that's happened in recorded history, and but we do have a reference to Gog and Magog in the book of Revelation. So let's just start with what we know. And that is, these people are coming from the north. And Meshach and Tubal seem to be in present-day Turkey, which is to the north of Israel. And so when they when they come down from the north, they come to the mountains and there's a great battle and they end up they end up losing. Um but When is this going to happen? Well, there are some clues that we can see here because In verse 7, and my holy name I will make known in the midst of my people Israel, and I will not let my holy name be profaned anymore. and the nations shall know that I am the Lord, the Holy One in Israel. Behold, it is coming and is will be brought about, declares the Lord God. So this is a day of God revealing himself unmistakably. Um and so that is something very key. Um And then it's also a day of cleansing and of glory being revealed. Verse 13. All the people of the land will bury them, and it will bring them renown on the day that I show my glory, declares the Lord God. So with this as a background, it very much seems like this is happening at a time when God is revealing himself in a definitive way, in such a way that his name will never be Defiled again, there will be a great cleansing, and his glory will be revealed in such a way that all the nations will know that he is the Lord. Well that seems to be something that's only going to happen at the second coming of Jesus. And so if we go to the place where we find it mentioned in Revelation, I'm going to back up a little bit because the the other clue here, sorry, one more clue here, and that is that um the birds Of the air are called in verse 17. As for you, Son of Man, thus says the Lord God, speak to the birds of every sort. and to all the feasts of the field, assemble and come, gather from all around to the sacrificial feast I am preparing for you, a great sacrificial feast on the mountains of Israel. And you shall eat and drink blood. You shall eat the flesh of the mighty, drink the blood of the princes on earth. So this feast is mentioned really in the same place where Van Gog and Magog are mentioned. That's in Revelation 19 and 20. So Revelation 19, then I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He's clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the Word of God And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. So you see the nations are being shown that there's one true God. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Then I saw an angel standing in the sun with a loud voice. He called to all the birds that fly directly overhead, come gather for the great supper of God to eat the flesh of kings. the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses and their riders, the flesh of all men, both free and slave, both small and great. And so here is that feast scene from Ezekiel 39 that's being referenced here in Revelation 19. And then, if we go down to chapter 20, we have the final defeat of Satan. After a thousand years of being bound, and i if you missed my teaching on Revelation 20, you're going to need to go back and listen to that because I'm not going to be able to go into detail about it, but The thousand-year period of time is the church age, during which Satan is bound from deceiving the nations and preventing the gospel from going forward, but then at the end of that time he's released. He comes out to deceive the nations that are at the four corners of the earth. Revelation 20, verse 7, Gog and Magog to gather them for battle. Their number is like the sand. of the sea. So here we have dropped in right here in Revelation 20, Gog and Magog. That's obviously directly from Ezekiel 38 and 39. And here it's referenced as all the nations at the four corners of the earth who are gathered together for the Battle of Armageddon, the last battle, after which, because of the defeat of the armies, the birds of the air feast. This is another reason why I believe that the Thousand Years is a an interpolation where you're getting a different perspective on history because I think that this defeat of Satan here in chapter 20, verses 7 through 9. They marched over the broad plain of the earth, they surrounded the camp of the saints, but fire came down from heaven and consumed them. I think that's the same defeat as the one when Jesus comes. And the birds are invited to eat the Great Supper of God. And the one of the one of the pieces of evidence that makes me believe that these two passages, one in Revelation 19, are referring to the same event, is that they're both drawing on language directly from Ezekiel 39. So going back to Ezekiel 39 39, we're seeing that the language of Revelation 19 and 20 is both found here, gog and magog, and the birds of the air being called to feast upon The Great Sacrificial Feast is called in Ezekiel 39 and Ezekiel 40 it's called the Great Supper of God. Same event. So I believe that ultimately These chapters are pointing us to the end times confrontation when God's people are under attack by the world and Jesus comes to the rescue when he is revealed from heaven. He defeats the enemies of God's people. And there's so many the reason why it says seven months to clean up Seven is very symbolic, right? Seven is a a divinely appointed complete period of time. There's so many people who are wiped out in this final battle that it takes just a very long period of time. I don't know if that's a literal thing or if it's just a symbolic reference to how widespread it's going to be. In this same in this same battle context, I believe Um we're we're told that the wine press of the wrath of God is pressed out and the blood runs up to a horse's bridle for 1500 stadia around. That's a That's a very, very large number of people who are being killed. And if you think if the armies of the earth gather together against God's people and Jesus comes and wipes them out, that's going to be a massive A massive battle, uh not really much of a battle, but a massive execution of wrath. So that day is coming. And what will happen after that? God says, I will set my glory, verse twenty-one, among the nations. And the nations shall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I have laid on them. And that's what we see in Revelation, that God has then glorified among the nations, all the nations uh the redeemed of all the nations at least come into the new Jerusalem, the new heavens and the new earth. And there's no more defiling of God's name at that point. This is the only time where God's name is never going to be profaned again. It's the only time where the glory of God is so definitively revealed that all the nations of the earth know it without question. It's the only time when God's glory is truly set among the nations. All of these things are pointing to the second coming of Christ and that final day of judgment. At that point, God will gather in the whole house of Israel, which I believe is a reference to all of the people of God. From every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, Jew and Gentile, the twenty-four elders, Jewish and the church of the Gentiles, all brought together as one people of God. And our own land, with none of them remaining among the nations anymore, our own land, I believe, here is ultimately the new heavens and the new earth. And all the unbelievers of the nations will actually be shut out into the outer darkness and the lake of fire at this point. So, what do we take from this? No matter how bad things get in this world, know that it is only temporary That Jesus is coming again, that the final day of judgment will come. It's terrifying to think of Gog and Magog, the nations of the earth assembling to wage war against God's people. I'm sure that if we are alive when this time of worldwide persecution comes, because I believe it is going to come. I don't know when, but I think the Bible points to it. It's going to be a frightening time. Only by keeping the promises of God in our hearts, only by keeping eternity in view, will we have the faith to persevere. We're called to persevere. We're called to hold on to the faith. We're called to continue to hold out our testimony of the Lordship of Jesus. Christ. So whatever happens in life, however bad it seems, know that Jesus is still on his throne, Jesus is coming again, and we are called to persevere with that end. In view. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you have called us your own. We thank you that you've redeemed us from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. We thank you that you're gathering us as your people. And as we're going to start seeing tomorrow, you're building us into your holy temple. Build us up to glorify you and give us courage in a world that's often frightening. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you for joining me for Ezekiel 39. As I said in my prayer, we're going to go on to chapter 40, which is talking about the new temple. And we will dive into that tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.