Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It's our 964th day together in the Word of God, and we come today to Ezekiel chapter 9 as we continue this theme of the judgment on idolatry. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word that is full of truth. Help us to hear it and receive it by faith. Help us to see you and to give you glory. In Jesus' name. Amen Ezekiel 9. Then he cried in my ears with a loud voice, saying, Bring near the executioners of the city. Each with his destroying weapon in his hand. And behold, six men came from the direction of the upper gate which faces north, each with his weapon for slaughter in his hand. And with them was a man clothed in linen, with a writing case at his waist, and they went in and stood beside the bronze altar. Now, the glory of the God of Israel had gone up from the cherubim on which it rested to the threshold of the house. And he called for the man clothed in linen, who had the writing case at his waist. And the Lord said to him Pass through the city, through Jerusalem, and put a mark on the forehead of the men who sigh and groan over all the abominations that are committed in it And to the others, he said in my hearing, Pass through the city after him and strike. Your eye shall not spare, and you shall show no pity Kill old men outright, young men and maidens, little children and women, but touch no one on whom is the mark And begin at my sanctuary. So they began with the elders who were before the house of God, before the house. Then he said to them, Defile the house and fill the courts with the slain. Go out. So they went out and struck in the city. And while they were striking, and I was left alone, I fell upon my face and said, Ah, Lord God, will you destroy all the remnant of Israel in the outpouring of your wrath on Jerusalem? Then he said to me, The guilt of the house of Israel and Judah is exceedingly great. The land is full of blood. and the city full of injustice, for they say the Lord has forsaken the land, and the Lord does not see. As for me, my eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. I will bring their deeds upon their heads. And behold, the man clothed in linen, with the writing case at his waist, brought back word, saying, I have done as you commanded me. Now, in case you don't remember from last time, when it says, then he cried in my ears with loud voice, we have to go back to chapter 8 to see who the he is that he's talking about. And we got this picture of this man, one who has the appearance of a man Below his waist is what appears like fire. Above his waist, something like the appearance of brightness, like gleaming metal. This is Jesus. This is the Christ, the Son of God, God the Son. And so Jesus is the one leading the execution of his wrath. upon his people. He's always been the rightful king of his people. And his people have been disobedient to him. They have acted in unbelief. This is the key. They say Ah, the sin is great because they say the Lord will not see. This is down in verse 9. The land is full of blood, the city full of injustice, for they say, the Lord has forsaken the land, and the Lord does not see. So because they believe that God doesn't see what they're doing, that God doesn't care, God is going to judge because of their unbelief. God requires faith in response to what he has revealed of himself. And if God said He's going to dwell in His house, and He's going to dwell in the Holy City of Jerusalem, and He's going to dwell in the midst of His people, and He will watch over them. To care for them and to correct them, the people of God need to believe that. We need to actually believe what God has said to us. About his character and about his actions. It doesn't matter if we see it or not, if we feel it or not, if it makes sense to us or not, if it if it is What we think we're experiencing, if God has said it, God is no liar, his word is more sure than my perceptions than my feelings or than my understanding of my own experiences. I need to let the Word of God interpret my feelings and my experiences for me according to truth, according to the character of God. not according to my own subjectivity. You see, either God will be the sovereign interpreter, or I will try to be the sovereign interpreter And if I'm going to try to be the sovereign interpreter, then I'm taking the place of God. And I'm saying I will tell my own story according to what I think makes sense. sense according to what I understand, according to my perceptions, and according to my understanding of my own experiences. And whenever we do that. We're wrong. We're so misguided. We're led astray so easily because we are fallible. We are weak. We are selfish. We don't have all the knowledge. We don't have the purity of perspective. We don't have the depth of wisdom. We don't know what God is doing. And we're incredibly selfish and sinful in our disposition, so our natural bent is to excuse ourselves and to blame others, even to blame God, as the people in Jerusalem were doing. And so God says, pass through the city. But notice not everyone in Jerusalem. Because the first time that Jesus tells the angels to go through the city. It's to mark the foreheads of the men who sigh and groan over the abominations that are committed in it. This is parallel to what we read in Revelation chapter 7. where the people of God were sealed on their foreheads before the judgment of God was carried out on the rest. And that everyone was either sealed by God or they had the mark of the beast. Here, people are either sealed by God. as belonging to him because they have faith, because their hearts are after God's heart, or they don't belong to God because they don't have new hearts, they don't have a tender heart of faith, and they're put under judgment So, what we need to see here is our own heart, if it's guided by and responsive to the Word of God. So that we look around and we say, there are abominations. There is idolatry. There is great sin and wickedness. And God is right to judge. Don't listen to the talking heads on the cable news programs. Don't listen to your own reason or intuition. Don't listen to your own feelings. Let God's word be the authoritative lens through which we view the world. And then we will look around and realize This this world, this nation, this culture, even this church, is full of idolaters who turn away from the Lord, who seek their own pleasure? who live according to their own wishes and not according to the Word of God. And God is holy and God is just and He is right to judge. So we need to allow the Word of God to interpret that. And also we need to trust that when bad things happen and bad things come, if we belong to the Lord by faith. If we are his, and our hearts groan for the things that break his heart, and our hearts are moved by the things that move the heart of God, then we are kept. We are sealed. We are blessed. We are protected. And God will only bring what is good for us ultimately and eternally. May not feel good. I'm not talking about what feels good. I'm talking about what is good, and there is a world of difference between what feels good and what is good. God will bring to us what is good, what deepens our dependence upon Him, what deepens our prayer life. What draws us away from the world and away from our flesh and makes us more dependent on himself. We can trust him through this. Let his word be at the authoritative guide. Know that you are marked as his. And you are kept by him through tribulation and through judgment, and keep worshiping God through it all. Let's pray. Father, you are good, holy, just, right. There's no one like you. And there's no one who has any right to question you. Forgive us for times when we grumble and complain because our grumbling, our complaining, is really questioning you and your goodness, even though we would maybe deny that it's what it is. So forgive us and lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. Lead us in obedience to you. Lead us in joy and worship. For the glory of your name in and through us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Ezekiel chapter 9. Tomorrow we'll go on to chapter 10. I hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord. Father, and it's plenty of you named the bottom.