Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you For day 1019, and we are in Ezekiel 46. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is wonderful, and you are wonderful. And every part of your word has truth and instruction for us. These are the words of eternal life. All scripture is breathed out by you and is profitable for teaching. For rebuking, for correcting, for training in righteousness. So, Father, do your work in us by your word being applied to our hearts by the Holy Spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel forty six, thus says the Lord God. The gate of the inner court that faces east shall be shut on the six working days. But on the Sabbath day it shall be opened, and on the day of the new moon it shall be opened. The prince shall enter by the vestibule of the gate from the outside, and shall take his stand by the post of the gate The priests shall offer his burnt offerings and his peace offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate. Then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until evening The people of the land shall bow down at the entrance of the gate before the Lord on the Sabbaths and on the new moons. The burnt offering that the prince offers to the Lord on the Sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish and a ram without blemish. And the grain offering with the ram shall be an ephah, and the grain offering with the lambs shall be as much as he is able, together with a hen of oil and each to each ephah. On the day of the new moon, he shall offer a bull from the herd without blemish, and six lambs and a ram, which shall be without blemish. As a grain offering he shall provide an ephah with the bull, and an ephah with the ram, and with the lambs, as much as he is able, together with a hen of oil to each ephah. When the prince enters, he shall enter by the vestibule of the gate, and he shall go out by the same way. When the people of the land come before the Lord at the appointed feast. He who enters by the north gate to worship shall go out by the south gate, and he who enters by the south gate shall go out by the north gate. No one shall return by way of the gate by which he entered. But each shall go out straight ahead. When they enter, the prince shall enter with them, and when they go out, he shall go out. At the feasts and the appointed festivals, the grain offering with a young bull shall be an epha, and with the ram an ephah, and with the lambs as much as one is able to give, together with a hen of oil too an ephah. When the prince provides a free will offering, either a burnt offering or peace offerings as a free will offering to the Lord, the gate facing east shall be opened for him, and he shall offer his burnt offering or his peace offering. offerings as he does on the Sabbath day, then he shall go out, and after he has gone out, the gate shall be shut. You shall provide a lamb, a year old, without blemish, for a burnt offering to the Lord k daily. Morning by morning you shall provide it, and you shall provide a grain offering with it, morning by morning, one sixth of an ephah. and one third of a hen of oil to moisten the flour as a grain offering to the Lord. This is a perpetual statute. Thus the lamb and the meal offering and the oil shall be provided morning by morning for a regular burnt offering. Thus says the Lord God, if the prince makes a gift to any of his sons as an inheritance, It shall belong to his sons. It is their property by inheritance. But if he makes a gift out of his inheritance to one of his servants, it shall be his to the year of liberty. Then it shall revert to the prince. Surely it is his inheritance. It shall belong to his sons. The prince shall not take any of the inheritance of the people, thrusting them out of their property He shall give his sons their inheritance out of his own property, so that none of my people may be scattered from his property. Then he brought me through the entrance, which was at the side of the gate, to the north row of the holy chambers for the priests, and behold, a place was there. at the extreme western end of them. And he said to me, This is the place where the priests shall boil the guilt offering and the sin offering. and where they shall bake the grain offering in order not to bring them out into the outer court and so transmit holiness to the people. Then he brought me out to the outer court and led me around to the four corners of the court. And behold, in each corner of the court there was another court. In the four corners of the court there were small courts. Forty cubits long and thirty broad, the four were of the same size. On the inside, each around each of the four courts was a row of masonry. with hearths made at the bottom of the rows all around. Then he said to me, These are the kitchens where those who minister at the temple shall boil the sacrifices of the people. So, Ezekiel 46. We are continuing to get this very detailed description of the layout and the functioning of this temple, which we've called the eschatological temple or the end times temple, and which we've said is actually being fulfilled in the church partially and will be perfectly completely fulfilled in the revealed glorified church, the new Jerusalem that we see in Revelation 21 and 22. When we get to Ezekiel 47, the next chapter, which we'll get to the day after tomorrow, Lord willing. We'll see yet another reference to something from Revelation 22 as a parallel. So we're there there are all sorts of parallels that let us know that the la the closing chapters of Revelation are drawing on these chapters from Ezekiel to explain. And again, there's nothing that's happened in history to this point that that would describe this. And so It is it is possible that in this vision that these things have this symbolic significance of of things that are either taking place i in a spiritual sense within the church now or will be revealed when the glorified church is revealed at the second coming of Jesus And so we we have to be humble because this is a difficult text and we can't be too dogmatic. But here we're given some description of the prince and the priests and the people and the functioning of the sacrifices and the Sabbaths and the new moons. and and the the the daily offerings as well. So what we can draw we we can say true things from scripture that we can draw parallels from this text for, and that is that the worship of God is to be daily by every priest. That's we are each, each one of us who belong to the Lord. We are priests. We are a holy priesthood. A royal priesthood, because we are also princes. We are sons and daughters of the king heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ. And as priests, we offer daily sacrifice. The sacrifice we offer daily is the living sacrifice of our lives as an offering to God. And it is in that sense a whole burnt offering in that we are to hold nothing back and we are to offer ourselves completely unto the Lord. We're going to take up our cross daily and follow Christ as he offered himself up in worship. to his father in obedience to his father's will. Then there are weekly things that we do when we gather together on the Lord's Day. to worship. We we give offerings, tithes and offerings, we come and we sing, we pray together. So there's a special the prayer of God's people united together in worship that goes up before him as incense, so we bring the sacrifice of praise and the and and the prayers of God's people together every week. Now once a month at our church we have the Lord's Supper. We share in Communion as a special observance that is once a month on the first Sunday of the month. You could do that every week. You may go to a church that does that every week. I don't think you should do it any less frequently than once a month. But there are these patterns of worship. Some are daily, some are weekly, some are monthly, that are reflected in the life of the church. There's also some separation of church and state principles that are even had here because the prince, the government, he has limited authority. He can't just do whatever he wants. He really can't interfere with the life of the priests and And the offering of the sacrifices, those are commanded by God and they must be respected. There's also limits as to what the prince can do. So we see a separation of church and state. We see the rule of law. We see the limits. on governmental power that are all good biblical principles that are also reflected here in this text. But I think What I think we should draw from this is just the idea that we are called by God as the temple and as the priests to be a worshiping people Morning by morning, day by day, week by week, month by month, we should always be thinking about how we are worshiping God How we're called to worship God privately and with our families and with our church family day by day, week by week, month by month. Neglecting your personal responsibility to worship God yourself is wrong. Neglecting to gather your household together to worship the Lord is wrong. Neglecting the assembling of the saints together on the Lord's Day week by week is wrong. Neglecting taking the Lord's Supper and having that communion service on a regular basis is wrong. And so this is worship. This is what the Lord is due. And worship should always be according to the word. Some people say, Oh, I'm going to skip church today and we're going to go for a walk as a family through a national park or through a state park because it's just so beautiful. And we will worship God by being out in his creation. That's not what God has commanded. That's not what God calls us to do. We are to not neglect the assembling of ourselves together so that we can Encourage one another and build each other up so that we can sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs to one another, being filled with the Spirit and exercising our spiritual gifts for the building up of the body of Christ together. You say, well, I don't really feel like reading my Bible. I'll just watch, you know, some video and listen to some Christian music. Well, is is that what God wants? God wants you to be in His Word and in prayer. Not just passively being entertained by something you're watching or listening to. He wants your heart engaged with the word and with prayer. So our worship must shape our lives personally, as a family, and as a church, on that daily and continually and weekly and monthly basis. I think that's a good lesson to draw from Ezekiel forty-six. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are holy, holy, holy, and you are truly worthy of all of our worship. And we must worship you faithfully according to your word, not according to human imagination. So, Father, lead us in being faithful in our personal worship of you, in our family worship of you, and And in our church family gathered as the body of Christ, worship of you. May we not neglect to worship you in spirit and in truth. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, that is Ezekiel 46. Tomorrow we're going to be going back to 2 Corinthians. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.