Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Day 976 brings us to Ezekiel 17. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It is truth, and it is what we need. Feed us with your word. Today, lead us to walk in your ways. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel seventeen The word of the Lord came to me, son of man, propound a riddle and speak a parable. to the house of Israel. Say, Thus says the Lord God, a great eagle with great wings and long pinions, rich in plumage of many colors, came to Lebanon and took the top of the cedar He broke off the topmost of its young twigs, and carried it to a land of trade, and set it in a city of merchants. Then he took the seed of the land and planted it in fertile soil He placed beside it he placed it beside abundant waters. He set it like a willow twig, and it sprouted and became a low spreading vine, and its branches turned toward him, and its roots remained where it stood. So it became a vine, and produced branches, and put out boughs. And there was another great eagle with great wings and much plumage. And behold, this vine bent its roots toward him, and shot forth its branches toward him from the bed where it was planted, that he might water it. It had been planted on good soil by abundant waters, that it might produce branches and bear fruit and become a noble vine. Say, Thus says the Lord God, will it thrive? Will he not pull up its roots and cut off its fruit so that it withers, so that all its fresh sprouting leaves wither? It will not take a strong arm or many people to pull it up from its roots. Behold, it is planted, will it thrive Will it not utterly wither when the east wind strikes it, wither away on the bed where it sprouted? Then the word of the Lord came to me, Say now to the rebellious house, Do you not know what these things? Tell them, behold, the king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and took her king and her princes and brought them to him to Babylon. And he took one of the royal offspring and made a covenant with him, putting him under oath, the chief men of the land he had taken away, that the kingdom might be humble. And not lift herself up, and keep his covenant that it might stand. But he rebelled against him by sending his ambassadors to Egypt. That they might give him horses and a large army, will it thrive? Can one escape who does such things? Can he break the covenant and yet escape? As I live, declares the Lord God, surely, in the place where the king dwells, who made him king, whose oath he despised, and whose covenant with him he broke in Babylon, he shall die. Pharaoh, with his mighty army and great company, will not help him in war. When mounds are cast up and siege walls put built to cut off many lives, he despised the oath in breaking the covenant. And behold, he gave his hand and did all these things he shall not escape. Therefore, thus says the Lord God As I live, surely it is my oath that he despised, and my covenant that he broke. I will return it upon his head. I will spread my net over him, and he shall be taken in my snare, and I will bring him to Babylon and enter into judgment with him there for the treachery he has committed against me. And all the pick of his troops shall fall by the sword, and the survivors shall be scattered to every wind. And you shall know that I am the Lord I have spoken. Thus says the Lord God, I myself will take a sprig from the lofty top of the cedar, and I will set it out. I will break off from the topmost of its young twigs a tender one, and I myself will plant it on a high and lofty mountain On the mountain height of Israel will I plant it, that it may bear branches and produce fruit and become a noble cedar, and under it will dwell every kind of bird, in the shade of its branches birds of every sort will nest. And all the trees of the field shall know that I am the Lord. I bring low the high tree and make high the low tree, dry up the green tree, and make the dry tree flourish. I am the Lord. I have spoken. And I will do it. Amen. That's Ezekiel seventeen. So it's interesting. We've got these stories. Ezekiel does these Earlier chapters of Ezekiel he does these powerful demonstrations that God calls him to do, like laying on one side for hundreds of days on the other side and making a fire of of dung and you know, putting a brick and building uh ramparts against it and then cutting a hole in the wall and taking his baggage for exile. All that stuff from the early chapters a lot of like living parables. Now these sixteen, seventeen are are extended parables. This one is actually you could call it a a a fable. that's that's the form that it takes. Um, because you've got eagles who are doing things that normally only people would do. Eagles don't plant uh uh branches to become vines and then look for fruit from them. That's not something the eagles do right and so this is the literarily the form of a fable or we could call it a parable And before in chapter 16, and we looked at a couple days ago, the focus was on Israel as the bride of the Lord. And it was very human and very personal. Here, the focus is much more on the political realities that Israel is facing. And the two great eagles here are Babylon and Egypt. We're told that later in the chapter. The great eagle with great wings, long pinions, rich in plumage of many colors, this is Babylon. Babylon conquers Israel, conquers Jerusalem, takes the royal family into exile, sets one of the royal sons on the throne, and makes a covenant with Jerusalem to say you're going to be our vassal state. And they say, Okay, we'll be your vassal state, we'll pay the tribute, and we'll be loyal to you. But then there's another great eagle with great wings and much plumage. Notice he's not quite as fabulous, rich in plumage of many colors, but just But just, you know, much plumage. This is Egypt. Babylon, I said, represents the world and its power and splendor. Especially as it tends to oppress God's people. And here Babylon has conquered Jerusalem, has taken the king captive, has put a king on the throne to be a vassal state. It has subdued. Egypt is the promise of the world that is tempting God's people to trust in its power to deliver Egypt is just as dangerous as Babylon and sometimes more so, because it pretends to be a friend. It pretends to be an ally. And it's It's not. It's not reliable. It's pagan, it's idolatrous, it's y way back in Israel's history, hundreds of years before this, to King Solomon His descent down the road toward idolatry and unfaithfulness began when he took the daughter of Pharaoh as his bride. She was the first foreign princess who came Came in and the foreign princesses brought their idols and that whole story. So this is not good. Egypt is not good. This is another lesson for us that we need to resist Egypt. And not sometimes out of fear of Babylon we can run to Egypt for help. Sometimes we think We see like obviously, so let me just say, we see obviously anti-Christian things, we see obviously persecuting, oppressing things, and so we look for worldly help. Worldly rescue from people who pretend to be allies but are not, are just as pagan, just as immoral But they're wooing us and tempting us. And it will not work. The question is, will it thrive? Will it thrive? No, no, no, no, no. It will not work. It will not work. It cannot work. The vine will wither under the judgment of God because ultimately it was God's sovereignty. that placed Jerusalem under Babylon and they needed to accept that as discipline, punishment from the Lord, and keep that covenant oath. It made if you make a covenant oath, you keep it They had made a covenant oath and now they're breaking it. So, not good. But the good news comes in the end of the chapter, where God says, I myself. We'll take us a break. God says he's going to act. This, I believe, is the new covenant, the everlasting covenant, just as at the end of chapter sixteen, at the end of the the adulterous woman's Terrible behavior. God says, but I'm going to establish an eternal covenant with you, and I'm going to atone for all your sins. Here, he says, I'm going to take a sprig. And I'm gonna set out and I'm gonna plant it. And Jesus said to Peter, I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. That's, I believe, the end of this chapter is that now God is building his church. Christ is building his church. And so Babylon, Egypt, don't fear them, don't ally with them. Focus on King Jesus and honor him. Let's pray. Father, thank you for calling us to be your people, your kingdom, your dearly loved, cherished ones. Thank you for planting us. Thank you for making us fruitful. May we be loyal to you in heart and soul, priority and behavior. May you keep us and guard us and grow us. For your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That is Ezekiel 17. Thank you so much for joining me tomorrow. We're going to move on to Ezekiel 18, and I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.