Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church On our 967th day together in the Word of God, we're back in Ezekiel for Ezekiel 11. Let's pray. Father in heaven. We need you to be our teacher and our guide through your word, that we might know the truth, that we might love you and respond to you in faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of the house of the Lord, which faceth east. And behold, at the entrance of the gateway, there were twenty-five men And I saw among them Jaezaniah, the son of Azur, and Pelathiah, the son of Benea, pre princes of the people. And he said to me, Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity, and who give wicked counsel in this city, who say, The time is not near to build houses This city is the cauldron, and we are the meat. Therefore prophesy against them. Prophesy, O Son of Man. And the Spirit of the Lord fell upon me, and he said to me, Say, Thus says the Lord, So you think, O house of Israel For I know the things that come into your mind. You have multiplied your slain in the city, and have filled its streets with the slain. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Your slain, whom you have laid in the midst of it, they are the meat, and this city is the cauldron, but you shall be brought out of the midst of it. You have feared the sword, and I will bring the sword again upon you, declares the Lord God. And I will bring you out of the midst of it. And give you into the hands of foreigners and execute judgments upon you. You shall fall by the sword. I will judge you at the border of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord. This city shall not be your cauldron, nor shall you be meet in the midst of it. I will judge you at the border of Israel And you shall know that I am the Lord. For you have not walked in my statutes nor obeyed my rules, but have acted according to the rules of the nations that are around you. And it came to pass as I was prophesying that Pelatiah, the son of Beneah, died. That I fell down on my face and cried out with a loud voice and said, Ah, Lord God! Will you make a full end of the remnant of Israel? And the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, your brethren Even your brothers, your kinsmen, the whole house of Israel, all of them, are those of whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Go far from the Lord to us. Sorry. Go far from the Lord. To us this land is given for a possession. Therefore say, Thus says the Lord God, though I removed them far off among the nations, and though I scattered them among the countries Yet I have been a sanctuary to them for a while in the countries where they have gone. Therefore say, thus says the Lord God I will gather you from the peoples and assemble you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel. And when they come there, they will remove from it all its detestable things and all its abominations. And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will put within them, and I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh, and give them a heart of flesh. that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God But as far as those, as for those whose heart goes after their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their deeds upon their own heads, declares the Lord God. Then the cherubim lifted up their wings with the wheels beside them, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them. And the glory of the Lord went up from the midst of the city, and stood on the mountain that is on the east side of the city. And the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to the exile. Then the vision that I had seen went up from me, and I told the exiles all the things that the Lord had shown me That is Ezekiel chapter eleven. So there are these wicked counselors Who are left back in the city of Jerusalem, and they are leading the people astray. And Ezekiel is called by God in this vision to see them. and to speak a word against them. Uh and so i i i they're going around saying basically um Don't build houses when you're in exile. In Jeremiah 29, if you remember, Jeremiah had sent a letter to those living in exile. It's very good to read Jeremiah and Ezekiel. Uh we read Jeremiah now we're in Ezekiel to sort of have them in mind. Because Jeremiah had sent a letter to the exiles in Babylon and told them to build houses and to plant crops and to seek the good of the people. But that's what Jazaniah and Pelatiah are speaking against. They're saying, no, don't build houses. And basically what God says back to them is, you guys are going to be judged. You're going to be judged. And it won't be in the city of Jerusalem necessarily. You're going to be judged at the borders of Israel. And even even during this time, we see that um Pelatiah the son of Benaiah dies. Now what's interesting is Ezekiel, even though he's the vessel of the Lord to bring these words of judgment, when when Pelatiah dies, he doesn't rejoice. He falls down before the Lord and says, Ah, Lord God, will you make a full end of the remnant of Israel? So This is kind of a good balance to what we looked at yesterday in Revelation. When God acts in judgment, He is just and true in all of his ways and in all of his judgments. But as we saw with Jeremiah, we also see with Ezekiel, to be a godly man, to be a to be a man after God's own heart, to be someone who is sensitive uh to the things of God and who's faithful to the things of God, when you see these judgments, it's still painful. Jeremiah wept over the city, he wept over his people. Here, Ezekiel is weeping over the death of Pelatiah, even though Pelatiah was a guy who was giving bad advice. He was still one of the princes of the people. And so Ezekiel is is shocked and and is and is grieving. So judgment comes, and God is right to bring the judgment, and he is just and true in all his ways. But we're not to be hard-hearted or callous about it. We can worship God and we can praise His name while we also are moved with compassion and even distressed over what we're seeing in the judgment unfolding on the world around us. And then really in response to Jeremiah's prayer of will you make a final end, God gives us remarkable promise. That even though he scattered the people because they're so idolatrist, and even though they're going to be sent into exile, he's going to bring them back. And when he gathers them, verse 17, and brings them back, verse 18, they will remove all the detestable things And all its abominations. And that's true. That's what happened historically. It's when the people of God returned from the Babylonian exile that they finally put away all of their idols. There were no more Baal worship, no more Asherah worship, no more making carved images of the gods of the nations, or even making carved images of Yahweh and the high places. They pretty much stuck with temple worship. at the altar and at the temple and no more no more outward idolatry. Of course their hearts were still hard because there's a second thing that So the first thing that happens is that the idols are gotten rid of, but then the second thing that needs to happen, verses 19 and 20, is to be given one heart and a new spirit. To have the heart of stone removed and the heart of flesh put in, so that we may walk in God's statutes and be his people and he be our God. That is a promise of the new covenant. The new covenant promise that Jeremiah gave in Jeremiah 31 and 32. This is Ezekiel's version of this new covenant promise. It's the promise of a new heart. It will get even more explicit in later chapters in Ezekiel, but this is what the people need ultimately is not just to be rid of their external idolatry. They need to be rid of their internal idolatry by having a united, undivided heart that loves the Lord and his ways And so God is going to give them that. God gives us that. And this is the word for us. I've heard a lot of words of judgment in Ezekiel. I think this is what the word for us today from the Lord is to be thankful. That he has kept this promise. If you belong to Jesus Christ by faith, you have been born again. You've been born again. That means you have a new heart, a heart of flesh. You are sensitive to the things of God. You are responsive to the Holy Spirit and to the Word of God. You worship God, not just externally, but from the heart. You love the Lord from the heart with gratitude. If that's true of you, praise God. Praise God that He's kept his new covenant promise. You don't deserve it. I don't deserve it, but God keeps it He doesn't treat us according to what we deserve. He treats us according to his love for us. So praise God. Hallelujah and amen. But if you're listening to this or watching this and you think, well, I don't know. I don't really love God. I'm just kind of going through the motions and I don't really I'm not really sensitive to the Holy Spirit. Well, talk to God about that. And to the extent that you want to talk to God about that, to the extent that that bothers you, that is actually the sign of a tender heart, a tender conscience. So you can praise God for that. God keeps his promises. God saves us from our enemies. From our idols? From ourselves. Father, thank you. Thank you for your saving grace, your amazing grace, greater than all of our sin. Greater than our hardened hearts, able to transform, redeem, and cleanse. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Ezekiel eleven. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter twelve. I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.