Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Hope you're doing very well on this day. It is day 974. Just pick a 1 in front of that and you get 1974, the year I was born. So anyway, kind of a cool number 974. And we come today, we come today to seriously one of the most graphic and compelling chapters in all of Scripture. This is a compelling image that the Lord is painting for us. Yesterday in chapter 15 we saw Jerusalem as the vine of the Lord, but here we're going to see Jerusalem as the bride. of the Lord. And it's it's quite a convicting chapter. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into his word this morning. Heavenly Father, there is no one like you. You alone are our God, our Father, our King. You're the one we need. You're the one we look to. Please speak to us today through Ezekiel 16. Please show us ourselves. Show us your church. Show us your calling. And be at work in us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel sixteen, again the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. Make known to Jerusalem her abominations, and say, Thus says the Lord God to Jerusalem, Your origin and your birth are of the land of the Canaanites. Your father was an Amorite and your mother a Hittite. And as for your birth, on the day you were born, your cord was not cut. nor were you washed with water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt, nor wrapped in swaddling cloths, no eye pitied you to do any of these things to you out of compassion for you. But you were cast out on the open field, for you were abhorred on the day that you were born. And when I passed by and saw you wallowing in your blood, I said to you, in your blood Live. I said to you in your blood, live! I made you flourish like a plant of the field, and you grew up and became tall and arrived at full adornment. Your breasts were formed, and your hair was grown, yet you were naked and bare. When I passed by you again And saw you. Behold, you were at the age for love. And I spread the corner of my garment over you and covered your nakedness, I made my vow to you and entered into a covenant with you, declares the Lord God, and you became mine. Then I bathed you with water, and washed off your blood from you, and anointed you with oil. I clothed you also with embroidered cloth and shod you with fine leather. I wrapped you in fine linen and covered you with silk and I adorned you with ornaments and put bracelets on your wrists and a chain on your neck, and I put a ring on your nose, and earrings in your ears, and a beautiful crown upon your head, thus you were admired. You were adorned, rather, with gold and silver, and your clothing was of fine linen and silk and embroidered cloth. You ate fine flour and honey and oil. You grew exceedingly beautiful. and advanced to royalty. And your renown went forth among the nations because of your beauty, for it was perfect through the splendor that I had bestowed on you. declares the Lord God. But you trusted in your beauty, and played the whore because of your renown, and lavished your whorings on any passer by Your beauty became his. You took some of your garments and made for yourself colorful shrines, and on them played the whore. The like has never been, nor ever shall be. You also took your beautiful jewels of my gold and my silver, which I had given you, and made for yourself images of men And with them played the whore. And you took your embroidered garments to cover them, and set my oil and incense before them? Also my bread that I gave you, I fed you with fine flour and oil and honey, and set before them a pleasing aroma. And so it was, declares the Lord. Lord God, and you took your sons and your daughters, whom you had borne to me. And these you sacrificed to them to be devoured. Were your whorings so small a matter that you slaughtered my children And delivered them up as an offering by fire to them? And in all your abominations And and your whorings, you did not remember the days of your youth when you were naked and bare, wallowing in your blood? And after All your wickedness, woe, woe to you, declares the Lord God. You built yourself a vaulted chamber, and made yourself a lofty place in every square, at the head of every street, you built your lofty place. and made your beauty an abomination, offering yourself to any passerby and multiplying your whorings. You also played the whore with the Egyptians. Your lustful neighbors, multiplying your whoring, to provoke me to anger. Behold, therefore, I stretched out my hand against you, and diminished your allotted portion, and delivered you. to the greed of your enemies, the daughters of the Philistines, who were ashamed of your lewd behavior. You played the whore also with the Assyrians because you were not satisfied. Yes, you played the whore with them. And still you were not satisfied. You multiplied your whoring also with the trading land of Chaldea. And even with this you were not satisfied. How sick is your heart, declares the Lord God, because you did all these things, the deeds of a brazen prostitute building your vaulted chamber at the head of every street and making your lofty place in every square. Yet you were not like a prostitute. Because you scorned payment. Adulterous wife who receives strangers instead of her husband Men give gifts to all prostitutes, but you gave your gifts to all your lovers, bribing them to come to you from every side with your whorings. So you were different from other women in your whorings. No one solicited you to play the whore. And you gave them payment. While no payment was given to you, therefore you were different. Therefore, O prostitute, hear the word of the Lord, thus says the Lord God, because your lust was poured out, and your nakedness uncovered, in your whorings with your lovers, and with all your abominable idols And because of the blood of your children that you gave to them, therefore, behold, I will gather all your lovers with whom you took pleasure, all those you loved, and all those you hated. I will gather them against you from every side, and will uncover your nakedness to them, that they may see all your nakedness, and I will judge you. As women who commit adultery and shed blood are judged, and bring upon you the blood of wrath and jealousy, and I will give you into their hands, and they shall throw down your vaulted chamber and break down your lofty places. They shall strip you of your clothes, and take your beautiful jewels, and leave you naked and bare. They shall bring up a crowd against you. And they shall stone you and cut you to pieces with their swords. And they shall burn your houses and execute judgments upon you in the sight of many women. I will make you stop playing the whore, and you shall also give payment no more. So will I satisfy my wrath on you, and my jealousy shall depart from you. I will be calm and will no more be angry. Because you have not remembered the days of your youth, but have enraged me. With all these things, therefore, behold, I have returned your deeds upon your head, declares the Lord God. Have you not committed lewdness? In addition to all your abominations. Behold. Everyone who uses Proverbs will use this proverb about you, like mother, like daughter. You are the daughter of your mother, who loathes her husband and her children, and you are the sister of your sisters. who loathed their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite, your father was an Amorite. Your elder sister is Samaria, who lived with her daughters to the north of you, and your younger sister who lived to the south of you is Sodom. with her daughters. Not only did you walk in their ways and do according to their abominations within a very little time, you were more corrupt than they in all your ways. As I live, declares the Lord God, your sister Sodom and her daughters have not done as you and your daughters have done. Behold. This was the guilt of your sister Sodom. She and her daughters had pride, excess of food, and prosperous ease, but did not aid the poor and needy They were haughty, and did an abomination before me, so I removed them when I saw it. Samaria has not committed half your sin You have committed more abominations than they, and have made your sisters appear righteous by the abominations that you have committed. Bear your disgrace. You also For you have intervened on behalf of your sisters because of your sins, in which you acted more abominably than they. They are more in the right than you. So be ashamed, you also, and hear your disgrace, for you have made your sisters appear righteous. I will restore their fortunes, both the fortunes of Sodom and her daughters, and the fortunes of Samaria and her daughters, and I will restore your own fortunes in their midst. that you may bear your disgrace and be ashamed of all that you have done, becoming a consolation to them. As for your sisters, Sodom and her daughters shall return to their former state, and Samaria and her daughters shall return to their former state. And you and your daughters shall return to your former state. Was not your sister Sodom a byword in your mouth in the days of your pride? Before your wickedness was uncovered. Now you have become an object of reproach for the daughters of Syria and all those around her, and for the daughters of the Philistines Those all around who despise you, you bear the penalty of your lewdness and abominations, declares the Lord. For thus says the Lord God, I will deal with you as you have done. You who have despised the oath in breaking the covenant, yet I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth. And I will establish for you an everlasting covenant. Then you will remember your way And be ashamed when you take your sisters, both your elder and your younger, and I give them to you as daughters, but not on account of the covenant with you. I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall know that I am the Lord, that you may remember and be confounded and never open your mouth again because of your shame. When I atone for you for all that you have done, declares the Lord God. What a stunning and gracious conclusion to an absolutely shocking chapter. We've been spending some time in the prophets, right? A long time in Jeremiah, a long time now in Ezekiel, before that in Isaiah. And this theme of idolatry and judgment and deserved judgment has been heavy. And you may you may get to the point where you think, wow, I mean God is really, really angry. Is is this really all that justified? I mean, I know they're worshiping idols and That's not right. But you know, people are influenced by their surrounding culture. And, you know, is it is it really that bad? Well, this chapter And this extended parable, this extended metaphor, imagery of the bride is giving us God's perspective on what's going on in his relationship with his people, and it's shocking. And yet at the end of it all At the end of all this unfaithfulness, at the end of all of this just disgusting behavior on behalf of God's people, God promises to establish an everlasting covenant. And to atone for you for all that you have done. It's amazing. And the amazing thing is that this is our story. Yes, God's talking about Jerusalem and Judah. And yes, he's talking about their surrounding nations. But this is us. This is our story. The church is the bride of Christ. We are the bride of Christ. What are we by nature? We're told at the beginning of this chapter what we are by nature. We are unwanted, hopeless, stillborn children, tossed out with the garbage. Spiritually, that is what we are. Ephesians 2 says we are born in sin and trespasses, born spiritually dead. Following everybody else in the world who is also spiritually dead, and yet walking around, serving Satan, serving the ways of the world, serving our own flesh. We're this bloody, dead, helpless, and God is the one who says to us, live. When we're in our blood, when we were dead in our trespasses, God, who is rich in mercy because of his great compassion, Ephesians 2. 4, made us alive. He made us alive by grace. Because of his love for us. He made us alive. And not only did he make us alive, but he has grown us spiritually. If you've grown at all spiritually, and you've been blessed at all spiritually, it is the work of God, not your own work. God has blessed you. God has blessed me. God has blessed his church. He's given us resources. We have Bibles, we have books. I'm sitting in a room here. You can see some of it behind me. I've got this wonderful reader's edition of the Bible, this wonderful commentary on the Psalms, but I've got shelves. And over here you can't even see it. It's a mess because I need to get more bookshelves. But but I'm blessed with I have so many copies of the Bible and so many great Christian books, commentaries. Devotionals, historical books, helps. We are blessed. You have the internet, you have YouTube, which is you know, lots and lots of great videos that are faithfully and well done. You have great treasures like the Bible Hub and Blue Letter Bible and I love the the ESV website from Crossway that I use here, which has all of the study notes for all of the different study Bibles. We're blessed. We're blessed materially. We're blessed with resources. And we are well off. As a church, as a people, we are well off. God's been gracious to us spiritually. If you have nothing else, spiritually, if you belong to Jesus Christ, you have been made alive when you were dead. You have been adopted as a child of God and made an heir of God and a co-heir with Christ. You have been given the Holy Spirit to dwell in you as a deposit. On your eternal inheritance. You've been given the promise of the abiding presence of God in you, with you, and for you. Sunday mornings were in Psalm 23. And we're looking at this with this wonderful perspective of God is God is with us, God is in us, God is for us. That's your inheritance. You're blessed And yet we have to ask ourselves, what do we do with the blessing? What are we doing with the blessing? Oh, I can't find time to read my Bible. I just have so many other things that I need to do. Oh, I don't know if I can share the gospel with that person. I'm kind of scared. What are they gonna say? Think about me. Yeah, I know I probably shouldn't be watching this movie. It's probably not pleasing to the Lord, but it's fun. I mean, come on, it's harmless. Let's not be legalistic about it. Oh, I know I should really tithe, but man, we're trying to save up for that vacation to Disney World. Or how am I going to play for pay for my kids' travel sports if I'm tithing and I'm giving money to missions? You know, I can't afford to give What do we do? We make compromises. We deprioritize God and His kingdom. Jesus said, seek first the kingdom of God and His Righteousness and all these things will be added to you. The first commandment is you shall have no other gods before me. Jesus said the greatest commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. And what do we do Everything but on some days. Everything but. We put off God. We pursue other things. James 4. 4 says that we are an adulterous people, adulterous people, that our friendship with the world is enmity. with God. So this chapter is describing us. The church in America, generally speaking, very wealthy, wealthiest church that's ever been in the history of the world. I remember back in the 90s, now 30 years ago, hearing uh Christian financial advisor Larry Burkett. speaking on the radio and talking about how the church in America has the financial resources to fulfill the Great Commission within our lifetimes. That was thirty years ago. But do you know that where Christians should be giving ten percent of their income to the church, Christians give two to three percent. They give a fourth of what they should be giving to the children. And then the churches only set aside about 1% of their budget on average for missions. 1% for missions. And of the 1% that's set apart for missions, only about 1% of that actually goes to Great Commission fulfilling Frontier's Unreached Peoples type missions, taking the gospel where Jesus is not known. So you take all the money that Christians have been given, like 2. 5%, and then 1% of that, and then 1% of that. That's what we're giving for the Great Commission to make disciples of all nations. How much do we spend on our streaming services? Or sports? And how much of that takes away from being able to prioritize the things that God has called us to? And I'm not trying to be Legalistic or put you on a guilt trip. I'm just trying to tell you what God's word says. We have been made beautiful. We have been blessed. And do we take the beauty and the blessing that God has given us and waste it? And this isn't even pressing the issue further Passage talks about sacrificing your children, sacrificing God's children in the fires Do you know in America, 60% of unwanted pregnancies are terminated by abortion? So in America, if a woman finds out she's pregnant and doesn't want to be pregnant, 60% of the time, six out of ten times, she decides to end that pregnancy with an abortion. And here's the little secret that people don't tell you. Many, many of those abortions are sought out by pro-life Christian women. They would say I'm pro-life. They would say this is my baby. They would say I'm a Christian. They go to church. But the fear The fear of what this baby might do. A lot of times they committed sexual immorality. Let's be real about it. It's the way people get pregnant. It's not by accident. Most of the time. Most of the time. There are extraordinary circumstances, but most of the time, 98, 99% of the time, it's because of choices. And then there's the fear that drives to termination. This is not good. I mean that's putting it mildly. The chapters I want us to see, Ezekiel 16 is our story. It's ours. Don't hide from it. Don't run from it. We sacrifice We sacrifice what should be tithes and offerings for missions and we give it to politicians. To win their favor. That's the same thing as Jerusalem going out and soliciting these foreign powers to come in and guard them because they don't trust the Lord to guard them. We will spend more time discussing, arguing, fighting for, giving money to political causes. that are of earthly value but no eternal spiritual value, and we will neglect the things of God for it. That's our story. And yet, and yet the Lord is gracious. He's calling us. He's calling you. He's calling me. He's calling all of us to repent. To seek our first love. To return to our first love. And he's promised us. He's fulfilled this promise. I will establish for you an everlasting covenant. I atone for all that you have done. Jesus did it. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain. He washed it white as snow. He said, it is finished. So we must praise the Lord, seek the Lord while he may be found, call upon him while he is near. Serve the Lord. Praise the Lord. Seek the Lord. Serve the Lord. He is our husband. He is our Lord. He's been far more gracious to us than we deserve. And he deserves everything that we can give him. in return. We will not be poorer for it. Let's pray. Father Your word is powerfully convicting, but your call is stunningly gracious. You love us. You want our loyalty not because you want to make us miserable, because you want to invite us into joy. You want to give our lives meaning and purpose that matters and that's eternal. You want to call us away from things that don't matter to things that do matter, away from things that distract to things that establish and strengthen us. So call us. Use us. Take us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for Ezekiel 16. Tomorrow we're going to go back to Revelation and uh God's given us a lot to think about today. I hope that this won't just be the end when the devotional ends, but we'll keep praying and keep reflecting and keep examining that we might praise the Lord and seek the Lord and serve the Lord. Work together. Have a blessed day in the Lord.