Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is our 965th day together in God's Word. We come to Ezekiel chapter 10, a hugely pivotal event in the life of the history of God's people, as the glory of the Lord leaves the temple. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we come to a sobering bit of history today. We ask that you would be our teacher, teach us from your word, help us to grow in wisdom. Help us to pray for, seek, desire, and dwell in your presence among us. As your people we pray in Jesus' name Ezekiel chapter ten Then I looked, and behold, on the expanse that was over the heads of the cherubim, there appeared above them Something like a sapphire, in appearance like a throne. And he said to the man clothed in linen, Go in among the whirling wheels, underneath the cherubim. Fill your hands with burning coals from between the cherubim and scatter them over the city. And he went in before my eyes. Now the cherubim were standing on the south side of the house when the man went in, and a cloud filled the inner court, and the glory of the Lord went up from the cherub to the threshold of the house. And the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was filled with the brightness of the glory of the Lord. And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard as far as the outer court, like the voice of God Almighty when he speaks. And when he commanded the man clothed in linen, Take fire from between the whirling wheels, from between the cherubim, he went in and stood beside a wheel. And a cherub stretched out his hand from between the cherub to the fire that was between the cherub. And he took out some of it and put it into the hands of the man clothed in linen, who took it and went out The cherubim appeared to have the form of a human hand under their wings. And I looked and behold, there were four wheels beside the cherubim. one beside each cherub, and the appearance of the wheels was like sparkling barrel. And as for their appearance, the four had the same likeness, as if a wheel were within a wheel When they went, they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went, but in whatever direction the front wheel faced, the others followed without turning as they went. And their whole body Their rims and their spokes, their wings and the wheels were full of eyes all around. And the wheels that the four of them had. As for the wheels, they were called, in my hearing, the whirling wheels. And everyone had four faces. The four faces was the face of the cherub, the second face was a human face, the third the face of a lion, the fourth the face of an eagle. And the cherub and the cherubin mounted up. These were the living creatures that I saw by the key bar canal. And when the cherubim went, the wheels went beside them. And when the cherubim lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the wheels did not turn from beside them. When they stood still, these stood still, and when they melted up, these melted up with them, for the spirit of the living creatures was in them. Then the glory of the Lord went out from the threshold of the house. and stood over the cherubim. And the cherubim lifted up their wings and mounted up from the earth before my eyes as they went out, with the wheels beside them. And they stood at the entrance of the east gate of the house of the Lord, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them. These were the living creatures that I saw underneath the God of Israel by the Kivar Canal, and I knew that they were cherubim. Each had four faces, and each had four wings. And underneath their wings was the likeness of human hands, and as for the likeness of their faces, they were the same faces whose appearance I had seen by the Kebar canal. Each of them went straight forward So the key verse here is verse 18. Then the glory of the Lord went out from the threshold of the house. and stood over the cherubim. And then verse 19, we read, they stood at the entrance of the east gate. of the house of the Lord, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them. So earlier in Ezekiel, the prophet had seen these four cherubim and the chariot throne of God on the move at the Kibar Canal, which is a thousand miles to the east of Jerusalem in present-day Iraq. in the Mesopotamia Babylon area. And that was a message that God could call Ezekiel, who is a priest and a prophet. could call him into service as his anointed one, even though he's a thousand miles away from the temple because God is not limited to only being at the temple. Well now, because of the great sin of Jerusalem, which is being judged violently by the wrath of God, as we saw yesterday in chapter nine. The glory of God is leaving. It's leaving the temple. No more will God dwell in the temple that Solomon had built and that God's people had worshipped him for hundreds of years. He's now leaving. And he will be with his people in exile, but he will not be in the temple anymore because The people had superstitiously believed in the temple. We know from Isaiah and from Jeremiah especially that the people trusted the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. And that because the temple stood in Jerusalem, that means Jerusalem can never be completely destroyed because the Lord would not allow his temple to be destroyed. Well the Lord is leaving his temple now. Because they have placed a superstitious hope in that temple, he's leaving. Now they will carry on the worship. Not even noticing that he's gone. Ezekiel sees the vision, Ezekiel sees this happening. But in terms of the priests who are functioning in the temple, in Jerusalem itself, they keep carrying on as though nothing has changed. Now, let's bring it home to us. The church is the temple of the living God. But some people put their faith in the church as the church, not as Christ's kingdom or to meet with Christ. Some people believe in religion or in my faith. This is the way people talk. They're like, oh religion is so good for us and oh religion is so helpful for us. And they say, oh my faith is so meaningful for me. And my faith has guided me through all of my trials. And it seems like, where is the Lord? Where is talk of God and Christ? Of the Lord? Instead, it's talk of religion and of my faith. And that is really a self-centered and superstitious view. And that's what the temple had become to the people in Jerusalem. It had become a self centered, man centered, we're doing these things, we believe in these things, we are trusting in these things. Surely we will not be disappointed. Rather than, what is a God-centered faith hears the word of the Lord. If you trust in God, you will hear the word of the Lord. You will heed the word of the Lord. You will believe, receive, act, live. On the basis of what God has revealed about Himself, and you will seek His glory and His kingdom and His power and His presence and His provision. Because you want God. You don't want my faith. You don't want religion. It's not formalism. It's not the externals of the external trappings, but it's the heart It's the substance which is Christ. I wonder sometimes with some churches, it's the glory of God left If Jesus didn't show up on Sunday morning and didn't meet with his people and didn't work through the through the prayers and and and the reading of Scripture and And the worship and the preaching of God's word to bring conviction and to bring challenge. If there was just no life to it, but it was just going through the motions, would people notice a difference? Would people care? I think we actually are seeing that in a lot of the mainline churches that have gone astray from the biblical faith and who have abandoned Fidelity to King Jesus and have chased after the world and its approval, I think we've seen the Holy Spirit is left. They are no longer true churches. They are empty shells of what they once were. Because Christ is not worshipped and the word of God is not believed and preached with authority. So the Holy Spirit doesn't show up. And most, you know, a lot of them are dwindling away to nothing because why bother? But some of them the people just keep going. And there's nothing there. There's no there there because the Lord is not there. We need the Lord. We need the Lord. Sometimes in our own personal lives we can get into the habit of Bible reading. Maybe you're watching these devotionals and listening to the Word of God, and maybe it's become like it's just a checklist of okay, get up in the morning and Let's be in God's word and I did that and then move on with my day. But you're not really seeking the Lord. You're not really earnestly praying that God would show Himself to you and would purify you. You see, the fire from between the cherubim is the coal from the altar, which is the purification. of God's people, so that we can worship him, so that we can be his and he is ours. Ultimately that's fulfilled in Jesus the sacrifice for our sins. Are we longing for that? Do we know that we need that? Are we looking for the Lord? Or are we just going through the motions and checking off boxes on our to-do list for our morning routine? Let's not be callous or routine when we gather for worship on Sunday morning or when we go to Him in His Word and in prayer morning by morning. We need the glory of the Lord. We need the presence of the Lord. We need God to be the substance. Or our faith is just my faith. And that's That ultimately is meaningless without Christ in the heart of it. Let's pray. Father, there is no one like you. Lord Jesus, you are our only Savior and our only King. Our good shepherd, our redeemer, our defender, our God. We need you. Be with us. Be with us. Be at work in us. Lead us, guide us, provide for us, protect us, but be with us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Ezekiel chapter ten. I hope that you do have a blessed day in the Lord, a day of walking with him and knowing his presence in your life.