Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Old Presbyterian Church. It's our 998th day together in the Word of God. And we are here in Ezekiel 32, continuing to take a look at Egypt and God's judgment on the pride of Pharaoh and Egypt. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you love us enough to not only create us and make us in your image. And call us to life in Christ, but to give us your word, the truth that we need for life. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts today, and that you would shape us to be more like Jesus for the time we spend We pray this in his name. Amen. Ezekiel 32. In the twelfth year. In the twelfth month. On the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. Raise a lamentation over Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and say to him, You consider yourself a lion of the nations. But you are like a dragon in the seas. You burst forth in your rivers, trouble the waters with your feet, and foul their rivers. Thus says the Lord God, I will throw my net over you with a host of many peoples, and they will haul you up in my dragnet. And I will cast you on the ground. On the open field I will fling you, and will cause all the birds of the heavens to settle on you. And I will gorge the beasts of the whole earth with you I will strew your flesh upon the mountains and fill the valleys with your carcasses. I will drench the land, even to the mountains with your flowing blood, and the ravines will be full of you. When I blot you out, I will cover the heavens and make their stars dark. I will cover the sun with a cloud, and all the moon shall not give its light All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over you, and put darkness on your land, declares the Lord God. I will trouble the hearts of many peoples when I bring your destruction among the nations into the countries that you have not known. I will make many peoples appalled at you, and the hair of their kings shall bristle with horror because of you. When I brandish my sword before them, they shall tremble every moment, every one, for his own life on the day of your downfall. For thus says the Lord God. The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon you. I will cause your multitude to fall by the swords of mighty ones, all of them most ruthless of nations. They shall bring to ruin the pride of Egypt, and all its multitude shall perish. I will destroy all its beasts from beside many waters, and no foot of man shall trouble them any more, nor shall the hoofs of beasts. Trouble them. Then I will make their waters clear, and cause their rivers to run like oil, declares the Lord God, when I make the land of Egypt desolate. And when the land is desolate of all that fills it, when I strike down all who dwell in it, then they will know that I am the Lord. This is a lamentation that shall be chanted. The daughters of the nations shall chant it. Over Egypt and over all her multitude shall they chant it, declares the Lord God. In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me Son of man wail over the multitude of Egypt and send them down, her and the daughters of majestic nations, to the world below, to those who have gone down to the pit. Whom do you surpass in beauty? Go down and be laid to rest with the uncircumcised. They shall fall amid those who are slain by the sword. Egypt is delivered to the sword. Drag her away and all her multitudes. The mighty chiefs shall speak of them, with their helpers out of the midst of Sheol. They have come down, they lie still, the uncircumcised slain by the sword. Assyria is there, and all her company, its graves all around it, all of them slain, fallen by the sword, whose graves are set in the uttermost parts of the pit, and her company is all around her grave. All of them slain, fallen by the sword who spread terror in the land of the living Elam is there, and all her multitude Around her grave, all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who went down uncircumcised into the world below, who spread their terror in the land of the living, and they bear their shame with those who go down to the pit. They have made her a bed among the slain with all her multitude, her graves all around it, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, for terror of them. was spread in the land of the living, and they bear their shame with those who go down to the pit. They are placed among the slain. Meshektubal is there, and all her multitude, her graves all around it, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, for they spread their terror in the land of the living. And they do not lie with the mighty, the fallen from among the the uncircumcised, who went down to Sheol with their weapons of war, whose swords were laid under their heads, and whose iniquities are upon their bones. For the terror of the mighty men was in the land of the living. But as for you, you shall be broken, and lie among the uncircumcised. with those who are slain by the sword. Edom is there, her kings and all her princes, who for all their might are laid with those who are killed by the sword. They lie with the uncircumcised, with those who go down to the pit. The princes of the north are there, all of them, and all the Sidonians who have gone down in shame with the slain For all the terror that they cause by their might, they lie uncircumcised with those who are slain by the sword, and bear their shame with those who go down to the pit. When Pharaoh sees them He will be comforted for all his multitude, Pharaoh, and all his army slain by the sword, declares the Lord God, for I spread terror in the land of the living. And he shall be laid to rest among the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword. Pharaoh and all his multitude, declares the Lord God. Lots of judgment. Lots of judgment in this chapter of many nations, the focus primarily being on Egypt But then all of these other nations that already already have been judged or are going to be judged. So we're told that this comes to Ezekiel in the twelfth year in the twelfth month, which calculating that the the Jewish calendar begins in April with or in the spring and the last month of the year. is is like March. So it's March of 585, which means it's about a year and a half or so after Jerusalem has been um taken and we know from history that the Babylonians after they sacked Jerusalem and defeated Judah they did go south to take um to take Egypt. And so then in verse 17, we're told that this is now the same year, the same month, but the fifteenth day of the month. when there's more of this lament and this word of woe that comes. Now we already looked yesterday. Excuse me, I've got a little something in my throat. But I have a nice hot fresh cup of coffee and that usually helps to soothe things out of the way. So, we already looked at why it was that Pharaoh and Egypt were being judged. We're given two reasons in Ezekiel. One is that they consistently failed. To come to the help of Judah and Jerusalem, which they had promised to do. Yes, Judah and Jerusalem were not supposed to enter into alliance with them, and God told them not to. And God judge them for going and relying on Egypt instead of relying on him. But on Egypt's part, once you've made promises, once you've received gifts of gold and and and you've entered into an alliance, you should keep your word. And they didn't keep their word. But the other issue is that they were so proud, so proud, of how clean and how wealthy and how ancient their society was. The Egyptians were incredibly wealthy. They supplied grain to vast areas of land, and so they made a lot of money off of trade. They had lots of gold. They had lots of of splendid palaces and temples and pyramids that were laid in I mean they buried more treasure with their dead pharaohs than most kingdoms had in the entirety of of their history. And so that pride was another reason why God judged them, because they came to think of themselves as being greater than anything else God made and deserving of the glory that should belong to God alone. So now we're not given so much reasons anymore as we're given kind of a graphic description of what's what's going to happen to them. First, it's in this allegorical language. Remember that Ezekiel speaks in such a way that everybody accuses him of being a maker of parables, and a lot of that's because he speaks in this abstract symbolic figurative language. Yesterday we had the the cedar tree language of Assyria and Egypt. Here we have the dragon She thinks of herself as a lion of the nations, you know, king of the beasts, royal in pride, but she's really a dragon, which means she's deceitful. She's slippery. She's untrustworthy. She's a danger to the nations. Not the lion leading and worthy of respect, but the dragon. And so she's going to be judged. And we're given this graphic image of how she's going to be judged. And then we're told in verse 11 exactly how this is going to be to come about, and that is that the sword of the king of Babylon will come upon you. So the earlier part through verse 10 is more like symbolic imagery. of this dragon and lots of lots of stirring imagery, but here it's the historical fact of what's going to happen. And they're going to be shocked because when the world looks at this wealthy, ancient, proud civilization that's always been slippery, always been deceitful. To just be laid open and completely devastated, everyone's gonna be in shock. They're gonna tremble. for their own life on the day of Egypt's downfall. Because when you see the great and the mighty fall, you think, well if this can happen to Egypt, what might happen to us? But Egypt is is humbled because in the grave there's no Higher or lower if you're uncircumcised. You see, we heard that repeated that they're uncircumcised. That means they're not in covenant with God They're not part of God's chosen people. So even though Judah and Jerusalem were like this little rinkidink kingdom and Egypt was this great and grand and glorious kingdom, Really, in death, Egypt sinks much lower because they go down with the multitude of the uncircumcised. And their land is desolate, and they go down, and then we find this section where all of these other ones who have been slain, Assyria and Elam, and Meshach Tubal, and Edom. And the princes of the north. And then Pharaoh sees them all. And they're in the same situation. They're in the same situation. They are laid to rest among the uncircumcised with those who are slain by the sword. That is a low, low condition. So one of the key messages from Ezekiel 32 that's distinct about it is that death is the great leveler. When you die, when this life passes away, it won't matter at all how much money you had in your bank account, how many followers you had on social media, what your influencer score was. how many people like you, how many, it won't even matter how many people show up at your funeral. What will matter is where you stand with God. Are you uncircumcised in your heart? Or has your heart been circumcised? Have you been born again? Do you belong to Jesus Christ? Are your sins forgiven? Because that's the only dividing line in death. In life we have all sorts of ways of dividing people up. This person's cooler than that person. This person's a trendsetter. This person's wealthy. This person's power flow politically. This person, you know, has a lot of charisma and is able to charm people. All of those things matter in life. They don't matter at all in death. The only thing that matters in death is do you belong to God? as his child through faith in Jesus Christ, or are you his enemy, in which case you die with the uncircumcised And you suffer shame forever. It's pretty blunt, but that's the message is being driven home here. It doesn't matter how great you are. How many people like you and praise you? How many people fear you? How many people follow you? It only matters where you stand with God. Heavenly Father, we thank you that in Jesus Christ you have given us full forgiveness of our sins, adoption as your children, and eternal life. May we stand with those who stand under your loving fatherhood, under your adoptive care under the blood of Jesus to cleanse our sins. May they be our brothers and sisters truly in life and in death. We thank you for Jesus our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Well, that is Ezekiel 32. Tomorrow we are going to jump to 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.