Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 988th day, together in the Word of God. just twelve away from one thousand. We'll be doing a thousand and ninety-six total by the time we get to the end of the year, Lord willing as the Lord gives us the glory. Grace to do that. Let's pray and ask for his help as we look at Ezekiel twenty-five today. Father in heaven, we thank you. You are so good to us. You're so faithful, never changing. Changing, unfailing God. We praise you, we thank you, and we ask that you would be our teacher today. Would you please write the truth of Ezekiel 25 in our souls that we might love Christ more, that we might be more faithful to you and your kingdom? We pray this in Jesus' name. Ezekiel 25, the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. Set your face toward the Ammonites and prophesy against them. Say to the Ammonites, Hear the word of the Lord God. Thus says the Lord God, because you said Aha over my sanctuary when it was profaned, and over the land of Israel when it was made desolate, and over the land of Judah when they went into exile, therefore, behold, I am handing you over to the the people of the east for a possession, and they shall set their encampments among you, and make their dwellings in your midst. They shall eat your fruit, and they shall drink your milk. I will make Rabbah a pasture for camels, and Ammon a fold for flocks. Then you will know that I I am the Lord. For thus says the Lord God, because you have clapped your hands and stamped your feet and rejoiced with all the malice within your soul against the land of Israel. Therefore, behold. I have stretched out my hand against you, and will hand you over as plunder to the nation And I will cut you off from the peoples and will make you perish out of the countries. I will destroy you. Then you will know that I am the Lord Lord Thus says the Lord God Because Moab and Seer said Behold the house of Judah is like all the other nations therefore I will lay open the flank of Moab from the cities, from its cities on its frontier. The glory of the country, Beth Jeshemoth, Baalmeon, and Kiraatham I will give it along with the Ammonites to the people of the East as a possession, that the Ammonites may be remembered no more among the nations. And I will execute judgments upon Moab. They will know that I am the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, because Edom acted revengefully against the house of Judah, and has grievously offended in taking Therefore, thus says the Lord God, I will stretch out my hand against Edom, and cut off from it man and beast, and I will make it desolate from team. Even to Dedan, they shall fall by the sword. And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people Israel. And they shall do in Edom according to my anger and according to my wrath, and they shall know my vengeance, declares the Lord God. Thus says the Lord God, because the Philistines acted revengefully and took vengeance with malice of soul to destroy in never-ending enmity. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will stretch out my hand against the Philistines, and I will cut off the Karahites, and destroy the rest of the sea coast. I will execute great vengeance on them with wrathful rebukes. Then they will know that I am the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon them. So here we come to the next major section in the book of Ezekiel, and that is these prophecies against the nation. And we're going to be in this section. for four chapters, so twenty-five and twenty-six, and then we're going to go do Revelation twenty-two, and then we'll come back and do twenty-seven and twenty-eight. And these are all oracles against the foreign nations that are all around Israel. So we have several nations mentioned here in chapter twenty-five and more that are coming in the chapters ahead. So it might be helpful to just look at a map, give ourselves a little bit of a visual for what we're seeing, what we're uh where are these nations, right? So we have um The first is the prophecy against Ammon, against the Ammonites. So you see that that area is in the orange, the kingdom of Amon Ammon, and it is it is to the northeast of Judah. And the Ammonites were major enemies of God's people. for years. This is a the area across the Jordan that was conquered. You might remember the the major kingdoms that were over there that were conquered by Joshua before he crossed the Jordan. and came into uh in into the promised land that to fight Jericho that they first conquered the kingdoms that were on the other side. Well this is the sort of resurgence of some of those areas and they just constantly had conflicts with the people of God on that eastern front. And then we go on to Moab, which is south of there, and then Edom, which is south of there, and then Philistia, which is to the west. So you can see these four kingdoms who are addressed in chapter twenty-five, they really kind of surround um they surround Judah to the northeast, to the east, to the south, and to the west. And And they're all spoken against here for one basic reason, and that is that they were against the people of God And that when God was disciplining his people and allowing them to come under the judgment by the Babylonians, uh these surrounding kingdoms, they were all either rejoicing, you know, clapping the hands, stamping the feet, that's that's celebrating, or they were actively plundering. mocking. They were they were piling on, right? So here comes Babylon. Babylon's already sort of raided or attacked all of these surrounding nations, but now they take out Judah, and Judah's neighbors rejoice. Misery loves company. So sometimes when people are in a bad state, they're miserable, they're dejected, they kind of like it when they see other people get what's coming to them. Right. Why should I be the only one who's hurting? Oh, he's hurting too. Well it was that's what was coming to him. That's not right. Right. We should have a tender heart toward those who are suffering. But the more pointed theological reason for these prophecies against these nations is that they are opposing for generation upon generation. They were determined opponents of the kingdom of God and of the one true God, the Lord of Israel. They were right there, close neighbors. They had heard the words of prophets, they had heard the words of the law, they had known the history of God's dealings with his people, and despite all of that knowledge They rejected. They rejected Yahweh, the Lord, the God of Israel. They rejected the temple worship. They rejected the Davidic dynasty. They rejected all that God was doing. in the people of Judah and Jerusalem. And as soon as they had an opportunity to get the upper hand, they took it. They were not at all moved with respect, honor, pity, compassion. Not at all. And so God tells them that they are going to be destroyed. The Lord tells them the people of the East are going to come. And they're going to plunder you. They're going to they're going to ransack you. You're going to be given to the people of the East, Ammonites are told. And then Moab and Seir also told, I'm going to be giving you along with the Ammonites to the people of the East. By the way, Ammon and Moab, these are the sons of Lot. Remember that really immoral part at the end of Lot's story where his daughters get him drunk and go in to lay with him and they father sons, one is Ammon, one's Moab. So these are terrible uh legacies from an immoral start. Edom, these are the descendants of Esau. And they're there and they're also um gonna be laid waste and gonna be made desolate by the people who come by the Babylonians. And it's not just the Babylonians, Babylonians really are a kingdom, an empire. But it's a multicultural, it's a multi-ethnic, it's a multinational empire uh that's led by the Cheltians or the Babylonians who are ruling over it. Finally, Philistia. This is a warning. How do we take uh application for ourselves? Well, in Revelation we've been seeing That God acts with justice and vengeance against people who are harsh and who are opposed to his people and to his kingdom. God is still a God of justice. He will bring justice to the earth when Jesus comes again. And there are these people, we know of them. They have close contact with Christians. They know who Jesus is. They've heard the Bible stories. They've heard the arguments for the existence of God and for the truth of Jesus. And they just are not moved by it They see the lives of Christians who share the gospel with them and they just don't want it. They don't want it. Some of them might have grown up in the church and walked away. Some of them claim that the reason why they walked away is because they had bad experiences in the church, which may be true. I mean I've had some bad experiences in the church, but I don't walk away from Jesus or his people. because of who he is and what his call is upon my life. And so these people, they kind of represent these nations around Judah and Jerusalem. They kind of represent people who have close contact with and regular exposure to the kingdom of God, and yet not only do they reject the gospel and the kingdom, but they rejoice when they see God's kingdom People suffering. You know, whenever a scandal breaks and a leader within the church is exposed and falls there's always people waiting to cheat And say, oh man, I told you all those Christians are just hypocrites. See, this just confirms what I always thought about these people. And they just they just hate the people of God. They hate the people God says He's gonna judge them. And yet, and yet, notice that God's prophet speaks. God's word goes out to them. It is a word of warning. It's a word that's against them. But There may be people among the Philistines, there may be people among the Edomites, there may be people among the Ammonites and the Moabites who hear this word and who say, we're being foolish as a nation. I should repent. I should trust in the Lord. And so even though there's judgment, there's also God being gracious and that God is speaking to Remember when when Jonah went to Nineveh? The message he brought was just, yet 40 days and Nineveh will be overthrown. It was a message of judgment. But Jonah had resentment because He knew that the Lord had sent him there to bring this message of judgment because the Lord wanted to be gracious and he wanted to see them repent and he wanted to Forgive them. Just as for generations, prophets had brought the message to God's people about judgment coming because God wanted his people to repent. So here, the Lord, even in speaking judgment, is being gracious. So, how what do we take from this? Well when the world hates Christians, when people badmouth the church, when people attack the people We can take comfort from the fact that Jesus is watching and Jesus is coming and he will make all things right in the end. But also we should take encouragement to speak the gospel. ever more clearly because God may call some of these people to repentance in faith. The enemies of God may become Children of God. Even as we did. Even as we did. Let's pray. Father, thank you for being gracious to us. Apart from your grace, we would be your enemy. It's not enough to see the evidence or hear logical arguments. Hearts must be changed by your spirit. You must be gracious. Father, we pray right now for those that we know and love, who have walked away from you, who have rejected you, who have stubbornly said, I will not believe, even though they've heard the truth. Pray that they would repent. Pray that you would be gracious to them. And when we feel discouraged by the world's hatred, let us remember that King Jesus is still on His throne, and he's coming again to make all things right. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Ezekiel twenty-five. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter twenty-six. I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.