Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I hope you're doing well And I'm glad you're back with us again for another day together in God's Word. We're here on day 1006. And we are closing in as we're in the last quarter of our last year, and we are going to a great chapter today, Ezekiel thirty-seven, and the valley of dry bones. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are so good to us. Your love is unfailing. Your kingdom is eternal. Oh, your ways are perfect, and you've given us your word. You've spoken to us. You've revealed yourself to us. You've given it to us in a language translated that we can understand and that we can discuss and Grow, we pray that you would come by your Holy Spirit and give life to us through this word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel 37, a very important passage for understanding so much theology, this relationship between the word and the spirit and And what it takes to be born again and saved and redeemed, and a little preview of the resurrection and oh just good stuff in this chapter. Good stuff in this cup here, too. And my old trusted banner of truth mug with some nice dark roast black coffee. Hmm. Good to go. Ezekiel 37. The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out in the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones. And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, Oh Lord God, you know Then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones, Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. And I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live. And you shall know that I am the Lord. So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a sound. And behold, a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to its bone. And I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them. But there was no breath in them. Then he said to me, Prophesy to the breath, prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God. Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live. So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet. an exceedingly great army. Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel Behold, they say, Our bones are dried up and our hope is lost, we are indeed cut off. Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people. And I will bring you into the land of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord when I open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my God. people, and I will put my spirit within you, and you shall live. And I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the Lord. I have spoken, and I will do it, declares the Lord. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of man, take a stick and write on it for Judah and the people of Israel associated with him. Then take another stick and write on it for Joseph, the stick of Ephraim. and all the house of Israel associated with him. And then join them one to another into one stick, that they may become one in your hand. And when your people say to you, Will you not tell us what you mean by these? Say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am about to take the stick of Joseph. is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel associated with him, and I will join it with the stick of Judah and make them one stick, that they may be one in my hand. When the sticks on which you write are in your hand before your eyes, then say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will take the people of Israel from the nations among which they have gone, and will gather them from all around. And bring them to their own land, and I will make them one nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel. And one king shall be king over them all, and they shall be no longer two nations, and no longer divided into two kingdoms. They shall not defile themselves any more with their idols and their detestable things or with any of their transgressions, but I will save them from all the backslidings in which they have sinned, and I will cleanse them and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. My servant David shall be king over them, and they shall all have one shepherd. They shall walk in my rules and be careful to obey my statutes. They shall dwell in the land that I gave to my servant Jacob where your fathers lived. They and their children, and their children's children, shall dwell there forever. And David, my servant, shall be their prince forever. I will make a covenant of peace with them. It shall be an everlasting covenant with them And I will set them in their land and multiply them, and will set their my sanctuary in their midst forevermore. My dwelling place shall be with them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Then the nations shall know that I am the Lord who sanctifies Israel when my sanctuary is in their midst forever. That is Ezekiel 37. And really, this is concluding a section from Ezekiel 34. to 37. And we pick up from Ezekiel 34 this idea that David's going to be the shepherd over his people. That's repeated here in verse 24. My servant David shall be king over them, and they shall all have one shepherd. And then from Ezekiel uh Um thirty-six that we looked at y uh two days ago, the idea of having a new heart, the heart of stone being removed and being given a heart of flesh. This is this is what God's going to do to to write uh his law on our hearts that we will walk in his ways and he's going to make us alive. So Israel is in a a terrible, terrible state. The northern kingdom is in the northern kingdoms of Israel have gone into exile and have been dispersed and kind of lost to history for the most part. Um some of them get resettled in the land or stay in the land and they mix with others and they become the Samaritans that we meet in the Gospels. And then the southern kingdom of Judah, which has the tribes of Judah, Benjamin, and some Levites, they end up getting taken off into exile. into Babylon and then Jerusalem is completely destroyed. And now it looks like, from a human perspective, it looks like all hope is lost. Everything is gone. Both kingdoms are conquered. Both capitals are destroyed. The temple is destroyed. The Davidic kingship is over. The covenant promises have come to an end and have failed. And that's the issue. God made covenant promises to Abraham that through his seed all the off all the nations of the earth will be blessed. And he made covenant promises to David that someone from his line would sit on the throne forever. And seemingly With the destruction of northern Israel and the Babylonian deportation of southern Judah, the promises of God, the kingdom of God, the purposes of God seem to have come to a frustrating and failed end. That's it. Except. God is a God of resurrection. God is a God of bringing life out of the dead And so he takes Ezekiel and he shows him this valley full of bones, dry bones. No hope whatsoever. And he asks him a bold question, Son of Man, can these bones live? The obvious human answer is no way. Not possible, right? But Ezekiel is smarter than that. He's wiser. He's been a prophet of the Lord for years. And so he says, O Lord God, you know. From a human perspective, it looks impossible. But you know, O Lord, because you are capable of all things. And so he says, prophesy over these bones. Here we have the Word of God being given. Will it be effective? Prophesy with the bones. Hear the word of the Lord. I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. And then you shall know that I am the Lord. So Ezekiel prophesies. But the spoken word of God is powerful, but insufficient. The spoken word of God is powerful, but insufficient. The bones come together. They are laid bone on bone. And then there is skin that comes upon them and flesh But there's no breath. There's no breath until he says, prophesy to the breath. And say to the breath, come from the four winds. Now one thing we need to see that we wouldn't get quite as clearly in English as it would be in Hebrew is that the word for Spirit, breath and wind is all the same Hebrew word, ruach. So the breath, the wind, the spirit, the ruach of God, the spirit of God. Is necessary to bring life. So, faithfully proclaiming the Word of God, faithfully speaking, declaring, preaching the Word of God is necessary But not sufficient. Without the work of the Holy Spirit, there may be order, there may be form But there's no life. So the Holy Spirit is the one who alone can bring life. How does someone pass from death to life? From condemnation to Eternal glory, justification, adoption as a child of God. How does that miracle happen? It happens through the preaching of the gospel, through the word of God, and the Spirit working. to bring life to the dead. And God says, I'm going to put my spirit within you, and you shall live. This is what he had promised. Back in chapter 36, just the previous chapter. He's going to give us the spirit. He's going to give us life. He's going to take out the heart of stone. He's going to give us the heart of flesh. And then the covenant promise. The big covenant promise that stretches from Genesis to Revelation. The one promise that God has made is I will be your God and you will be my people. It's repeated. At least eleven times in separate places throughout Scripture. I will be your God, you will be my people. But here the people of God are divided and scattered, and so God says, I'm going to bring them back together. And I'm going to be their God, and they're going to be my people. We see that specifically in verse 23 I will save them from all the backslidings in which they have sinned, and I will cleanse them, and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. Now this ultimately God does through Jesus Christ. The gathering in after Jesus Christ begins at Pentecost, where scattered people of God from all these different nations under the earth come together and they are saved and they are brought into one church under one King Jesus. Who is the shepherd of David, who is the fulfillment of the promise, of the promise, and then to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. This is the surprising thing. God's not going to stop with ethnic Israel by bringing together Jews and Gentiles. The first congreg the the first community to be converted in the ministry of Jesus is the Samaritan village of Sikar. So Jesus, who's from the line of Judah, brings the gospel to a Samaritan village in the northern tribe area of Israel. Jesus' ministry is done within the area of Galilee and Zebulun and Naphtali, these northern tribal areas of Israel. So the son of David The king of Israel, the promised shepherd, brought the light of God into the northern Israel parts and Sikhar and other places. Capernaum was his headquarters on the north side of the Sea of Galilee. But then ultimately he lays down his life and the ultimate sacrifice in Jerusalem where he rises again from the dead and then he pours out the Holy Spirit and then the gospel goes forward. So so God does fulfill this in Jesus Christ. He brings together his people. Jewish people, Samaritan people, that's the the remnant of the old northern kingdom of Israel, brings them together, but then he's not content there. He's going to go to all the world. And we are a part of that story. We are part of the fulfillment of Ezekiel 37. When we preach the gospel, when we send out missionaries, when we go out on missions, when we share the gospel with our neighbors, when we pray for someone's salvation, we are a part of what God is doing in Ezekiel 37 to bring out his purposes. To the ends of the earth, to glorify Christ, to advance his kingdom, to bring in the lost sheep who are scattered and who need the Lord. The Word of God and the Spirit of God, through the power of the accomplished work of the Son of God, brings God's people together as one flock, one shepherd. alive, a living army on our feet to advance the gospel to the nations. What good news, what wonderful good news that we are called to be a part of. Let's pray. Father, there is no one like you. You are the one true God. Lord Jesus, there's no Savior, there's no shepherd, there's no King, but you Who can redeem us from sin and death, who can bring us from death to life, who can take our hard heart of stone and replace it with a heart of flesh that beats with love for you and love for one another. O Lord Jesus, bring us under your kingship. O Holy Spirit, breathe life in us and use us. To take your word to others and work to bring life to others who need to know you. I pray all this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That is Ezekiel 37. Thanks for joining me for that. Tomorrow we're going to go on to a difficult chapter, chapter 38, and the prophecy against Gog. One of the most challenging chapters in all the Bible to interpret accurately. We're going to try tackling it together tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.