Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Day 971 today in our three-year journey through the Word of God, one chapter at a time, and we come to Ezekiel chapter 14. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are great, worthy of our praise. Your word is true, worthy of our attention. We pray, Father, that you would speak to us, that you would write your word on our hearts, that you would convict us, that you would strengthen us, that you would lead us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel 14. Then certain of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me. And the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, these men have taken their idols into their hearts, and set the stumbling block of their iniquity before their faces. Should I indeed let myself be consulted by them? Therefore speak to them, and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Any one of the house of Israel who takes his idols into his heart, and sets the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and yet comes to the prophet I will answer him as he comes, with the multitude of his idols, that I may lay hold of the hearts of the house of Israel, who are all estranged from me through their idols. Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, repent and turn away from your idols, and turn away your faces from all your abominations. For any one of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel who separates himself from me, taking his idols into his heart and putting the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and yet comes to a prophet to consult me through him I will, I the Lord, will answer him myself, and I will set my face against that man. I will make him a sign and a byword, and cut him off from the midst of my people. And you shall know that I am the Lord. And if the prophet is deceived and speaks a word I, the Lord, have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand against him, and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel. and they shall bear their punishment. The punishment of the prophet and the punishment of the inquirer shall be alike, that the house of Israel may no more go astray from me. nor defile themselves any more with all their transgressions, but that they may be my people and I may be their God, declares the Lord God. And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, when a land sins against me by acting faithlessly, and I stretch out my hand against it, and break its supply of bread, and send famine upon it, and cut off from it man and beast, even if these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it. They would not, they would deliver but their own lives by their righteousness, declares the Lord God. If I cause wild beasts to pass through the land, and they ravage it, and it be made desolate, so that no one may pass through because of the beasts Even if these three men were in it, as I live, declares the Lord, they would deliver neither sons nor daughters. They alone would be delivered, but the land would be desolate Or if I bring a sword upon that land and say, Let a sword pass through the land, and I cut off from it man and beast. Though these three men were in it, as I live, declares the Lord God, they would deliver, neither sons nor daughters, but they alone would be delivered. Or if I send a pestilence into that land and pour out my wrath upon it with blood, to cut off from it man and beast. Even if Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, declares the Lord They would deliver, neither son nor daughter, they would deliver, but their own lives by their righteousness. For thus says the Lord God, how much more when I send upon Jerusalem my four disastrous acts of judgment? Sword, famine, wild beasts, and pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast. But behold, some survivors will be left in it Sons and daughters who will be brought out, behold, when they come out to you, and you see their ways and their deeds, you will be consoled for the disaster that I have brought upon Jerusalem. for all that I have brought upon it. They will console you when you see their ways and their deeds, and you shall know that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it. declares the Lord God. That is Ezekiel fourteen, the Word of God We've got two major sections here. Of course, we've got these elders who come to consult with Ezekiel because they want to hear from the Lord, but they are idolatrous elders. And then we have a word given against Jerusalem for its sin, invoking three great men of God, one of whom is actually alive and a contemporary with Ezekiel. So first these idolatrous elders, certain of the elders of Israel came to be and sat before me. And They're coming to the prophet. They're inquiring of the Lord. Ezekiel is a true prophet. He has been seeking the true Word of God, and so they are coming to the source of the true Word of God. But they're coming Coming with idols in their heart and as God says, the stumbling block of their iniquity before their faces. In other words, they they cherish false gods in their heart, and that colours, everything, all the way they see everything. If we take an idol into our heart, whatever that might be, sexual immorality, pride, covetousness political ideology that's you know obsessive and driving our lives. Even family and um Friends, relationships have become too important to us, too centrally important to us, financial success, prosperity, national pride, patriotism, whatever. If we've taken something into our hearts that has become a God to us It has become a driving force, an organizing principle, a prioritizing value. It has become the most important thing to us in our hearts. We will see everything through the lens of that idol. It will be before our faces. We'll be looking at the whole world through it like putting on colored glasses of, okay, I'm going to care about, you know sexual immorality, put them on and you're seeing everything through a lens of sexual immorality. And we care about national pride. You can see everything through an America first national pride, you know, kind of a lens or um Um whatever it is, right? My career, you're gonna see everything through money and career advancement or or family. Actually, one of the great idols that's very popular within evangelical circles because it's so respectable is the idol of family that I would never do anything to make any member of my family I just love my family so much that they don't do anything wrong, and you know, and that becomes the lens through which everything's either for my family or against my family. Anything that we take to our hearts that's not God that becomes the driving force, organizing principle, prioritizing values of our lives becomes that which we see through before our faces. And God says an interesting thing. If we inquire to him, if we inquire of him, in that state, He will answer him as he comes with the multitude of his idols. He's going to answer us as we come with the multitude of our idols. In other words, his answer will not be Really, the truth that we need to hear, sometimes it will reinforce the idolatry and it will harden our hearts to judgment because we are coming to God unrepentant We are coming to God not as the one true and living God and the one whose word alone will shape our worldview and our value system. But we're coming to God with other gods, with other filters, with other burdens that are determining our lives. And so God answers us in a way that is Judgment. I will set my face against that man. I will make him a sign and a byword to cut him off in the midst of my people. And so that's a very serious thing. It says that we need to examine our hearts, like we do when we come to the Lord's table and the charge in 1 Corinthians 11. First Corinthians ten says, You cannot eat of the table of the Lord and eat of the table of demons. You cannot your your heart can't be a temple of the living God and a temple of idolatry. That's contradictory. You can't serve both God and mammon as Jesus. It just cannot be done. And so if we come without examining ourselves, what we may hear may be a word that is against us. And that's very sober and that calls us to repent. and to seek the Lord and to seek to be repentant particularly of any idolatry we might have in our hearts. And then there's a word that comes regarding how bad things are. Three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job. But what's interesting is, in Ezekiel say, right, Noah was a A figure from long ago in history. The flood was thousands of years past. Job was a figure from long ago in history. Hundreds of years past. Daniel is a living contemporary of Ezekiel. He's serving in the court of Nebuchadnezzar at the time that this is written, and yet he is so honorable in the sight of God, so faithful. in the sight of God that he's listed here right alongside Noah and Job. That's pretty stunning, just as a side note. But the point is that even these three very godly men, very sincere and great intercessors, all three of them uh were you know, Job prayed on behalf of his friends that they would not and God set him up as an intercessor in that way. Noah prayed um and sought the Lord and was used by the Lord to spare his family, eight persons and And the animals as a picture of Christ and the refuge we find in Christ. And Daniel intercedes on behalf of Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar eventually comes So, but but God says that the judgment against Jerusalem. He says, if I were to stretch out my hand with famine, or if I were to stretch out my hand with wild beasts, or if I were to stretch out my hand with a sword, that is warfare, or if I will stretch out my hand with pestilence, that is disease, against the land, because I've decided that they've sinned so much. that not even Noah, Daniel, and Job could intercede and save anybody but their own lives. And so he says, How much more when I send upon Jerusalem my four disastrous actions acts of judgment toward famine wild beasts. We've seen Zechariah and Revelation that judgment often comes in these fourfold ways. Right. And so it's it's kind of a comprehensiveness that God brings judgment through warfare, through hunger, through wild beasts who move into uninhabited places and start to attack with more boldness and pestilence disease that's often bred by the dead bodies that are laying around after warfare. Uh so it's it's pretty pretty awful picture. That God says he is not going to relent of the disaster he has pronounced for Jerusalem. And why? It's for hundreds of years of unrepentant idolatry. So the big message from Ezekiel 14, as we've seen so much throughout the prophets, is we must identify Confess and repent of the idolatry that has gotten a hold of our hearts and our lives. Whatever it may be, there's always something Needling its way in, wiggling its way in, trying to take center stage over God and His Word. And whatever that something is, we must confess it. We must ask God to remove it. We must turn our backs on it. We must repent of it by the grace of God so that we can walk in faith It's not saving ourselves by works. It's just saying if we say we really believe God, we need to really believe God. If we say we belong to God by grace through faith in Christ, we need to really belong to God by grace through faith in Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, show us where idols are creeping into our lives. Give us the grace to have the wisdom to identify them and the strength. To confess and repent. Take them out of our hearts. Whatever these idols are, whether it's our pride. Even ministry itself can become an idol, ministry success, ministry status and standing, or our families, or our fortunes, or our nation. For our political group, forgive us. Cleanse us. Turn our hearts back to you. Revive us again, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Ezekiel 14. We're going to be going back to Revelation tomorrow. Revelation 17. Have a blessed day in the Lord.