Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Hope you're doing well on this 1013th day that we are together in the Word of God. And we're in Ezekiel 42 in the midst of this extended description of this eschatological temple. What's eschatological? Well, of of the end, of the last, of the final, right? The final temple, the glorious temple as we've seen over the last couple of days, it really is a vision of the church. We live in the last days, and in these last days, what Christ is doing is building his church, which is the temple of the living God. It is the temple, the temple. There's only one temple. It's the church. And one day, Revelation 21 tells us, the temple will be revealed as the New Jerusalem, the holy city, the temple city. As a bride for her bridegroom, revealed from heaven, the glorious, glorified city of God And we're getting a vision of this here in Ezekiel. So let's pray and ask for the Lord's help as we dig into another chapter of details in this vision of the temple. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Every part of your word. Challenging parts, encouraging parts. Parts that call us to repent, parts that call us to change our worldview and see things differently than we normally would. Teach us, grow us, stretch us, move us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen Isaiah forty two, Ezekiel forty two, Ezekiel forty two. Then he led me out into the outer court toward the north. And he brought me to the chambers that were opposite the separate yard and opposite the building on the north. The length of the building whose door faced north was a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty cubits. Facing the twenty cubits that belonged in the inner court and facing the pavement that belonged to the outer court was gallery against gallery in three stories. And before the chambers was a passage inward, ten cubits wide and a hundred cubits long, and their doors were on the north. Now the upper chambers were narrower, for the galleries took away, took more away from them than from the lower and middle chambers of the building For they were in three stories, and they had no pillars like the pillars of the courts. Thus the upper chambers were set back from the ground more than the lower and middle ones And there was a wall outside, parallel to the chambers, toward the outer court, opposite the chambers, fifty cubits long. for the chambers on the outer court were fifty cubits long, while those opposite the nave were a hundred cubits long. Below these chambers was an entrance on the east side, as one enters from the outer court. In the thickness of the wall of the court, on the south also, opposite the yard and opposite the building, there were chambers with a passage in front of them. They were similar to the chambers on the north, of the same length and breadth, with the same exits and arrangements and doors. As were the entrances of the chambers on the south, there was an entrance at the beginning of the passage, the passage before the corresponding wall on the east as one enters them Then he said to me, The north chambers and the south chambers, opposite the yard, are the holy chambers, where the priests who approach the Lord shall eat the most holy offerings. There they shall put the most holy offerings, the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, for the place is holy. When the priests enter the holy place, they shall not go out of it into the outer court without laying there the garments in which they minister. for these are holy. They shall put on other garments before they go near to that which is for the people. Now, when they had finished measuring the interior of the temple area, He led me out by the gate that faced east, and measured the temple area all around. He measured the east side with the measuring reed, five hundred cubits by the measuring reed all around He measured the north side, 500 cubits by the measuring reed, all around. He measured the south side, 500 cubits by the measuring reed. Then he turned to the west side and measured 500 cubits by the measuring reed. He measured it on the four sides It had a wall around it, 500 cubits long and 500 cubits broad, to make a separation between the holy and the common. So that is Ezekiel 42, and we're getting this continuing of a detailed description of this temple And I think there's a danger with something like this of overreading into the significance of things. So I want to be careful, and I'm going to say some things that I know are true and biblical things. And I want to say, I'm not necessarily saying that this is exactly what this passage means, because much of this remains a mystery to me. One of the things to see, though, is that all of these measurements are very even. They're all multiples of five, and they're all very even. Fifty, a hundred, you know, five hundred cubits by five hundred cubits by five hundred cubits. That's about About eight hundred and fifty feet or so um on on on the outer side on the outside of the the temple Um and it's a cube, which is interesting. That's not the way that Solomon's temple was, it wasn't the cube on the outside. But the the new Jerusalem The holy city that's revealed in Revelation 21 is a perfect cube with the same dimension on every side, except instead of 500 cubits, it's 10,000 stadia. So instead of 850 feet, it's like 50 And I do think part of what's happening there is that God is saying, this this holy temple that you were expecting, it's bigger than you could have ever imagined. And that's why, like, there's several times in the Old Testament where we have a census taken of God's people, and there's always a countable number of God's people, even when that number is very large. So there's a census taken when God's people are first brought out of Egypt. There's another census taken before they go into the promised land. Those are God-ordained census. There's David's sinful census, which is of the army that was taken uh late in his reign, and There are other counts we get of the people who were taken off into exile, of the people who returned from exile. And all of these counts are a finite countable number. And it's always Israel, which is a fairly small part of the world, with the Great Commission, with the gospel going out to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. the the expansion of the holy people of God is is beyond our comprehension. We really cannot comprehend A temple city in a cube fifteen hundred miles on a side Uh it's it's it's not it's not can really conceivable. And how many people would that hold uh who would who would be in the temple worshiping God You know, a countless multitude, which is why in Revelation, when we're shown the people of God, we're we're told repeatedly, it's it's a vast multitude that no one can number from every tribe, tongue, people. So we have some dimensions here, and they're fixed dimensions, but they're very they're very symbolic dimensions in that everything's these even multiples of five, fifty. 20, 100, 500. And God, as he expanded, you know, Revelation is is progressive, not the book of Revelation. God's revelation of Himself in the Bible is is progressive. So he's he's continually revealing more and more. He'll re reveal something in a seed form and then he'll unpack it more and more and more. And of course it all points to Christ. But then it's heading toward glory. And as we come to Christ and as we head toward glory, the the understanding of what God's doing becomes vastly expanded. There are three stories to this temple and the upper ones are built upon the lower ones and there are store rooms. This is this is an indication, I think, that You know, there there are practical things that need to be tended to within the kingdom of God, within the church. There's a place where things need to be kept. and provision that needs to be made for the priests and for the people. There there's meals that are shared. I I wonder if that's a little bit of a hint of the anticipation of of the Lord's Supper. I think the Roman Catholic Church went in a very odd and unbiblical direction with this idea. in the Middle Ages when they conceived of the Mass as a holy sacrifice and the priest as offering up the holy sacrifice to the people And that may have been in some misguided understanding of saying, oh, that the church is the temple, so we need to reenact temple worship, having a priest and a sacrifice. That is that's sort of getting it but missing it at the same time. That's not really what it's about. But I do think the Lord Suffers our opportunity to remember the once for all sacrifice that Christ made and for us to share in that sacrifice. Together by faith as the people of God who are also the priests of God under our high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we all share in these things, and these things need to be provided for. I also think that, you know, Ephesians 2 tells us the foundation level of the temple is built on the apostles and prophets. And if you think that Christ is building his temple over time, each successive generation of believers rests upon the work that God has done in previous generations. And the strength is in aligning and resting together on the one foundation that's in the apostles So as we see these different stories and these different chambers and these different stones that are laid one on top of another, it's a reminder to us that we didn't invent Christianity. Sometimes I think some churches act like We need to reinvent Christianity for a new generation. We need to reimagine the faith and how to make it relevant to this generation. Well, we need to be faithful to what we've inherited. It's As the Apostle Paul told Timothy, guard that which is entrusted to you. And he said in 2 Timothy 2. 2, you take that which I've taught to you and you teach it to faithful men who can then teach others. You guard the trust. You keep the faith. You stay steadfast and faithful. And that's you can't imagine like if every time you want to lay lay another uh level of stones in the temple, you said, Well well how should we do this one? Let's not pay attention to how the ones were done before. Let's just think of a new creative way to lay these stones. I it it would be a disaster. It would just be a completely unstable mess. And I think that there's some of that within our uh in America we're kind of addicted to being trendy. Unfortunately, we're spreading that throughout the world through social media and other influences. is we need to be faithful. We need to be aligned with what's come before. We need to make sure that we're aligned to the foundation stones. And then one final thing is just that Not every chamber is the same. Not every area within the temple is the same. And I made reference to this yesterday. But it it's really important to emphasize that while we are all priests, we are all children of God, we are all living stones being built up into a holy temple, that doesn't mean we're all the same. Some people are really gifted at giving, and they're able to supply much of the needs of the church. because of their generosity. Some people are really gifted at serving and working hard and doing the labor. Some people are really gifted at praying. They are really in uh intense And gifted prayer warriors. Some people are gifted at preaching and teaching. Some people are gifted at administration, at helps. There's there's all sorts of names of spiritual gifts that are given to us in uh in scripture, we all have a role to play is what God is really saying, and if we are all stewards of God's varied grace, his grace in its various forms as first Peter four says so we don't all need to be the same, but we do all need to be aligned to the same gospel and serving the same same purpose. So I think that's the call today is let's make sure we're faithful to be aligned to the once for all gospel handed to the saints and passed down through through the generations. But also let's respect that as we have different gifts and abilities, we perform different functions, we have different places where we rest within God's temple and different services that we perform in the overall structure. of the church that Christ is building. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your matchless love for us. Thank you for being faithful. Thank you for building your church. Build us up that we might honor Christ in all of our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Okay, that is Ezekiel 42. Tomorrow we're going to go back to 2 Corinthians, pick up with 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Hope you can join me for that. And I do hope, as always, that you have a blessed day in the Lord.