Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. I'm from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I hope that you're having a blessed day today. I hope that you're ready to dig into God's Word. We're here in Ezekiel 28 in our 992nd day together in the Word of God. We're on a three-year journey through every chapter of Scripture. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word, eternal, fixed in the heavens, unchanging, and yet transformative, powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. Speak to us today through Ezekiel 28, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel 28. We heard about Tyre yesterday in 27. This is the prince of Tyre, the ruler of Tyre. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, say to the Prince of Tyre, Thus says the Lord God, because your heart is proud. And you have said, I am a God. I sit in the seat of the gods, in the heart of the seas. Yet you are but a man, and no god, though you make your heart like the heart of a god. You are indeed wiser than Daniel. No secret is hidden from you. By your wisdom and your understanding, you have made wealth for yourself and have gathered gold and silver into your your treasuries, by your great wisdom in your trade, you have increased your wealth, and your heart has become proud in your wealth. Therefore, thus says the Lord God. Because you make your heart like the heart of a God, therefore, behold, I will bring foreigners upon you, the most ruthless of the nations. and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom and defile your splendor. They shall thrust you down into a pit. And you shall die the death of the slain in the heart of the seas. Will you still say, I am a God, in the presence of those who kill you? Though you are but a man and no God in the hands of those who slay you, you shall die the death of the uncircumcised by the hands of foreigners, for I have spoken, declares the Lord God Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, raise a lamentation over the kingdom, over the king of Tyre, and say to him, Thus says the Lord God. You were the signet of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. You were in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was your covering, Sardius. and topaz and diamond, beryl, onyx and jasper, sapphire, emerald and carbuncle, and crafted in gold were your settings and your engravings on the day that you were created. They were prepared. You were an anointed guardian cherub. I placed you. You were on the holy mountain of God. In the midst of the stones of fire you walked. You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created till unrighteousness was found in you. In the abundance of your trade, you were filled with violence in your midst, and you sinned. So I cast you as a profane thing from the mountain of God, and I destroyed you, O guardian cherub From the midst of the stones of fire, your heart was proud because of your beauty. You corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor. I cast you to the ground. I exposed you. before kings to feast their eyes on you. By the multitude of your iniquities, in the unrighteousness of your trade, you profaned your sanctuaries, so I brought fire out from your midst It consumed you, and I turned you to ashes on the earth, in the sight of all who saw you. All who know you among the peoples are appalled at you. You have come to a dreadful end, and shall be no more forever. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of man, set your face toward Sidon. And prophesy against her, and say, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am against you, O Sidon, and I will manifest my glory in your midst. And they shall know that I am the Lord when I execute judgments in her and manifest my holiness in her, for I will send pestilence into her. and blood into her streets, and the slain shall fall in her midst by the sword that is against her on every side, then they will know that I am the Lord And for the house of Israel, there shall be no more a briar to prick, or a thorn to hurt them among all their neighbors who have treated them with contempt Then they will know that I am the Lord God. Thus says the Lord God, When I gather the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered, and manifest my holiness in them in the sight of the nations. Then they shall dwell in their own land that I gave to my servant Jacob, and they shall dwell securely in it, and they shall build houses and plant vineyards. They shall dwell securely when I execute judgments upon all their neighbors who have treated them with contempt. Then they will know that I am the Lord their God. And that's the conclusion to the section because that is the purpose. The purpose that God has in mind is never primarily negative against sin. It's always primarily positive for the good of his people. We have some confusion in Tyre, inside it, and in Israel. People were confused over who was really in charge, who was really glorious, who was really God. And the Lord wanted his people to know, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that the Lord, their God, was the one true God. The Prince of Tyre, the king of Tyre, styled himself as a god. Pride. Chapter 27 focuses on wealth, sophistication, connectedness, trade networks, influence. Chapter 28 focuses on pride. Because you see, you can have all those things and theoretically be humble and thankful and look to be useful to those around you. Or you can get puffed up with pride and say, Look how great I am. And that's exactly what the king of Tyre did. He got so puffed up with pride and said, Look how great I am, that he said, I am a god. I am a God. I have so much influence. I sit the sea. All the peoples of the ancient Near East, they all looked at the sea as this place of mystery. tremendous power, death, the unexpected and uncontrollable. Entire, it's like, I have conquered the seas. Right. I sit in the seat of the gods in the heart of the seas. So I'm a god. No, I don't think so. That's what the Lord says. You're going to die. The Babylonians are going to come against you and they're going to slay you. Are you going to say I am a god to people who are about to chop you up with a sword? That doesn't work, right? That doesn't happen to gods. I love this. There's so much irony that This is one of our pieces of evidence the of the historicity of Daniel's that this other book that is definitely written to within a very particular historical context addressing particular kingdoms at a very specific time. Daniel's already well known. He's already well established as counselor to the king. Interpreter of dreams, knower of mysteries. Again, so Daniel, he would have already interpreted the to Nebuchadnezzar the statue dream, and he would have already been in the court of Nebuchadnezzar with this great reputation. by the time this prophecy is given. It helps us confirm Daniel's historicity. It also helps us place the historical context of when this was said. And again, this is before Tyre is going to be uh subdued. It won't be completely destroyed by the Babylonians, but it will be subdued by the Babylonians. This king of Tyre will have to bow the knee to Nebuchadnezzar and in fact will be put to death. And so Um, it's not good. It's not good. The lament over tire, which is the second major section here, um The pride of the king of Tyre is so great that he becomes like an earthly manifestation of Satan and his pride Um Satan was one of the highest of the angelic beings. And He fell. And so this is like the pride of those high and exalted angelic beings who have privilege and position. Again, God gave Tyre. It's privileged position in the world. The Lord is sovereign over all the affairs of nations. The Lord raises up, the Lord casts down, the Lord gives, the Lord takes away. The Lord is the sovereign one. He gave Tyre its privileged position among the nations, but Tyre was not humble and thankful and worshipful. Tyre became proud. And so it fell. It fell in a way that has echoes of the way that Satan fell because your heart was proud because of your beauty. Verse 17: You corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor. The first time we're introduced to Satan in the Bible, we're told that the serpent was more crafty than any other creature that God had made. Craftiness is wisdom corrupted for self-seeking rather than God glorifying. You see, Daniel was given wisdom, but he glorified God with it tire given wisdom and how to know how to make trade, how to make ships, how to sail on the seas. They're g that's great wisdom, that's great understanding, but they use it for selfishness and it becomes this corrupted, twisted thing. And so he's going to be exposed. He's going to be exposed. Sidon is another city of the Mediterranean coast. It's right alongside Tyre. Uh Tyre and Sidon are the two principal cities of the Phoenician civilization. They're sort of city-states, kind of like the Philistines had city-states and then they had an alliance of those city-states, so Gath and Ekron and Ashkelon and Gaza. the the um Phoenicians had a similar setup. They had city-states and then they had an alliance of Phoenician alliance And so Sidon in the same way. Sidon wasn't quite as rich and powerful as Tyre, but it was also going to come down. You know who's not going to come down? Ultimately is Israel. Even though Israel's already been humbled. It's not going to fall ultimately. It will be redeemed. When I gather the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered. And I manifest my holiness in them in the sight of the nations, and they shall dwell in their own land that I gave to my servant Jacob, and they shall dwell sea. securely in it. God gathers back in his people, reestablishes them in the land, and Tyre and Sidon are gone. For good. That's the sovereignty of God. It is for the good of his people, and it is so that we can know, not get confused, because some people in Israel were confused. Oh, maybe Tyre is the one we should be giving highest allegiance to. Whatever you give your highest allegiance to, whatever has your deepest loyalty, that's your God. And the Lord wanted his people to know that Tyre was not God. The Lord alone is God. So, people of God, here's our application. Don't pursue the wealth of the world. Don't worship the wealth of the world. Don't stand in awestruck wonder at the wealth of the world. The movers, the shakers, the influencers, the connected, don't be overly impressed by them. They are temporary. We are citizens of the heavenly kingdom, of the kingdom of the King of Kings. Worship him. Stand in awe of him Let your deepest loyalty and your highest praise be for him. May he be in your hearts, may he be on your mind, may he be on your lips. Because his kingdom will stand. And he will gather us into the new heavens of the new earth where we will sit And reign and work and live to the glory of God forever and ever, as we saw a few days ago in Revelation 21 and 22. That's where our hearts need to be, not on anything of this world which is passing away. If God's given you a position of wealth and influence, be thankful. It was given to you by God. Use it in humility for the glory of God and the good of others. But don't get overly impressed by the so-called important people in the world. Because God is the one who reigns forever. Let's pray. Father, there is no one like you. We've seen that in your word again and again. You alone deserve the glory. King Jesus, you reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. You are wisdom. You are power. You are love. May our hearts be yours. Always supremely yours. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Ezekiel 28. Tomorrow we're going to pick up a couple of Psalms. So I hope you can join me for that. And I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.