Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Denmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church On our 956th day together in the Word of God, we come to Ezekiel chapter 4. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word For all that you've been teaching us. Over the days that we've been gathering together to study your word, we pray that your Holy Spirit would be our teacher as we look together at Ezekiel 4 today Help us to understand your word. Help us to receive it by faith. Help us to treasure it in our hearts. Help us to see Christ more clearly and to live more faithfully. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Ezekiel chapter four. And you, son of man, take a brick and lay it before you, and engrave on it a city, even Jerusalem. and put siege works against it, and build a siege wall against it, and cast up a mound around it, set camps also against it and plant battering rams against it all around. And you take an iron griddle and place it as an iron wall between you and the city and set your face toward it, and let it be in a state of siege, and press the siege against it. This is a sign for the house of Israel. Then Lie on your left side, and place the punishment of the house of Israel upon it, for the number of days that you lie on it You shall bear their punishment, for I assigned to you a number of days, three hundred and ninety days equal to the number of the years of their punishment. so long shall you bear the punishment of the house of Israel. And when you have completed these, you shall lie down a second time on your right side, and bear the punishment of the house of Judah Forty days I assign to you, a day for each year, and you shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem with your arm bared, and you shall prophesy against the city, and behold I will place cords upon you so that you cannot turn from one side to the other till you have completed the days of your siege. And you take wheat and barley, beans and lentils, millet and emmer, and put them into a single vessel, and make your bread from them During the number of days that you lie on your side, 390 days, you shall eat it, and your food that you shall eat shall be by weight twenty shekels a day From day to day you shall eat it, and water you shall drink by measure, the sixth part of a hen, from day to day you shall drink, and you shall eat it as a barley cake baking it in their sight on human dung. And the Lord said, Thus shall the people of Israel eat their bread unclean among the nations where I drive them Then I said, Ah, Lord God, behold, I have never defiled myself. From my youth up until now I've never eaten what died of itself, or what was torn by beasts, nor has tainted meat come into my mouth. Then he said to me, see, I assign to you cow's dung instead of human dung, on which you may prepare your bread Moreover, he said to me, Son of man, behold, I will break the supply of bread in Jerusalem. They shall eat bread by weight and with anxiety, and they shall drink water by measure and I will do this that they may lack bread and water, and look at one another in dismay, and not away because of their punishment That is Ezekiel chapter 4. So this is the beginning of Ezekiel's ministry proper. And it's a difficult beginning. It was hard enough for him to be given this message that he needed to speak whatever God put into his mouth The word of God need to be sweet to him and need to speak it whether people would listen or not. That's difficult. It's difficult to speak a word that people don't want to listen to. But now he's being called by the Lord to enact this judgment. against Jerusalem and against Israel. And so he he does this little sort of street theater, this enacting. He he creates a miniature, takes a brick. And it it represents Jerusalem. He engraves Jerusalem on it. And then whenever I read this passage now, I think of Peter Jackson making Lord of the Rings and how he made all the cities in that story in miniature and all the sieges that were were filmed were a mixture of CGI and and miniature Just kind of a silly reference, but that's just kind of kind of what pops into mind. But that's what he's doing. He's creating this this stage play uh for the people who are in exile to see the city of Jerusalem surrounded. Camps and a giant battering rams, and then an iron griddle between you and the city, like setting your face as iron against the city. So Ezekiel in this case is representing the Lord in his symbolic actions. And so um This is this is not easy. But the hard thing is he's got to lay on his side and he's got to eat this this bread. And so He's got to lay on one side for 390 days, and that's equal to the number of the years of the punishment of Jerusalem. And we're not exactly sure where this 390 days comes from, but it's basically there's going to be 390 years of this kind of punishment against Israel. And then 40 days is going to be 40 years of punishment against Jerusalem. And there's about from 586 When Jerusalem finally falls and it's completely destroyed and the temple is completely destroyed to the time when the Edict of Cyrus allows them to begin to return is about forty years. Um about Now earlier Jeremiah the prophet said to be 70 years of exile, so if you count from when the first group went off into exile, it is 70 years because there were a number of exiles over a number of periods of time. Or if you count from the time the temple was torn down to the time the temple was rebuilt, that's also seventy years. But the time that the city laid in complete desolation With no one inhabiting it from the time the Babylonians finished demolishing it to the time that Cyrus, it's about forty years And so this is the punishment. Now, he has to eat this special bread during this punishment. I think it's interesting. Bread in the store that's called Ezekiel 4. 9 Bread, and it's made according to this recipe here, and it's supposed to be super nutritious and really good for you I don't have a strenuous objection to that bread. In fact, I've had it before. It's pretty good bread. But what bothers me a little bit is the idea that like we're going to use this as like a marketing thing to like promote health because somehow this is a very healthy way to make bread. I don't think the Lord was telling Ezekiel this is the healthiest way to make bread. He's just telling him that this is the way that you're going to have to eat bread. In other words, you can't you can't cultivate it the way that you you were used to. The way they were used to making barley bread is by grinding it into flour and letting it rise and then eating it as more like we would understand bread. This is a heavier, denser bread because it's It's made of grains and beans and lentils. It's got more protein in it, yes, but it's also not as fluffy. It's not as soft. It's a little bit of hardship bread. And so he has to bake it, and initially he's told to bake it over human dung because the people of God are put into a situation where they're being forced to eat unclean food. When you're sent into exile, your choices sometimes are starve or eat whatever's put in front of you, and you don't really know exactly where it came from or what was involved in the making of it and whether or not it follows all the dietary laws. And so God's trying to make a point of that But Ezekiel is trying to be very obedient to God's law, and he's never eaten anything unclean. He is an exile And so God relents and allows him to use cow dung. But imagine just imagine this. You're laying on your side for well over a year. Three hundred and ninety days. And eating the same bread every single day, twenty shekels of weight per day, every single day? I mean, it's just That would get old, you know, really quickly. Um it's about it's about eight ounces of bread a day. It's not really a lot Um it's not necessarily the case that he didn't drink anything else or he didn't have any other sustenance whatsoever. And certainly if this bread was the main part of his diet, it makes sense that it's got beans and lentils. um because that would give him some protein, but wow, it's just a powerful and Unusual thing to be called to do. And why? Because God is trying to get the attention of his people. And one of the ways that you can get the attention of people is to try to capture their imagination. Because in our imagination, we tend to live based upon what we can envision, what we can see. God came down to earth in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ to put on skin and bone, to put on flesh. and dwell among us so that we could know him, so that we could relate to him, so that we could identify with him, and he identify with us. So this is kind of an enactment that shows this heart of God to say, I'm going to go to whatever lengths it takes to get my people to see, to get my people to think, to get my people to pay attention. And so Ezekiel's called to this ministry. And he's faithful. He carries it out. It's not the last hard thing that God's going to call Ezekiel to do. And of course, what Ezekiel's called to do for, you know, a year and a couple of months. is nothing compared to what the Lord Jesus is going to be called to do for 33 years of his life. But it is God's desire that his people would receive his word. would receive the communication. And so he's going to extreme lengths because he loves his people. And he wants his people to be forewarned and to be challenged and to be called to repent so that we might repent and respond in faith. obedience. So what are we going to do? We need to hear and heed the word of God. We need to understand the heart of God here in saying, I'm willing to Ask my prophet to do these extreme things because I want to get the attention of my people. Doesn't mean we should go out and do extreme things. Ezekiel had a very specific call from God, but we should be clear. We should live a life that demonstrates the truth of what it is that we believe. We should be a living demonstration. Our lives should be a street play in the way that we live, assault and light that people can see us, as Jesus said, let your light so shine before people that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. If Ezekiel can lay on his side for a year and then turn to his other side and lay on his side for longer, if he can eat this limited diet of this weird bread, if he can cook over a fire of cow dung What we're called to do is so much easier than that, isn't it? Uh certainly we can walk with God by faith. Certainly we can love Jesus and love our neighbors. Certainly we can show the gospel in our words and in our actions. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the challenge that you gave Ezekiel that shows your heart. that you want your people to get it, you want your people to connect, you want your people to understand. And Ezekiel was willing to go to these lengths to communicate your message, to warn your people. That they might repent. We know that their hearts were hard. We know that ultimately it's going to take your son coming into the world and your spirit to soften and change hearts Would you soften our hearts and make us responsive to your word and make us obedient to your call? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Ezekiel 4. Tomorrow we're going to go back to the book of Proverbs and pick up Proverbs 27. Have a blessed day in the Lord.