Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 1015. 1015 and we're here in Ezekiel 43, continuing to look at this vision of the temple. Let's pray. Father in heaven, be our teacher and our guide as we look to your word today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel 43. Then he led me to the gate, the gate facing east. And behold, the glory of the God of Israel. was coming from the east, and the sound of his coming was like the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory. And the vision I saw was just like the vision that I had seen when he came to destroy the city. And just like the vision that I had seen by the Kivar Canal. And I fell on my face, and the glory of the Lord entered the temple by the gate facing east. And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court. And behold, The glory of the Lord filled the temple. While the man was standing there beside me, I heard one speaking to me out of the temple. And he said to me, Son of man, this is the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet. where I will dwell in the midst of my people of Israel forever, and the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name. neither they nor their kings, by their whoring, and by the dead bodies of their kings at their high places, by setting their threshold by my threshold and their doorpost beside my doorposts, with only a wall between me and them. They have defiled my holy name by their abominations that they have committed, so I have consumed them in my anger. Now Let them put away their whoring and the dead bodies of their kings far from me, and I will dwell in their midst forever. As for you, Son of Man, describe to the house of Israel the temple, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities, and they shall measure the plan And if they are ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the design of the temple, its arrangement, its exits and its entrances, that is, its whole design and make known to them as well all its statues and its whole design and all its laws, and write it down in their sight. so that they may observe all its laws and all its statutes and carry them out. This is the law of the temple, the whole territory on the top of the mountain, all around, shall be most holy. Behold this is the law of the temple. These are the measurements of the altar by cubits, the cubit being a cubit and a hand breadth. Its base shall be one cubit high and one cubit broad, with a rim of one span around its edge. and this shall be the height of the altar, from the base on the ground to the lower ledge two cubits, with a breadth of one cubit, and from the smaller ledge to the larger ledge four cubits, with a breadth of one cubit. And the altar hearth four cubits, and from the altar hearth projecting upward four horns, the altar hearth shall be square, twelve cubits long by twelve cubits broad. The ledge shall also be square, fourteen cubits long by fourteen broad, with a rim around it, half a cubit broad, and its base one cubit all around The steps of the altar face east. And he said to me, Son of man, thus says the Lord God, these are the ordinances for the altar. On the day when it is erected for offering burnt offerings upon it and throwing blood against it, you shall give to the Levitical priests of the family of Zadok, who draw near to me to minister to me. declares the Lord, a bull from the herd for a sin offering, and you shall take some of its blood, and put it on the four horns of the altar, and on the four corners of the ledge, and upon the rim all around. Thus you shall purify the altar and make atonement for it. You shall also take the blood, sorry, the bull of the sin offering, and it shall be burned in the appointed place belonging to the temple outside the sacred area And on the second day you shall offer a male goat without blemish for a sin offering, and the altar shall be purified as it was purified with the bull. When you have finished purifying it, you shall offer a bull from the herd without blemish, and a ram from the flock without blemish. You shall present them before the Lord, and the priests shall sprinkle salt on them And offer them up as a burnt offering to the Lord. For seven days you shall provide daily a male goat for a sin offering. Also a bull from the herd and a ram from the flock, without blemish, shall be provided. Seven days shall they make atonement for the altar and cleanse it and so consecrate it, and when they have completed these days. Then from the eighth day onward the priests shall offer on the altar your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, and I will accept you, declares the Lord God. Alright, Ezekiel 43. We're continuing our description of this temple. There's a couple of things I want to focus on here, and that is the glory of the Lord. And the law of the temple, meaning the law of holiness. So the glory of God. The glory of God comes to the temple. Fill the temple. Ezekiel had seen the glory of the Lord depart from the temple in chapters 10 and 11. And now the glory of the Lord returns to the temple, but it's not the same temple. This is a much larger and much more glorious temple. The same God, who is the God of the Old Testament, who led the Israelites with a glory cloud in the wilderness. Who dwelt in the temple made by Solomon is the same God whose glory dwells in his church today Jesus, the same yesterday, today, and forever. Jesus is the one who was the rock that the people drank from in the wilderness. He's the one who led his people through the wilderness as their shepherd. He is the Lord of his church today. He is with us. He is among us. The church is the manifestation of the kingdom of God on earth. This is the place where God's throne dwells. And where he places the soles of his feet, and where he dwells in the midst of his people forever. So our churches should be very God-centered and very worshipful. Because when you come into the presence of God, you focus on God and you worship. Church is not a show that's being put on for an audience. It's not a performance from people on a stage for the entertainment or even the excitement or experience of the audience that comes and assembles to watch the show. It is God's people gathered together. to glorify God with one voice. The people who are up front leading are leading in worship. They are the lead worshipers and they are leading the people to worship and the focus should be on God. Not on any man. It's not a show. It's not a concert followed by an inspirational talk. It is the holiness of God and it is the worship of God. And this leads us into the law. And that is, we are called to be God's holy people. The reason why God's glory left the temple in Jerusalem in Ezekiel 10 and 11 is because they they had defiled it by their unholiness. There are churches that commit apostasy, that fall away from the Lord. They embrace immorality openly. They deny God's word openly. They also still use sort of vaguely Christian language and talk about Jesus, but it's clear they've redefined all the terms and nothing means what it used to mean. And those churches, the glory of God has departed. And if we want churches that are faithful to God, if we want to be part of the one true church that Christ is building, We need to be holy, even as he is holy. We need to live as the holy people of God So the law of the temple, the whole territory on the top of the mountain, on all that around, shall be most holy. That means we live for God and not for ourselves. And this altar is part of that. I believe. What's the sacrifice that we're called to offer? Romans twelve tells us, in view of God's mercies, offer your bodies as a living Sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God. This is your spiritual act of worship. So these priests who are offering this sacrifice, we are to give our lives. Not anything we buy, not anything we give. But everything we are, who we are. Because ultimately we are living stones being built up into the temple. Living God. The Holy Spirit who lives in us. So the Holy Spirit lives within us. The Holy Spirit moves among us. We are holy. So we should be holy to the Lord, dedicated to the Lord, consecrated to the Lord the Lord and living our lives as a living sacrifice to God. You might think, well that's that's hard. That's going to involve a lot of Inconvenience. Yeah, but it's also a privilege. It's a privilege. Because God has made us holy. The only reason why we can be holy is because Christ has made us holy. The only reason why we are sanctified is because Christ has sanctified us. So it's a privilege. And it should be a joy and a delight to give ourselves completely to the Lord When you get married, marriage is a picture of Christ and his church. When you get married, you give yourself to your spouse, and that means you don't give yourself to anybody else who's not your spouse. That's the same picture here Christ is our Lord. We don't have any other Lord. His word is is for us to follow. Not, you know, anything else. So we give ourselves to Christ because Because he's given himself to us, and we are the holy people of God. And that is a privilege, and that is a joy, and that should be our delight. That's how God is glorified. Let's pray. Father, what a joy it is to know you. What a privilege it is to be called by your name. Lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. Lead us to lay down our lives as living sacrifices And to see the privilege and the joy in that. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that is Ezekiel 43. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 44. I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day. In Hard.