Good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus. Through the word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Day 1012, 1012. We are back in Ezekiel looking at this end times eschatological idealized vision of the temple. Let's pray and we'll dig into the text today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for your word, every part of it. Even the challenging parts. Like we find here in Ezekiel 41 before us today, we pray that you would give us grace by your Holy Spirit to understand. And to walk in, we pray that you would write your word on our hearts, help us to see Christ and your will for our lives more clearly that we might love Jesus and follow you. That's what your word is designed to do in our lives, to do the work that you want it to do. In our hearts and lives, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Ezekiel 41. Then he brought me to the nave and measured the jams. On each side six cubits was the breadth of the jams. And the breadth of the entrance was ten cubits, and the sidewalls of the entrance were five cubits on either side, and he measured the length of the nave. forty cubits, and its breadth twenty cubits. Then he went into the inner room and measured the jams of the entrance two cubits and the entrance six cubits And the side walls on either side of the entrance seven cubits. And he measured the length of the room twenty cubits and its breadth twenty cubits across the nave. And he said to me, This is the most holy place. Then he measured the wall of the temple, six cubits thick, and the breadth of the side chambers, four cubits. all around the temple. And the side chambers were in three stories, one over another, thirty in each story. There were offsets all around the wall of the temple to serve as supports for the side chambers so that they should not be supported by the wall of the temple. And it became broader as it wound upward to the side chambers because the temple was enclosed upward all around the temple. Thus the temple had a broad area upward, and so one went from the lowest story to the top story through the middle story. I saw also that the temple had a raised platform all around. The foundations of the side chambers measured a full reed of six long cubits. The thickness of the outer wall of the side chambers was five cubits. The free space between the side chambers of the temple and the other chambers was a breadth of twenty cubits all around the temple on every side. And the doors of the side chambers opened on the free space, one door toward the north and another door toward the south, and the breadth of the free space was five cubits all around. The building that was facing the separate yard on the west side was 70 cubits broad, and the wall of the building was five cubits thick all around, and its length ninety cubits. Then he measured the temple, a hundred cubits long, and the yard and the building with its walls a hundred cubits long. Also the breadth of the east front of the temple and the yard a hundred cubits. Then he measured the length of the building facing the yard that was at the back, and its galleries on either side, a hundred cubits. The inside of the nave and the vestibules of the court, the thresholds and the narrow windows and the galleries all around, the three of them opposite the threshold were panelled with wood all around, from the floor up to the windows Now the windows were covered to the space above the door, even to the inner room and on the outside, and on all the walls all around, inside and outside, was a measured pattern. It was carved of cherubim and palm trees, a palm tree between cherub and cherub. Every cherub had two faces. a human face toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the other side. They were carved on the whole temple all around From the floor to above the door, cherub and palm trees were carved. Similarly, the wall of the nave The door posts of the nave were squared, and in front of the holy place was something resembling an altar of wood, three cubits high, two cubits long, and two cubits broad. Its corners, its face, and its walls were of wood. He said to me, This is the table that is before the Lord. The knave and the holy place had each A double door. The double doors had two leaves apiece, two swinging leaves for each door, and on the doors of the nave were carved cherubim and palm trees, such as were carved on the walls, and there was a canopy of wood in front of the vestibule outside, and there were narrow windows and palm trees on either side of the side walls of the vestibule. the side chambers of the temple and the canopies. Alright, that is Ezekiel 41. Now just for some background To refresh from when we were in this passage a couple of days ago, there are different ways of looking at this Temple. I'm going to simplify it and break it down. Basically, there's two main options for how we can interpret this. One is a belief that in the millennium In the millennial reign of Christ on earth, this temple will be built in Jerusalem on the Temple Mount and that it will be a fully functioning temple throughout the thousand-year reign of Christ on earth. Now, number one, that presupposes that there will definitely be a thousand-year reign of Christ on earth. earth or a millennium, in which case it is a pre-millennial return of Christ. When I did Revelation twenty, I told you that's not my view. I don't think that's the best way to read the reference to the millennium. That's pretty brief, and it's there in Revelation 20. Rather, I think the millennium is the church age, and during the church age, Satan is bound from And the evidence of that is seen right away in Pentecost when thousands of souls come to the Lord Jesus and how during the Apostolic Age The gospel goes from Spain to India to Ethiopia to Rome, and there are tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of converts that are brought into dozens of churches that are all around the world, whereas for two thousand years prior to that, the the message of a one true God never got outside of Israel because the nations were blinded. While Satan still blinds the minds of unbelievers, and he still works in the world through the beasts and the false prophet, that that is corrupt political rulers and false religions to deceive people, he no longer has the strength and the power to completely deceive the nations and to keep So I think I think the millennium is is the church age. My short version of that. And I think that this temple then is not something that's going to be built during an earthly millennium. I don't think there's going to be an earthly millennium. Also, even in Revelation We do see this temple city, but we don't see it in the passage on the millennium There's nowhere in the Bible that describes a millennial reign of Christ on earth with a temple being rebuilt. You're putting things together that the Bible doesn't put together. We do see this temple revealed from heaven, I believe, in Revelation 21. It's not just me, there's G. K. Beale, who's a scholar at Westminster Theological Seminary and and some others. um have seen that. And it has to do with the way that this passage is introduced and then the way that Revelation 21 reads. So let's go back to Ezekiel 40, in the twenty-fifth year of our exile, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, and the fourteenth year after the city was struck down. So twenty-fifth year of exile, fourteenth year after the complete destruction of Jerusalem. In visions of God, he led me to the land of Israel, set me on a very high mountain, on which there was a structure like a city to the south. When he brought me there, behold, there was a man whose appearance was like bronze, with a linen cord and a measuring reed in his hand, and he was standing in the gateway. So it's a it's really a city. And it's a it's a temple city. As as this description unfolds in the coming chapters, we'll see that this is not just a temple, but it is a temple city. And Ezekiel is brought to a high mountain to to see it. Well, let's go to Revelation twenty-one. I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more, and I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem. coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, they will be his people, and God himself will be with them and will be their God. And then let's look down at verse 9. Then came one of the seven angels, who had one of the seven bowls full of the last plagues, and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb And he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, having the glory of God, its radiance like a most rare jewel, like a jasper clear as crystal. It had a great high wall with twelve gates. etc and there's no temple in the city verse 22 for the temple is the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of the Lord gives it light. So This is a holy city which is itself a temple because God is in the midst of her. God will dwell in her and will be their God. That's all in Revelation 21. I think that Revelation 21 is deliberately picking up on some of this language. Later, this this temple in Ezekiel is even called, it's called by the name, the Lord is there, or the Lord is in her, which is exactly what we're shown. about the holy city than New Jerusalem. So I think this is the temple that is revealed. And even more bef before this is revealed, twice We have references to things that are in Ezekiel 38 and 39. You have Gog and Magog, and you have the birds of the air being invited to feast on the flesh of the of the slain. enemies of God. So those are references from 38 and 39 and they're right there in Revelation 19 and 20 and then Revelation 21 we get this this holy city temple. And just as Ezekiel is taken to a high mountain to view it, John's taken from it to a high mountain to view it. And then we're told in Revelation what this temple city is. It's the bride of the Lamb. Who's the bride of the Lamb? The church. So the Holy Temple City that's revealed as New Jerusalem is the glorified and perfected church. And as we said, that's not new. The church is referred to as a temple that's being built in 1 Peter 2, in Ephesians 2, and I think even by Jesus. In Matthew 16, also in John 2, when he says, of the temple, tear it down, I'll rebuild it in three days, and he's talking about his body. The body of Christ is the temple The church is the body of Christ, the temple is the bride of Christ, the bride of Christ is the church. You start putting all these pieces together that have the same language, and you get the picture that this is The church. Now, the the way we're seeing it in Ezekiel is the way it's revealed in Revelation in its glorious and perfected and final form, but it's being built even now. You and I are living stones being built up into this holy temple. It's symbolic, yes, but that doesn't mean that it's not real. It's very real. The church is very real. The glorious project of building the church from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation is very real. And it will be fulfilled in glory when Jesus comes again. We're given this detailed description. There's a couple of things I want us to see today. We're going to be spending several days with this temple. But a couple of things I want us to see today is that this temple is very large. Its walls are very thick, and it has many chambers and sections. So the temple, the church, is very large. It's made up of a countless multitude from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. We are living stones being built into this holy temple. We're not all the same. We're not all in the same place. We don't all have the same function. We don't all fit in the same way. But we're all part. of the project that God is doing, this large, this diverse, this multi-roomed temple that God is building. The thickness of the walls. You notice that in several of the places the walls are actually thicker than the rooms that they enclose. You have some places where the walls are five cubits thick and the room inside is only two cubits across. That's very, very thick walls. What does that denote? Strength. Strength. The church is founded on the Lord Jesus Christ and is unopposable It is, to use language from Daniel, and the vision of the statue that Nebuchadnezzar saw in Daniel chapter 2, the church is this rock. that grows into a mountain that fills the whole world. And so it's very, very strong. One more thing. In one section we have this uh image of all these carvings. Cherubim and palm tree, a palm tree between cherubim and cherub. And then the cherub itself is the face of a man and the face of a young lion. Just a couple of comments about this. The palm tree is the provision of the Lord. Palms had dates The the honey of the land flowing with milk and honey. That honey reference is actually to date honey. So you have date palms. They per they produce dates, not coconuts. And these dates are made into a wonderful honey. So it's it's the provision of God. And then the cherub is the protection of God. Don't think of the little tiny baby type thing. with little wings that are so cute that you see on Valentine's Day and in decorations or whatever. No. Cherubs are fierce warrior angels. They protect. God provides for his people and God protects his people. And then the cherubs have the face, a face of a man, and the face of a lion. The lion, king of beasts, Jesus, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the man, the son of man, the wisdom. So there's power and strength, there's wisdom, and I believe that they are they are representing Christ as being the one who is the one who protects and who provides. So we need to remember a few things for today. 1. Christ is building his church. 2. His church is very strong. We we see the church as it looks on earth, which is this mixed multitude of some are believers and some are not believers and some are good and some are not so good, but the true church that Christ is building If we can see it from his perspective of what he's really doing is strong. It is large, it is diverse. And He is in our midst to provide for us and to protect us. And so we can and we must trust him. So a church that's not all about Christ. is missing the mark wildly. So many churches have become all about making people feel good or equipping people with practical help to have a better life or encouraging people with a sort of you can do it message. That's not what the the church is the is the dwelling place of Christ On earth. It's a place where God's people meet with our Savior. So a Christ-centered church is a faithful church and is a fruitful church. And is a secure church. And that's the church that you and I should want to make sure that we are a part of. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your church that your son is building. May we be faithful to Jesus and faithful to the building of his church for his glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That is Ezekiel 41. Tomorrow we're going to go on to Ezekiel 42. I hope you'll join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.