Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 986th day together in the Word of God. We come to Ezekiel 24, a seminal turning point in this book. The prophecies up to this point had been before the destruction of Jerusalem, and now it's the beginning of the siege of Jerusalem. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you for your word and for what we've been learning, how you grow us through your word. We pray that you'd speak to us through Ezekiel 24 today. Write it on our hearts. Help us to understand. Understand it clearly, help us to see Christ and our hope in our King. We pray this in his name. Amen. Ezekiel twenty-four. In the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, write down the name of this day. This very day, the king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem this very day. And utter a parable to the rebellious house, and say to them, Thus says the Lord God: Set on the pot, set it on, pour in water also. Put in it the pieces of meat, all the good pieces, the thigh and the shoulder, fill it with choice bones. Take the choicest one of the flock. Pile the logs under it Boil it well. Seethe also the bones in it. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Woe to the bloody city. To the pot whose corrosion is in it, and whose corrosion has not gone out of it. Take out of it piece after piece without making any choice. For the blood she has shed is in her midst. She put it on the bare rock. She did not pour it out on the ground to cover it with dust To rouse my wrath, to take vengeance, I have set it on the bare rock, the blood that she has shed, that it may not be covered. Therefore, thus saith the Lord God, woe to the bloody city. I also will make the pile great. Heap on the logs, kindle the fire, boil the meat well, mix in the spices, and let the bones be burned up. Then set it empty upon the coals, that it may become hot. And its copper may burn, that its uncleanness may be melted in it, its corrosion consumed She has wearied herself with toil. Its abundant corrosion does not go out of it into the fire with its corrosion. On account of your unclean lewdness, because I would have cleansed you, and you were not cleansed from your uncleanness You shall not be cleansed anymore till I have satisfied my fury upon you. I am the Lord. I have spoken. It shall come to pass, I will do it, I will not go back, I will not spare, I will not relent. According to your ways and your deeds, you will be judged, declares the Lord God. The word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, behold, I am about to take the delight of your eyes away from you at a Stroke. Yet you shall not mourn or weep, nor shall your tears run down. Sigh, but not aloud. Make no mourning for the dead. Bind on your turban, and put on your shoes on your feet. Do not cover your lips nor eat the bread of men. So I spoke to the people in the morning. And that evening, my wife died. And on the next morning I did as I was commanded And the people said to me, Will you not tell us what these things mean for us? That you are acting thus? Then I said to them, The word of the Lord came to me. Say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will profane my sanctuary The pride of your power, the delight of your eyes, and the yearning of your soul, and your sons and daughters whom you left behind shall fall by the sword. And you shall do as I have done. You shall not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men. Your turbans shall be on your heads, and your shoes on your feet. You shall not mourn or weep. But you shall rot away in your iniquities and groan to one another, thus shall Ezekiel be to you a sign. According to all that he has done, you shall do. When this comes, then you will know that I am the Lord. As for you, Son of Man Surely on the day when I take from them their stronghold, their joy and glory, the delight of their eyes and their soul's desire, and also their sons and daughters, on that day a fugitive will come to you To report to you the news. On that day your mouth will be opened to the fugitive, and you shall speak and no longer be mute So you will be assigned to them, and they will know that I am the Lord. Ezekiel had a hard ministry. Challenging. You know, we we live in in the West, especially in America. with a very comfortable and complacent Christianity. Very self-serving, very much a Christianity of convenience. We have our pick of a wide variety of churches around us of different flavors, different styles, different emphases, and we can pick one that that feels comfortable to us, that that's fitting for us. Right. And I'm not saying that that's necessarily a bad thing, I but it can become a bad thing if that's sort of the driving factor, being comfortable. being complacent, being self-satisfied. Because that's really where God's people were, right before the temple found They were complacent. They were self-satisfied because they had the temple. And they would say, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. But they had spilled blood. They had shed blood in sacrifice to false gods. They had they had meat That they had offered up to false gods that they were eating. And then they would go to the temple and offer up sacrifices to the one true God and eat that meat They were immoral. They were unfaithful. They were complacent. Complacent Christianity allows us to be two-faced. You know, we're one way on Monday, we're a different way on Saturday night, we're a different way on Sunday morning, we've got our workplace self, we've got our social self, we've got our church self, and and there's no integrity. To our soul. There's no integrity to our walk with the Lord in every season of life, in every circumstance of life. God gave Ezekiel a very difficult ministry. He had to say hard words. Woe to the bloody city, I will also make the pile great. He bought the logs, kindled the fire. Hard words he had to say. But then he also was called to do some hard things. It was hard when he had to lay on one side every day for over a year and then turn and lay on the other side every day for forty days and eat nothing during that whole time but bread. cooked over cow dung. Remember that? That was hard. It was hard when he had to play the part of an exile and dig a hole in the wall and put a pack on his back. But now The hardest thing Ezekiel's called to is his wife. He loves his wife. The Lord says, she's the delight of your eyes. He loves his wife. They have a good marriage. She dies. Suddenly, the same day that he's given this message, she dies that evening, and he's not allowed to mourn. Let's keep his mouth shut about it This happens, and of course, this is so countercultural, so bizarre. Everyone knew that Ezekiel was a godly man, that he loved his wife. Why would he not mourn her passing? So he tells them. And the hard thing he's had to do and the hard worry he has to bring come together. And he has to tell them, this is going to be you, the delight of your eyes, which is the temple, that which you're boasting in, that which you're trusting in, you're here. Remember, Ezekiel's in Babylon. So he's like, you're here in Babylon. But you're thinking, we're going to get back to Jerusalem. We're going to see that temple again. It's been 10 years, but we're going to get back. We're going to see that temple again. It's gone. It's gone. You're never going to see it again. Now it's going to be rebuilt, but it'll be another sixty years after this before it's rebuilt. All these people who were hearing Ezekiel, including Ezekiel himself, will be gone by that time. So it's gone. And your sons and daughters who are left behind are gone. And you won't even be able to mourn because you're in captivity. And you're not able to really mourn. So the Lord does relent at the end of this, and he's going to allow Ezekiel to speak again. Remember, for for years now, Ezekiel's been under this charge from the Lord that he's not allowed to open his mouth and say anything except what the Lord gives him to say. He's not allowed to speak casual conversation except when the Lord gives him something to say. So finally he's going to be relieved from this, and he's able to open his mouth again. This goes back all the way to chapter 13. I mean sorry, chapter 3. Finally, he'll be able to speak. But this is a hard thing. What what do we take from this? How do we apply this? Well, first of all, God said he was not going to relent. until the the fullness of his wrath had been satisfied, until he poured out the full measure. The full measure of God's wrath for our sins was ultimately poured out of Jesus Christ on the cross. Jesus Christ is the delight of his Father's eyes. So if this was hard, what Ezekiel had to do, watch his wife die and not be able to mourn. God the Father had to watch the delight of his eyes, his son, who is actually the very embodiment of the temple in human form, the very God of very God. The beloved one, God said from the cloud twice at his baptism and on the Mount of Transfiguration, this is my son whom I love. It watch him die. Even while he himself, God the Father, was pouring out his wrath on his son who was made sin for us. Second Corinthians 5. 21, God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, so that through him we might become sin The righteousness of God or what Romans 3 says, God put him forth as a propitiation in his blood, a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice. Yes, losing the temple was hard for the Israelites. Yes, losing his wife was hard for Ezekiel. But that all pales in comparison. To how hard it was for God to give his one and only son, how hard it was for Jesus to offer up his life. And that was ultimately what it took to satisfy divine justice. Nothing less than that. Would forgive us of our idolatry. We need to be thankful and humbled. And quit being complacent and self-satisfied, not in the light of the cross, not in the shadow of the death of the Son of God for our sins. Smug, complacent, comfortable, self-satisfied Christianity has to go. We need to worship God in spirit and in truth. We need to press in to know God more. We need more, Jesus. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for loving us beyond What we could ever begin to understand. We can't imagine being called to go through what Ezekiel had to go through. Lose his wife and not be able to mourn. You had to pour out your wrath on your son. Lord Jesus, you had to drink the cup of the fury, of the just punishment for our sin, down to the bottom. In love for us, nothing else could save us. We are so thankful. May we live for you and for your glory and not settle for anything. In less, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. That is Ezekiel twenty-four. Powerful chapter. Tomorrow One of my favorite chapters in all of Scripture, Revelation 21. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.