Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Benhel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. in beautiful Harford County, Maryland, and we are here in Ezekiel chapter 5 on our 958th day together in the Word of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father You are faithful and true, and your word never fails. Help us to believe it and to receive it as you teach us by your Holy Spirit today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezekiel chapter five. And you, O Son of Man, take a sharp sword, use it as a barber's razor, and pass it over your head and your beard. Then take balances for weighing, and divide the hair. A third part you shall burn in the fire in the midst of the city when the days of the siege are completed, and a third part you shall take and strike with the sword all around the city, and a third part you shall scatter to the wind. and I will unsheathe the sword after them. And you shall take from these a small number, and bind them in the skirts of your robe And of these again you shall take some and cast them into the midst of the fire and burn them in the fire. From there a fire will come out into all the house of Israel. Thus says the Lord God, this is Jerusalem. I have set her in the center of the nations with countries all around her, and she has rebelled against my rules by doing wickedness. more than the nations, and against my statutes more than the countries all around her, for they have rejected my rules and have not walked in my statutes Therefore, thus says the Lord God, because you are more turbulent than the nations that are all around you, and have not walked in my statutes or obeyed my rules, and have not even acted acted according to the rules of the nations that are all around you. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold I, even I am against you And I will execute judgments in your midst in the sight of the nations. And because of all your abominations, I will do with you What I have never yet done, and the like of which I will never do again. Therefore, fathers shall eat their sons in your midst And sons shall eat their fathers, and I will execute judgments on you, and any of you who survive I will scatter to all the winds Therefore, as I live, declares the Lord God, surely, because you have defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable things, and with all your abominations, therefore I will withdraw My eye will not spare, and I will have no pity. A third part of you shall die of pestilence and be consumed with famine in your midst A third part shall fall by the sword all around you, and a third part I will scatter to all the winds, and will unsheathe the sword after them Thus shall my anger spend itself, and I will vent my fury upon them and satisfy myself And they shall know that I am the Lord, that I have spoken in my jealousy, when I spend my fury upon them Moreover, I will make you a desolation, and an object of reproach among the nations all around you, and in the sight of all who pass by. You shall be a reproach and a taunt, a warning and a horror to all the nations all around you when I execute judgments on you in anger and fury and with furious rebukes. I am the Lord, I have spoken. When I send against you the deadly arrows of famine, arrows for destruction, which I will send to destroy you, and when I bring more and more famine upon you and break your supply of bread, I will send famine and wild beasts against you And they will rob you of your children. Pestilence and blood shall pass through you, and I will bring the sword upon you. I am the Lord I have spoken. Ezekiel five, hard, hard word, but a true word, and a word that God brought about because of his justice We forget too easily that God is holy and that God is just That he despises unfaithfulness, idolatry, wickedness among his people. And we can say, oh, this is Old Testament, this is before Jesus came God's a God of grace and mercy now. God's always been a God of grace and mercy. But he's always been a God of justice and holiness as well. And he remains that way. He extended grace and mercy to his people in Jerusalem for generation after generation after generation. He sent warning, he sent prophets, he gave his word, he rebuked their idolatry. And they continue to sin against him. You cannot willfully, habitually, repeatedly, stubbornly, sin against the Lord without consequence. It's the New Testament that says in Galatians 5, do not be deceived. God cannot be mocked Whatever a man sows, that he will also reap. If you sow to the flesh, you will from the flesh reap destruction. If you sow to the spirit, you will from the spirit reap eternal life And so if the church today is caught up in patterns of worldliness, idolatry, some Mainline churches, Episcopal Church USA, PC USA, United Methodist Church, Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, United Church of Christ Some pockets of the Roman Catholic Church, actually the whole Roman Catholic Church for other reasons, if these mainline churches have gone astray, they've gone astray from even believing that the Bible is the Word of God. That Jesus really is the only way of salvation, that the gospel is true and good news for all the world. They select what they want to believe. And they've completely swallowed the lies of the world that all ways of God are equal, that we're all brothers and sisters all around the world That, you know, love is love, you know, all these kinds of things that that have a of a varnish of piety over a core of rot. But then within the conservative evangelical world of non-denominational churches or Southern Baptists or Charismatics or Pentecostals or Reformed churches like the PCA, we believe in the Bible. We say the Bible is the Word of God. We believe in Jesus. We believe in the gospel. We believe in biblical standards of morality as well. But we can give in too easily to political idolatry thinking that gaining and keeping political power will make the church stronger. We can give in to worldliness. Entertainment, consumerism, instead of spirit and truth worship We can say we believe the Word of God, but then we can preach a message that is what itching ears want to hear about how to have a better life, how to have your best life now. This is all idolatry. All of this is idolatry and worldliness. It's unfaithfulness to God. The church is the Jerusalem in the world. We've been given God's word. We've been set in the center of all the nations. We are the light of the world. We are the city on a hill. We are the salt of the earth because we've been given the covenant promises. We've been given the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We've been given the Word of God. What are we doing with it? Are we worshiping God, Lord's Day by Lord's Day, in spirit and in truth, together with God's people? Have we entered into covenant community as the church to be committed? to the gospel, to one another, and to reaching our neighbors and nations. Have we said we are God's holy people, and that will define us at the core of who we are And we are covenanted together as the church to be the church. Have we rejected political idolatry and consumerism and entertainment culture for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ? And are we living lives that are consistent with our confession of faith? I hope that we are. I hope that we are. That's what we're striving to do it for still. We're striving to be a faithful church. For the Word of God, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the right worship of God. Missions, evangelism, discipleship, that these things are in the core of our DNA and what we're all about. And I pray that we would continue to be faithful and that God would make us fruitful. Because This warning here in Ezekiel 5 is a warning to the church today of what happens when uncontrolled idolatry Spirals out of control for generation upon generation. We've seen it happen. Look at Europe. It's collapsed in on itself because of the idolatry, the worldliness, the rejection of truth Look at places that are up and coming in the world, places where nations are rising. Very often it's where the gospel is thriving and bearing fruit. Because it's being believed and preached and lived. May the Lord make us faithful. May the Lord make us faithful. Let's pray. Father, we hear this message again and again. The prophets just keep calling us back to this core message. We belong to you. We are your holy people. The Lord Jesus has purchased us with his own precious blood. We are your church. Jerusalem didn't hear the message. They didn't listen. They didn't repent. Give us tender hearts to listen. Give us tender hearts to repent. Maybe we need to repent of watching things that we know we shouldn't be watching or listening to things that we know we shouldn't be listening to. Maybe we need to repent of being cowardly. In speaking the truth about Christ in love to those that you've placed in our lives. Maybe we need to be more committed to your church. Maybe your church needs to be more committed to your gospel and your kingdom. Wherever we need to repent, grant us repentance. Strengthen us to obey you with a faithfulness that your Holy Spirit alone can give us We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. That is Ezekiel 5. Tomorrow we're going to go on to Ezekiel 6. I do pray that you have a blessed day in the Lord.