Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Day 1022 brings us to Ezekiel 48 as we wrap up this wonderful and challenging book. Let's pray. Father in heaven, it has been a joy and a delight to be able to spend day after day in your word for nearly three years and to cover almost all of it. We're coming down the home stretch, Lord, by your faithfulness to us. Thank you. We pray that you would teach us from Ezekiel 48 today as we wrap up this book from this faithful prophet We pray that we would hear your word and respond to it with faith and obedience. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Ezekiel 48. These are the names of the tribes. Beginning at the northern extreme beside the way of Hathlon to Lebo Hamath as far as Hazar-Enon, which is on the northern border of Damascus, over against Hamath and extending from the east side to the west, Dan, one portion, adjoining the territory of Dan from the east side to the west, Asher. one portion, adjoining the territory of Asher from the east side to the west, Naphtali one portion. Adjoining the territory of Naphtali from the east side to the west, Manasseh one portion. Adjoining the territory of Manasseh from the east side to the west, Ephraim, one portion. Adjoining the territory of Ephraim from the east side to the west, Reuben one portion. Adjoining the territory of Reuben from the east side to the west, Judah, one portion. Adjoining the territory of Judah from the east side to the west. shall be the portion which you shall set apart, twenty-five thousand cubits in breadth and in length equal to one of the tribal portions from the east side to the west, with the sanctuary in the midst of it. The portion that you shall set apart for the Lord shall be twenty-five thousand cubits in length and twenty thousand in breadth. These shall be the allotments of the holy portion. The priests shall have an allotment measuring twenty-five thousand cubits on the northern side, ten thousand cubits in breadth on the western side. 10,000 in breadth on the eastern side, and 25,000 in length on the southern side, with the sanctuary of the Lord in the midst of it This shall be for the consecrated priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept my charge, who did not go astray when the people of Israel went astray, as the Levites did. And it shall belong to them as a special portion from the holy portion of the land, a most holy place, adjoining the territory of the Levites And alongside the territory of the priests, the Levites shall have an allotment, twenty-five thousand cubits in length, and ten thousand in breadth, the whole length shall be twenty-five thousand cubits, and the breadth twenty thousand They shall not sell or exchange any of it. They shall not alienate this choice portion of the land, for it is holy to the Lord. The remainder, 5,000 cubits in breadth and 25,000 in length, shall be for common use for the city, for dwellings, and for open country. In the midst of it shall be the city. And these shall be its measurement. On the north side 4,500 cubits, the south side four thousand five hundred, the east side four thousand five hundred, the west side four thousand five hundred And the city shall have open land. On the north, 250 cubits, on the south, 250, on the east, 250, on the west, 250. The remainder of the length, alongside the holy portion, shall be ten thousand cubits to the east, and ten thousand to the west, and it shall be alongside the holy portion. Its produce shall be food for the workers of the city. And the workers of the city from all the tribes of Israel shall till it. The whole portion that you shall set apart shall be 25,000 cubits square. That is the holy portion together with the property of the city. What remains on both sides of the holy portion and of the property of the city shall belong to the prince, extending from the twenty five thousand cubits of the holy portion to the east border and westward from the 25,000 cubits to the west border, parallel to the tribal portions, it shall belong to the prince. The holy portion with the sanctuary of the temple shall be in its midst. It shall be separate from the property of the Levites, and the property of the city. which are in the midst of that which belongs to the prince. The portion of the prince shall lie between the territory of Judah and the territory of Benjamin. As for the rest of the tribes from the east side to the west, Benjamin one portion, adjoining the territory of Benjamin from the east side to the west, Simeon one portion. Adjoining the territory of Simeon from the east side to the west, Issachar, one portion. Adjoining the territory of Issachar from the east side to the west, Zebulun, one portion. adjoining the territory of Zebulun from the east side to the west, Gad, one portion, and adjoining the territory of Gad to the south, on the bound the boundary shall run from Tamar to the waters of Meribah Kadesh, from there along the brook of Egypt to the Great Sea. This is the land that you shall allot as an inheritance among the tribes of Israel, and these are their portions, declares the Lord God. There shall be exits. These shall be the exits of the city. On the north side, which is to be forty-five hundred cubits by measure, three gates, the gate of Reuben, the gate of Judah, the gate of Levi, the gates of the city being named after the tribes of Israel. On the east side, which is to be 4500 cubits, three gates. The gate of Joseph, the gate of Benjamin, the gate of Dan. On the south side, which is to be 4,500 cubits by measure, three gates the gate of Simeon, the gate of Issachar, the gate of Zebulun. On the west side, which is to be 4,500 cubits, three gates. The gate of Gad, the gate of Asher, the gate of Naphtali. The circumference of the city shall be 18,000 cubits, and the name of the city from that time on shall be the Lord is There. That is Ezekiel 48, the final chapter in the book of Ezekiel. So this final chapter of Ezekiel is really wrapping up the description of this new land. And again, as we've been saying all along, nothing in history has really fulfilled this. So some people are saying that this is a vision of the millennium, the millennial kingdom of Christ after he returns, that requires a premillennial understanding of the second coming of Christ. But I think it's symbolic and not that that doesn't make it real. Some people hear it's symbolic and mean, oh, that's not real. No, I think it's going to be very real. uh very real in the new in the new heavens and the new earth. But perhaps a better way to say other than symbolic is that the fulfillment of this will be grander And more expansive than we could ever imagine. And I do think we get the picture of the final fulfillment of this in The Book of Revelation, especially in the last couple of chapters, but really woven throughout the Book of Revelation. But first, let's just get our orientation as to what we're hearing here. in chapter 48. This helpful map here from Crossway. It's in the ESV study Bible. Basically we're we're being taken north to south. And each tribe is given an equal portion of land that stretches from east to west, and they're stacked one on top of another. So Dan at the top, and then Asher, and then Naphtali, then Manasseh, then Ephraim, then Reuben, then Judah. and Benjamin. And in here, in the territory between Judah and Benjamin is the holy portion. And the holy portion is that which is set apart for the holy city and the temple. So the temple you see in the middle there, and then you see the city around it, and then you see the land around that. The holy portion includes land around there. Some of it belongs to the prince, some of it belongs to the Levites, some of it belongs to the priest, and some of it is there for the cultivation of food. And then you continue on to the south. Benjamin, Simeon, Issachar, Zebulun. We're not really sure exactly what the Brook of Egypt is, so we don't know exactly where the southern border of of this um glorified form of Israel. So should does this mean that we should think that in the new heavens and the new earth, when there's a new earth that the ethnic people of Israel are going to be settled in the Holy Land like this. Maybe, I mean that's not impossible, but it seems unlikely. What rather seems to be happening here is that God says he's going to take care of all of the needs of his people. Everything's going to be well administered. Everything's going to be well proportioned. No one's going to be left out. There's not going to be Some people who are, you know, much better off than others. God's gonna take care of it and He's going to see to it. And so if you really try to sketch this out because of the geography of of Israel, like all of these southern tribes, Benjamin, Simeon, Issachar, Zebulun, Gad, that's all very, very dry land. Now We had the river of life flowing from the temple to the Dead Sea and making it alive so that it can be used to fertilize all this area. So that's that's a way of you know, saying this is actually going to be green and verdant again, but I think that's a picture of something bigger. And that is that the whole world is going to be recreated. It's going to be a new earth. And in the new earth, there's not going to be these waste regions, these areas that are just completely unusable for human cultivation where, you know, no life is, no dead seas, no desert areas. It's gonna be lush, it's gonna be vibrant, it's gonna be good. So where do we see pictures of this in in Revelation, this expansive, the expansive fulfillment of this? So let me take you to just a couple of places really quickly. and show you this. One is in Revelation 7, we're shown two pictures of the holy people of God. One is a picture in terms of the tribes Just like we have the tribes laid out in Ezekiel 48. Here the tribes are laid out in Revelation 7. And there's a port a portioned number, an equally portioned number. So when you have that map that shows the equal proportions, for every tribe, which never was that way in history, but you see it in in the new heavens and the new earth is equal or in whatever this fulfillment of uh Israel is as an equal portion. We see equality here in the listing of the twelve tribes where there's twelve thousand from Now, these numbers, all numbers in Revelation, are highly meaningful. They have a meaning beyond the literal. So there's 12,000, 12 is the number of the people of God. 12 times 12, 144. And then thousand really big. So, but it's equal, you see. And so this idea of the equal division of the land is shown here in the equal ceiling of the people But the expansiveness is shown in that in the first eight verses of Revelation 7, we're shown 144,000 sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel. But then he looks and beholds a great multitude that no one could number. That's way more than 144,000. We had censuses taken in the Old Testament that would include up to a million people. This is a number, a great multitude that no one can number. We do a census every ten years in the United States and we're able to count like 350 million. This is a multitude no one can number. The stars in the sky, the sand on the seashore. This is a vast multitude. These are also the children of Abraham, heirs of the promise. And in Christ there's not a Jew-Gentile distinction. So I think what we're shown are two different pictures of the same group of people in two different ways. One in in it really in the fulfillment of two different promises. One is this Ezekiel promise. that all the tribes of Israel will be preserved and that all the land will be given to them. But then the other tri promise from Abraham is that All the families of the earth will be blessed, because this great multitude that no one can number is from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages So I think we're given two different pictures. One is to say, I'm keeping my promise to made to the people of Israel, but I'm also I'm keeping my promise made to Abraham about his about his offspring being more than the stars in the sky, or as many as the stars in the sky, as many as the grains of sand on the seashore, and from every nation, every nation on the on earth will be blessed through you, that this is one people of God, but with two aspects of the fulfillment of the promise. And then as we go to Revelation 21 We are given this vision of the New Jerusalem, the holy city, and there are gates. Verse 12, Revelation 21, verse 12. It had a great high wall with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and on the gates The names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed, on the east three gates, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the west three gates. And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. Now in Ezekiel's vision, we're not shown the twelve foundations. They're added here in Revelation. Again, this is the expansive vision. The twelve gates are the same as the twelve gates from Ezekiel 48. Three on each side with the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. That's exactly what we see. So this is yet another connection. This is just still more evidence, by the way that uh the fulfillment of this temple city vision is in fact found in Revelation twenty-one and twenty-two. We had the name of the place that the Lord is here. It's being taken up on a high mountain to view the city. It's the twelve gates with the twelve names of the twelve tribes, it's the river of the water of life in the middle, with the trees on either side, with the bearing its fruit in every month, and its leaves are faithful healing of the nation. All of these pieces from these chapters in Ezekiel, they're brought in and woven into the vision in Revelation 21 and 22. I think the cumulative effect of that is to make it very clear that this is the fulfillment. But It's not just the fulfillment of all that Israel was intended to be. It's expansive beyond that. What's another way to think about this? God made a covenant promise to Abraham. That covenant promise is on a human level, in terms of the recep reception by a human being, it is the foundation of the covenant of grace, what we call the covenant of grace. The book of Galatians is all about how we are heirs of these promises with with Abraham. We are Abraham's offspring. We are, Gentiles though we be. But then God made promises to the nation of Israel of Abraham's sons. It was specifically his grandson Jacob, who became Israel, and his twelve sons, who become the twelve tribes of Israel, and a promise of kingship. All of these promises come together in Christ and are kept. 2 Corinthians 1. 20, as many as are the promises of God, they are yes in Christ. And they are brought into glory at the end of all things, all of it. The redemption of the land, the redemption of the people, the holy city, except it's so expansive. Because the holy city, New Jerusalem, is 10,000 stadia per side. Which is about 1,500 miles, but it's 10,000 stadia per side, not 500 cubits. To go from 500 qubits to 10,000 stadia is is m massively huge. It's beyond comprehension. Just like to go from 144,000 sealed to a vast multitude that no one can count is a massive expansion. God's grace and his keeping of his promises are far more expansive than we understand or can comprehend It's all in Christ. But when everything's assembled at the end, when Jesus comes again and gathers in his own and raises all of those who are who are in him, and we all come together for the great wedding supper of the Lamb, we will see. It will be astounding. the vast multitudes of people who will be feasting with the Lamb of God as the triumphant more than conquerors, and then who will be given the land. Not just Israel, but the whole new earth will be given and no one will be without It's going to be wonderful, far more wonderful than we can imagine. So God's giving it to Ezekiel here in sort of miniature, but by revelation he makes it clear that he tends to expand this to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation and to the scope of the entire world. Do we believe that? And are we living for that hope? Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior and for keeping all of your promises in Christ. Thank you that we have a hope that nothing in this world can touch or take away. Thank you for that day coming. Help us to live for that hope. In Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for this study of Ezekiel. Wonderful. We still have 2 Corinthians that we're in, so we're going to go back to 2 Corinthians tomorrow, pick up chapter 8. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.