Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbytery. Church. It is day six hundred and twenty-three. We are in the book of Ezra, Ezra chapter four, and as you see the title there for chapter four from the ESV, adversaries oppose the rebuilding. The work of God never goes forward without opposition. There's always opposition. Sometimes it comes from within. People who are divided, who have conflicted loyalties, who have conflicted motives. Sometimes it comes from without, opposition from the world. And this is just the way the work of God has always been in the world. So if you're facing opposition and you're trying to do God's work, don't be discouraged. In fact, the encouraged, uh one of the sure signs that you are doing God's work is the opposition that comes from the enemy, because let's face it, the enemy doesn't want to see the church of God built up and the people of God Strengthened for battle against him, right? That's not good for him. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help on this chapter today. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for your love. Thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you for your Son, our Savior. Thank you for your church that we are privileged to be a part of. We do pray that you would bless us. Our time together. As we look at Ezra chapter 4, would your Holy Spirit, who inspired these words, guide us in understanding them, that we might glorify you in our lives? And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Ezra chapter four. Now, when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the Returned exiles were rebuilding a temple to the Lord, the God of Israel. They approached Zerubbabel and the heads of fathers' houses and said to them, Let us build with you. For we worship your God as you do, and we have been sacrificing to him ever since the days of Isar Haddin, king of Assyria, who brought us here. But to Rebabel, Jeshua, and the rest of the heads of fathers' houses in Israel said to them, You have nothing to do with us in building a house to our God, but we alone will build to the Lord, the God of Israel, as King Cyrus, the King of Persia, has commanded us. Then the people of the land disparaged the people of Judah and made them afraid to build and bribed counselors against them. To frustrate their purpose all the days of Cyrus, King of Persia, even until the reign of Darius, King of Persia. And in the reign of Hasueras, in the beginning of his reign, they wrote an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem. Jerusalem. In the days of Artaxerxes, Bishlam, and Mithrodeth, and Tabil, and the rest of their associates, wrote To Artaxerxes, king of Persia. The letter was written in Aramaic and translated. Rehum, the commander, And Shimshai, the scribe, wrote a letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king, as follows Rehum the commander, Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their associates, the judges, the governors, the officials, the Persians. the men of Erach, the Babylonians, the men of Susa, that is the Elamites, and the rest of the nations whom the great and noble Osnap Deported and settled in the cities of Samaria and in the rest of the province beyond the river. This is a copy of the letter that they sent. To Artaxerxes the king, your servants, the men of the province beyond the river, send greeting. And now Be it known to the king that the Jews who came up from you to us have gone to Jerusalem They are rebuilding that rebellious and wicked city. They are finishing the walls and repairing the foundations. Now be it known to the king That if this city is rebuilt and its walls finished, they will not pay tribute, custom, or toll, and the royal revenue will be impaired. Now, because we eat the salt of the palace, and it is not fitting for us to witness the king's dishonor, therefore we send and inform the king. In order that search may be made in the book of the records of your fathers, you will find in the book of the records and learn that this city is a rebellious city. City, hurtful to kings and provinces, and that sedition was stirred up in it from of old. Was laid waste, we make known to the king that if this city is rebuilt and its walls finished, you will then have no possession in the province beyond the River. The king sent an answer to Rehum the commander and Shimshai the scribe and the rest of their associates who live in Samaria and in the rest of the province beyond the river greeting And now the letter that you sent to us has been plainly read before me, and I made a decree, and search has been made. And it has been found that this city from of old has risen against kings, and that rebellion and sedition have been made in it. and mighty kings have been over Jerusalem, who ruled over the whole province beyond the river, to whom tribute, custom, and toll were paid. Therefore make a decree that these men be made to cease. and that this city be not rebuilt until a decree is made by me, and take care not to be slack in this matter. Why should it damage grow why should damage grow to the hurt of the king? Then, when the copy of King Artaxerxes' letter was read before Rehum and Shemshai, the scribe and their associates, they went in haste to the Jews at Jerusalem. Jerusalem, and by force and power may cease. Then the work on the house of God that is in Jerusalem stopped, and it ceased until the second year of the reign of Jerusalem. Darius, king of Persia. Well, this is why there was such a long delay, at least part of it. And so there's this inactivity for about uh fifteen years or so. Um and so there's this great delay in the rebuilding of the temple because of this opposition of the locals. Um adversaries. As I said, the work of God is always opposed. And you know, history, there's some use of history here as a manipulative propaganda tool in order to shame the people of God and to bring dishonor on the city of God. Uh and there's always some truth to it, right? We see this today, like many uh uh Christian missions that are trying to take the gospel into the Muslim majority world, the Middle East and other places It's been hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years since the days of the Crusades, but one of the things that still gets brought up regularly from Muslims who are trying to They say, well, these Christians they came on crusade here hundreds of years ago. They slaughtered innocent women and children and Christianity is evil because it's the Crusader religion. And we can't possibly embrace the Crusader religion that invaded our homeland and that killed our women and children. And of course, there's some truth to that, right? The Crusades were a rather ugly period of time in church history. There was much atrocity. Of course, there were atrocities committed by both sides during the Crusades, and the atrocities committed by the Muslims against the Christians predate uh the counter-atrocities by the Christians against the Muslims. And so it's a true but selective telling of the history, isn't it? And that's exactly what's happening here, because they are rebuilding Under the direct order of Cyrus, king of Persia. And that's what they tell these men at first. At first, these men surrounding come to them With what seems like an olive branch, what seems like a peaceful petition, let us build with you. For we worship your God as you do. And there's, again, there's some truth to this, right? All lies have to be If they're just all lies, well, they won't have very much persuasive power. But if you can tell something that has a lot of truth to it with just a little bit of lie sprinkled in to taint it, then that can be very powerful and effective and very persuasive. So we see that example in this chapter. Well not really, because there was no temple. Um how did these people come to worship God? Remember these were people who were put here by the Assyrians. The Assyrians had resettled people into northern Israel after they had conquered Israel in 722 A. D. So they conquered northern Israel and then they re they re-established uh people in the land who were from other places. And if you remember from uh 2 Chronicles Chronicles when these people came in and they were established in the land, like they didn't know like they were having some problems. They had some droughts and they had some wild beasts who were tearing them apart and attacking them and they They said, the reason why we're having these problems is that we don't know the gods of this land. We need to learn how to worship them. And so they began to worship Yahweh as the God of that land. See, that's not worshiping God the same way that believers do, because we worship him as the one true God, maker of heaven and earth. They were worshiping him as the God of that land. Right? The the Lord the God of Israel, the God of this land, not the God of all heaven and earth. And so they do they worship the same God? Not exactly because they have a different conception of who God is. Uh some Bible scholars have tried to make this opposition from Zerubbabel and Jeshua to these outsiders. as an ethnic thing as if because they're not ethnically Jewish they don't want to have anything to do with them. And that really is not the issue. The issue is that these people do not worship the Lord God in the right way. way. They don't even understand who the Lord God truly is. And so that really is the larger issue. Now, who knows why they were really coming? Um there were adversaries. They're described as adversaries in verse 1. And so they come as adversaries. With an offer of friendship. When they're rebuffed, they then petition the king later, after Artaxerxes. Um even even during the days of Cyrus we're told in verse four, they bribed counselors against them to frustrate their purposes. And so but they were waiting because if they of course petitioned Cyrus, king of Persia, about this, he would say, Hey there they're on my royal authority. Don't you dare mess with them. So they wait. They wait for Cyrus, king of Persia, to be gone, as is the way of men, and then in the reign of Ahasuaris, that is Artaxerxes, they they petition the king. King. They petition Artaxerxes, the the uh Persian emperor, and they send this letter, this very carefully crafted, selected History, right? So what can we learn from this chapter? Well, first of all, I think that this is a call for us to know our own history well One of the things that's happening in this current generation with younger people is they're going off to college and they're hearing a very distorted, very one-sided Version of history which paints Christians and Christianity as the evil villains in the history of the world. racist, sexist, oppressive, intolerant. And, as with all lies, they do so with a measure of truth. They talk about their crusades, they talk about the Spanish Inquisition, they talk about the Salem Witch Trials. But all they're getting is this skewed negative perspective. We need to know our own history, and we need to teach our children our own history. So they can have a balanced understanding of what has really happened throughout the history of the church. And so knowing our own history and teaching that history to our Children is key to equipping them against the lies of the world. But the other thing that we're, I think, shown in Ezra 4 is patient Perseverance in hope. When there is opposition, the work of God may be delayed. I mean when the emperor says stop doing it, or else then you stop doing it, right? This there's opposition that sometimes comes, right? But patient persistence in hope sees a delay not as the end, but as just a shift in the Lord's timing. And so this uh this delay holds up the rebuilding of the temple for a time, but it is able to continue. later. So we don't need to give up. We don't need to, you know, despair because there are delays in the work of God. One little thing, and this isn't really enemy opposition but sort of economic realities, is you know, our church in Forest Hill bought a piece of land paid it off relatively quickly. We're excited about the prospects of building. COVID hit, that whole thing, that whole mess, put us off by a year and a half, and then we started designing mining and there was runaway inflation in building the costs and labor costs and the cost to build a building like doubled during that time from when we paid off the land to where we really were getting serious about what kind of building we could build. And you know what's happened with interest rates in the last couple of years. What was a three percent mortgage rate is now like a seven percent mortgage rate. And so, you know, it it It just becomes very expensive. So what what is this this delay, this frustration? Well we don't see it as a hard no and no you're not going to build a building, but rather be patient, persevere in hope. adjust to the current realities of the world that we live in and keep going. And so by God's grace we're closing in on a a design and a contractor and we'll have more details for the church in in in the near future but um things are good things are moving ahead because God in his providence provides for his church. He provides that's what providence is he provides Provides for his church and for his people, and so we need to trust that. That may be a child of yours who may be in a time of unbelief For a time of wandering away from the Lord. Don't give up. Persevere in prayer, in hope. Continue to witness, to speak the truth in love, to show them Christ in your actions. And a delay is not necessarily a denial. In God's providence, we need to trust Him that those things are coming. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your work that is unfailing. Your promises for your people, your provision for our needs are good and always sufficient and unfailing. Failing. Help us to trust you when our timeline gets delayed. Help us to see that it is not a denial, but rather simply an adjustment that we need to make. to the realities of your good providence. And it's good that our plans don't always succeed because sometimes our plans are wrong and we need to be uh we need to be corrected. And so we We pray that you would be our good shepherd, that you would lead us and provide for us. We pray that you would be good to hear us when we pray to you for those things that are close to our hearts and for the good of your people and for the good of your church, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Ezra chapter 4. Have a blessed day in the Lord.