Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill President Presbyterian Church. It's day 625 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we've come to Ezra chapter 5. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for time to spend together as your people looking at your word, thinking about it. reflecting on it, coming to understand it better. But Father, above all of these things, we want to treasure you. We want to walk more closely with our Savior. So we pray that your Holy Spirit would come, soften our hearts, prepare us to receive the Word by faith, to see Jesus more clearly as our Lord, our Savior, our life, and to walk more clearly closely with him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezra chapter five. Now the prophets Haggai and Zechariah, the son of Ido, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel who was over them. Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Josedak arose and began to rebuild the house of God that is in Jerusalem, and the prophets of God were with them, supporting them. At the same time, Tatanai the governor of the province beyond the river and Shethar B uh Bozinai And their associates came to them and spoke to them, What gave you, who gave you, a decree to build this house and to finish this structure? They asked them this. What are the names of the men who are building this building? But the eye of their God was on the elders of the Jews, and they did not stop. until the report should reach Darius, and then an answer be returned by letter concerning it. This is a copy of the letter that Tatanai, the governor of the province beyond the river, and Shiathar Bozennai and his associates, the governors who were in the province beyond the river. They sent him a report in which was written as follows To Darius the King, all peace Be it known to the king that we went to the province of Judah, to the house of the great God. It is being built with huge stones, and timber is laid in the walls. This work goes on diligently and prospers in their hand. Then we asked those elders and spoke to them thus, Who gave you a decree to build this house and to finish this structure? We also asked them their names for your information, that we might write down the names of their leaders. And this was their reply to us. We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, and we are rebuilding the house that was built many years ago, which a great king of Israel built and finished. But because our fathers had angered the God of heaven, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon the Chaldean, who destroyed this house and carried away the people to Babylonia. However, in the first year of Cyrus, king of Babylon, Cyrus the king. made a decree that this house of God should be rebuilt, and the gold and silver vessels of the house of God which Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the temple, temple that was in Jerusalem and brought into the temple of Babylon. These Cyrus the king took out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered to one whose name was Sheshbazar, whom he made governor. And he said to him, Take these vessels, go, and put them in the temple that is in Jerusalem, and let the house of God be rebuilt on its site. Then this Sheshbazar came and laid the foundation of the house of God that is in Jerusalem, and from that time until now it has been in building and is not yet finished. Therefore, if it seems good to the king, let search be made in the Royal Archives there in Babylon, to see whether a decree was issued by Cyrus the King for the rebuilding of this house of God in Jerusalem. And let the king send us his pleasure in this matter. That is Ezra chapter five. So there had been a pause in the activity of building the temple, which we had looked at last time we were in Ezra But after a few years interlude, which is really the the the 520s BC, uh when there was very little activity going on because of the threats of the opposition and because of the then word that came from the then uh ruler of the Persian Empire. So there was a suspension of activity, but some time had passed and the political heat had settled down and there was no immediate pressure being put on them to stop, and yet they just didn't start up again. They just kind of, eh, you know, we'll get around to it when we get around to it. And here come two of the prophets that we have the books of. Haggai and Zechariah, the literary prophets, we call them minor prophets. They're not minor prophets because they were unimportant. They're called minor prophets because their books Are shorter. But Haggai and Zechariah are post-exilic prophets, and they have an interesting place in the history of God's prophets in that they made a very direct call to the people of God. to finish the work of building the temple, and the people of God responded positively to their call and obeyed the voice of the Lord that came through them. And if you know the history of God's people, that is an unusual occurrence. Not exactly a unique occurrence, but it's an unusual occurrence that God would speak through his prophets and the people would listen and the people would say, we should do what the Lord says and then go and do it. It's great, right? It's if if you've been through this Old Testament history with me in in Kings and Chronicles, y you you saw enough times when the prophets came And people were like, Ah, throw him in jail. Ignore him. Who told you you could come in here and talk to us like that? Who who are you and where do you think you come from and where do you get off? You know, that happened again and again. But here, Haggai and Zechariah are blessed by God in such a way that their word is received. And part of it is because of Zerubbabel, who is functioning as the The people's governor. So you have Tatanai, who's the emperor's governor, and Shethar Bozanai, who is also part of this empire. Structure the bureaucracy of of the Persian Empire. But Zerubabal is in the line of the kings of David. He's he's in the house of David. He's in the genealogy of Jesus. the people's governor, and they can't really call him king because, oh boy, that would get them in hot water with the Persians, but he is the civil authority in the eyes of the people of God because he in the line of David. And Hagi, by the way, says some fantastically positive things about uh Zerubbabel and his place in God's uh history. And Jeshua, who's also known as Joshua, who actually has the same name, his name is even closer, we think, to the name of Jesus, Yeshua, and means salvation. And is very similar to Joshua, which basically it's all the same name, Joshua, Joshua, uh, Yeshua, Sal. He's the high priest. And so because you have the three offices working together, that's the point I'm trying to make in this roundabout way. Because you have prophet, priest, and king working together, obeying God. God blesses his people. And the work goes forward in a powerful way. Now there's still opposition. There's still people who are questioning it. They're not threatening necessarily directly and saying, you better stop now or we're gonna kill you. No, it's like what are you guys doing and who told you you could do this and let me get your names and we're gonna report all this to the Emperor The guys building didn't say, oh no, we better stop. They said, well, we're going to keep going until we get some sort of an answer. from uh from Darius. So clearly time has gone by and the nature of Large multicultural empires and their bureaucracies are such that no one remembers clearly the decree of Cyrus among the power structure of the government But there are archives and there are records. And so they send a letter, and it is the report that is given by the leaders of God's people. We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, picking up in verse 11. We are rebuilding the house that was built many years ago, which a great king of Israel built and This would have been some five hundred years prior almost that um Solomon would have built and finished this house. But because our fathers had angered the God of heaven, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon the Chaldean, who destroyed this house and carried away the people. However, in the first year of Cyrus, king of Babylon, Cyrus the king, here he's identified as Cyrus, king of Babylon, and you might know him better as Cyrus, King of Persia, and some people would say, Well, this is a contradiction. No, Babylon was always one of the great cities in the ancient Near East. Present day Iraq was a great and beautiful and glorious city. It continued on for some time until it was finally destroyed, as the Lord had prophesied through Isaiah and other and it was it was never rebuilt again after it was finally destroyed. But as we change from one empire to the next, it remains a principal city. of the Empire. So even under the Assyrians, who were the empire before Babyl the Babylonian Empire, um Babylon was really important. In fact Babylon was an empire of its own small scale before the Assyrians. So you have the Babylonian Empire, the Assyrian Empire, then Nebuchadnezzar's is called the Neo Babylonian Empire. Empire and then you have the Medo Persian Empire, and throughout all these empires, Babylon is a great and important city. in that area. But it still is. And so Cyrus as king of Persia, once he conquers Babylon, he also becomes king of Babylon. You know, he's got Many titles because he rules over a large multicultural kingdom that spreads over, you know, hundreds and hundreds of miles And so he's Cyrus, king of Babylon, and he's the one who issued that decree. And so they said, go and look, you know. We're gonna rebuild while you figure this out. And so they make a search in verse 17 and they find in the Royal Archives that there was a decree, and so that's what's going to come in the next chapter. The gun a little bit. Here they're just asking him to go and make a search. Um, so what do we see in Ezra chapter five that has relevance to us? It's a lot of history of hundreds of years ago, more than a couple It's about the rebuilding of a temple in an ancient city in the context of an ancient empire. What does it have to do with us? It's actually very relevant to our lives because here God's people are functioning as a minority within a large and powerful empire. That is not godly, that is not itself seeking to honor the Lord. It is pagan, it is multicultural, it is multireligious, it has many gods, it spreads over a far area, and it is not Right? It is not a Christian culture. It is a pagan culture. And yet, in the midst of that cultural reality God's people can be faithful to do the work that God has given them to do, especially if their leaders will be faithful to hear the Word of God. and to heed the word of God, to listen to what God says, and to do what God says. And I think that is the takeaway we need to need to have here. So often Christians within America talk as though what we need to do is re-Christianize America. as though America was ever really a Christian nation. It may have been more Christian friendly and it's more Christian hostile now. But We we don't have control over the power structures and and and the powers that be and That's not really our call, right? Jesus said, My kingdom is not of this world. If it were, my followers would fight. We are to honor the governing authorities, even when those governing authorities are not honoring God. Because certainly the governing authority of the Persian Empire was not a God honoring government, but they were honoring the government, and yet in honoring the government, they didn't let that stop them from doing the work that God called them to do. Even when there were threats and pressures to stop doing what God's called you to do, they said, no, we're going to keep doing what God has called us to And yet they worked within the power structures. They said, go and search in the archives and you will see that there was a decree. So for us, there's this tension between we're under a civil governing authority, we need to be obedient to that civil governing authority, yet we need to be faithful to do the work of God. And actually what we see in Ezra five and six is that there doesn't need to be a contradiction between There doesn't need it it it can feel like a tension, but we can live in that tension and it doesn't have to be a contradiction. We can do exactly what God calls us to do which is to fear God and honor the emperor and do the work that he's called us to do as his children Our work is to build the church by preaching the gospel, by making disciples, by proclaiming Jesus Christ and not ourselves. By seeking to hold forth the cross and the salvation that Jesus purchased for the people of God. That's our calling. And we need to be faithful to it, and we can be faithful to it, and God will bless it. Father, thank you for this chapter in your word and for how it challenges us and calls us to faithfulness. Help us to be faithful. Help us to stop making excuses about political and cultural realities and about how hard it is and help us to do the work you've given us to do, to preach your word, to teach your word, to make disciples, beginning in our own households, to disciple our children in the faith. So that they know the Lord who bought them and who is their Lord and God, and that we would see your church built up. Would you be faithful to build your church as your people respond in obedience to your word? This in Jesus' name. Amen. That is Ezra chapter 5. Tomorrow we're going to go right on to chapter 6. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.