Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. It's day number 619, and we've come to Ezra. Ezra, a great, wonderful uh scribe and one of the most important men in biblical history, but also one of the most overlooked. Few people have had a greater influence. on the people of God, and yet few people are so sort of neglected and overlooked as Ezra is. So let's pray and look into this wonderful book together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. for your word which is full of truth. Thank you for the life of Ezra the scribe, for his faithfulness to you and for the impact he's had on your people and on your word and on your word to your people. We pray that you would be our teacher. Today, and that you would help us to know your word and to grow in it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezra wrote, probably Ezra and Nehemiah, these two books. that go together that tell the story of the return from exile. So Chronicles left off with the proclamation of Cyrus. In fact we can just scroll up and find Chronicles here at the V beginning, uh the decree of Cyrus. And then Ezra opens up with in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeroboam Jeremiah might be fulfilled. This is very similar to what came before. And so many people believe that Ezra wrote Chronicles that he is the chronicler as well as the author of Ezra and Nehemiah. If he did, that's a significant chunk of God's word. First and second chronicles, Ezra and Nehemiah, all written or put together by the same God. He's also the leading candidate for who put together the five books of the Psalms and the Hundred Psalms in the way that we have them, the compiler of the Psalter, and probably is an author of many of the Psalms. Psalms that are unnamed and for as far as their author. So he compiled the Psalms and he wrote First and Second Chronicles and Ezra and Nehemiah. That makes him a pretty important guy. And yet most people in the church don't know anything about Ezra, would barely be able to tell you who he is, might be able to say, oh yeah, wasn't that like after the exile with Nehemiah or something like that? Now in Jewish tradition, he's held in much higher regard because he's considered to be sort of one of the most important rabbis, scribes, teachers. of God's word. But in the Christian tradition, especially among evangelical Christians today, Ezra is a much overlooked guy. So here is Ezra chapter In the first year of Cyrus, King of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, King of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom. and also put it in writing. Thus says Cyrus, King of Persia, the Lord, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is Whoever is among you of all his people, may his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and rebuild the house of the Lord, the God of Israel. He is the God who is in Jerusalem. And let each survivor in whatever place he sojourns be assisted by the men of his place with silver and gold, with goods and with beasts, besides free will offerings for the house of God. that is in Jerusalem. Then rose up the heads of the fathers' houses of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests and the Levites, every one whose spirit God had stirred to go up. to rebuild the house of the Lord that is in Jerusalem, and all who were about them aided them with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, with beasts, and with costly wares, besides all that was freely offered. Cyrus the king also brought out the vessels of the house of the Lord that Nebuchadnezzar had carried away from Jerusalem and placed in the house of his gods. Cyrus, king of Persia, brought these out in the charge of Mithridoth. the treasurer who counted them out to Sheshbazar the prince of Judah. And this was the number of them. Thirty basins of gold, one thousand basins of silver, twenty-nine Censors thirty bowls of gold, four hundred and ten bowls of silver, and one thousand other vessels. All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand four hundred. All these did Shesh Bazar bring up When the exiles were brought up from Babylonia to Jerusalem. So a short little chapter here to introduce us to the book of Ezra, but a very important one. It's very important because we get a little bit of an extended version of the decree of Cyrus. Like I said, it ended. the Book of Chronicles, but in the Book of Chronicles it was just one verse and it was really just the first part of this decree. Now it we get an expanded version and that is that Cyrus not only gives permission for people to go up, but he actually calls on the survivors from Jerusalem and Judah to go and to be assisted. uh with silver and gold and goods and beasts and free will offerings for the house of God. So there is a call for there to be not only permission to go. But really encouragement, strong encouragement to go, and then assistance in going. And that's exactly what happens. the priests and the Levites. So these are the leaders, these are the the chiefs, the leading men, the elders, the priests, the Levites, those who were going to rebuild and be in charge. They are all sent back. back. And when they're sent back, they're sent back with the vessels of silver and gold that were taken out of the temple treasury. Nebuchadnezzar had taken these things out of the temple treasury when he came through on separate occasions. He took some of it first and then he took all of it of it uh when he came in five eighty six and remember that Nebuchadnezzar's uh grandson Belshazzar uh used uh these things in his final feasting night before the Persians broke through the Medes and the Persians broke through and captured Babylon and resubdued Babylon to outside uh d uh dominion. He was using them that night when the handwriting appeared on the wall. Remember that from the book of Daniel? And so they are they are And there's a lot of them. All the things that were used in the service of the house of the Lord. Thirty basins of gold. Now a basin of gold would be very large. A bowl of gold would be small. So 30 basins of gold, 30 bowls of gold. A thousand basins of silver, four hundred and ten bowls of silver. 29 sensors, those are for lighting incense and burning incense, and uh a thousand other vessels. All total, all of these gold and silver vessels were five thousand 400. And they're given freely by uh Sheshbazar, who is the treasurer of the Persian Empire. He gives them freely This is an unusual thing because the Persian Empire wasn't just some charitable organization that just goes around handing out gold and silver. They were the greatest conquering empire that the world had ever known to that time. You know, the Assyrians were outdone by the Babylonians, the Babylonians were outdone by the Persians, the Persians are going to be outdone by the Greeks, and then the Greeks are going to be outdone The Romans and after that no one's gonna outdo the Romans uh pretty much ever since then. But this it this is the greatest empire the world's ever seen at that time. And they're used to plundering. They're used to taking. But now they're giving back. And because God can move the hearts of even pagans to do his will. Remember when Pharaoh Nico met Josiah and said to him God told me not to fight you, so don't fight me. I'm just going on my way. There, Pharaoh Nika was speaking the words of God. Through the prophet Isaiah. A hundred and fifty years before Cyrus issues this decree, through the prophet Isaiah, word was given that Cyrus was going to issue this decree, and that he was going to be God's special chosen instrument to bless and restore. God's people and God did it. God gave a very unlikely prophecy about someone who was not even born and would not be born for a hundred plus more years of a kingdom that wasn't even the great kingdom on the scene and God sent his word and God fulfilled his word because God's word will always be fulfilled. I hope that's one thing you've learned from six hundred and nineteen days we've spent in God's word and we have hundreds more ahead of us. But God's word will always come true. It will always be fulfilled. It will always be upheld. God's will will never fail. God's purposes will never be front. We may experience trial, we may experience turmoil, we may experience distress and doubt and hardship, but God's purpose is God's will. God's word stands through all of it. And that's what we're seeing here in Ezra chapter one. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, how great you are. There is no king who can even compare to you in greatness of power, for you rule over all heaven and earth. Help us to trust you. We we get so anxious because we see so little We don't understand what we even do see. We don't see your hand at work in a very evident and obvious way, and so we get filled with anxiety and overwhelmed with fear and doubt. So fill us with that confidence and let us walk in the joy of knowing you. We pray this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thanks for joining me for Ezra chapter one. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord