Good morning, good morning, good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We've been in God's Word for 632 days now. And today is a day when I am not feeling great. So feeling sort of out of it. Tired and headachey and uh uh a little congested. I've got coffee, I've got medicine. Uh we're praying, we're asking the Lord's help as we continue plowing. Ahead in God's Word by God's grace. It's a wonderful gift. Yesterday we saw Ezra's prayer as he prayed in repentance for the people's sin. of intermarrying with unbelievers and risking reintroducing idolatry to the nation of Israel. And so now, as we've seen as we're praying, today we're going to see how the people can confess their sin and respond in obedience in true repentance to the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, bless us as we look at Ezra 10. today. Lead us by your spirit to know your word and to know you better through your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, as we're Chapter ten While Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and casting himself down before the house of God, a very great assembly of men, women, and children And children gathered to him out of Israel, for the people wept bitterly. And Shechaniah, the son of Jehael, of the sons of Of Elam addressed Ezra, we have broken faith with our God, and have married foreign women from the peoples of the land. But even now there is hope for Elam Israel in spite of this. Therefore let us make a covenant with our God to put away all these wives and their children according to the counsel of my Lord, and of those who tremble at the commandment of God and let it be done according to the law. Arise, for it is your task, and we are with you. Be strong and do it. Then Ezra arose and made the leading priests and Levites and all Israel take an oath that they would do as had been said. So they took an oath Then Ezra withdrew from before the house of God and went to the chamber of Jeho Jeho Jehoen Jehoenan the son of Elisheb, where he spent the night, neither eating bread nor drinking water, for he was mourning over the faithlessness of the exile. And a proclamation was made throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the returned exiles that they should assemble at Jerusalem and that if any one did not come within three days by order of the officials and the elders, all his property should be forfeited, and he himself banned from the congregation of the exiles. Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin assembled at Jerusalem within the three days. It was the ninth month, on the twelfth day of the month, and all the people sat in the open square before the house of And Ezra the priest stood up and said to them, You have broken faith. And married foreign women, and so increased the guilt of Israel. Now then make confession to the Lord, the God of your fathers. and do his will. Separate yourselves from the peoples of the land and from your foreign wives. Then all the assembly answered with a loud voice, It is so, we must do as you have said. But the people are many, and it is a time of heavy rain. We cannot stand in the open, nor is this a task for one day or for two, for we have greatly transgressed in this matter Let our officials stand for the whole assembly. Let all then our cities who have taken foreign wives come at appointed times and with them the elders and judges of every city, until the fierce wrath of our God over this matter is turned away from us. Only Jonathan, the son of Asahel, And Jazeah, the son of Pikvah, opposed this. And Meshulem and Shabbatai, the Levites, supported them. Then the returned exiles did so. As for the priests, selected men, heads of fathers' houses, according to their fathers' houses, each of them designated by name On the first day of the tenth month, they sat down to examine the matter, and on the first day of the first month they had come to the end of all the men who had married foreign women Now there were found some of the sons of the priests who had married foreign women. Maasea, Eliezer, Jerob. Gedaliah, some of the sons of Jeshua, the son of Josedak and his brothers. They pledged themselves to put away their wives, and their guilt offering was a ram of the flock for their guilt. Of the sons of Imr, Hananai, and Zebediah, of the sons of Harem, Maesiah, Elijah, Shemea, Jehiel, and Uzziah of the sons of Pasher, Elionai, Maesia, Ishmael, Nathanael, Josebad, and Elisabeth of the Levites, Josebad, Shimei, Keliah, that is Kilitah, Pathahiah, Judah, and Eliezer. of the singers Eliashim, of the gatekeepers Shalem, Telem, and Uri. And of Israel the sons of Perosh, Ramiah, Isaiah, Malkaijah, Midemun, Eliezer, Hashabiah, and Benea, of the sons of Elam, Mataniah, Zechariah Jehael, Abdi, Jeremoth, and Elijah, of the sons of Zatu, Elioni, Eliashib, Mataniah, Jeremoth, Zabad, and Aziza. Of the sons of Bebai were Jo this guy again, Jehohanon You have too many H's and N's in his name. I mean, come on. Why not just be Jehoinan? Jeho Jehohanan. Hananiah, Zabai, and Ark Athlai. Of the sons of Bani were Meshulem, Malek, Adaiah, Jashem, Sheol, and Jeremoth. Of the sons of Pehat Moab, Agna, Kilal, Benea, Maesiah, Mataniah, Bezalel, Benui, and Manasseh Of the sons of Haran, Eliezer, Eshijah, Malchijah, Shemea, Shimeon, Benjamin, Malek, and Sheremiah, Shemariah, rather, Shemariah, of the sons of Hashem, Mataniah, Matata Zabad, Eliphalet, Jeremiah, Manasseh, and Shimei of the sons of Bani, Maadi, Amram, Yule, Beneah, Bedea Chaluhi, Vinaya, Merrimaath, Eliashib, Mataniya, Matanai, Jaasu of the sons of Benui, Shimei, Shelimiah, Nathan, Edeah, Machnadibai Shashai, Shari, Azarel, Shelemiah, Shemariah, Shalem, Amoriah, and Joseph of the sons of Nebo, Jal, Matithiah, Zabad, Zabina, Jedi Joel, Menea, all these had married foreign women, and some of the women had even borne children That is Ezra chapter ten. So a full accounting is made. You know, all those names, as challenging as they are to read, because their names aren't You know, Tom, John, Joe, Frank, and Bob. Um of course maybe they'd think of that our names are hard to read, but anyway. Um Are there to give us a record of the fact that God knew who these people were, and these people had the courage to confess, to repent, to be publicly exposed, and to take the steps that they needed to take. to make things right. This is what repentance is. Repentance is not feeling sorry for your sin and wishing that you could get away from the consequences of it. That is not. Repentance. As my mom used to say to me sometimes when I got in trouble and I was a kid, I would say, Oh, I'm so sorry. And she would say, I don't think you're really sorry. I think you're just sorry that you got Caught. And she was right. There were many times when I wasn't really sorry for what I had done. I was sorry that now suffering consequences for having been found out for what I had done. You see, repentance comes to a place where you hate your sin because it is sin against God, and you don't want to do it anymore. And you wish you had never done it, even if you had not been caught. So you have to honestly say, like, even if I had gotten away with this Even if I had not been caught, I am sorry that I did this because it is wrong. It is vile and offensive in the eyes of the people Slandering, to say it is evil in the eyes of the Lord. It is contrary to the image of God that I've been redeeming. And restored to. It is hurtful to me and to others who are made in God's image. It is it is wrong. And even if I never got caught, I hate it. And I wish to forsake it and I don't want to have anything to do with it. And that's really what these people need to come to and that's why it wasn't excuse me it wasn't a simple thing for them. Right? They're standing out here in the rain and they're they're being poured on and they have to realize This isn't going to be solved in a day or an hour. This is going to take time. We're going to have to teach the law to all the villages and towns. We're going to have to call people out. They're going to have to repent. And the fruit of repentance, as John the Baptist said to those who came to him, bear fruit in keeping with repentance. The fruit of repentance is that you put away any benefits you got from your sin. You know, if you were a bank robber and you went on a bank robbing spree and you robbed ten banks and you did got away with it, if you came to a point where you said, I am so sorry, I need to repent, I this was wrong. This was evil, then two things need to happen. One, you need to take responsibility and be willing to suffer the civil penalty. Right? And two, you have to be willing to give up the fruits. You know, if if you got a million dollars and you stashed it away somewhere You can't say, Oh, I'm so sorry, I'm willing to pay my debt to society, but I'm not going to tell you where the money is or give it back because, you know, I'm hoping to hold on to that for later. That's That's not repentance. And that's kind of an extreme example, but we can all think of ways in our own lives where we think, I want to be able to sin and get the benefit of the sin and then later say that I'm sorry for the sin while I'm still holding on to the benefits that that sin brought to me. And that is is wrong. And so here, putting away the wives and the children, providing for them, but having them live separately, that was what they were Verse three. Therefore let us make a covenant with your God to put away these wives and their children according to the counsel of my Lord, because they needed to give up on the benefit that they had gained from their sin, so they wouldn't be tempted to remain in it any longer. Now we need to be careful in seeking to apply this principle in the New Testament age. We always have to make sure that we are Reading the Old Testament through a New Testament lens. Never read the Old Testament as though the New Testament had not been written. And if there's a subject that's addressed clearly in the Old Testament, you need to see how God has addressed it. that in the New Testament as well, so that you can see the progress of Revelation and the change from Old Covenant to New Covenant. And this is one good example. of that because one way that people might say is, oh, I married an unbeliever and my life is now miserable. As we talked about yesterday. I married an unbeliever, now my life is so miserable, so I need to get rid of my unbelieving spouse and just start over again. And that is not the answer. And to see that clearly, let's go to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. In 1 Corinthians chapter 7, the Apostle Paul directly addresses A believer who's married to an unbeliever. Verse 12. To the rest I say, I not the Lord, that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, let me just explain this. The Lord Jesus Christ himself during his earthly ministry never spoke directly to this issue, whereas he had talked about marriage in other issues. So here the Apostle Paul as an apostle, as a spirit-filled apostle, writing of the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is giving his instruction. So to the rest I say that if any brother who has a wife who is an unbeliever And she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her. If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever, and he consents to live with her, she We should not divorce him. For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean. But as it is They are holy. But if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases, the brother or sister is not enslaved. God has called you to peace. For how do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband, or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife? So here there is the hope that's held out that if you are a faithful Christian spouse House married to an unbeliever that your witness might be used of God to save them. So this is the New Testament advice for this particular sin issue if you've already committed this sin. and are in this marriage, stay in it. Stay with it. Pray for them. Your prayers have effect And you may be used by God to save your husband or save your wife. So stay in that marriage. But the broader principle of repentance is here. And that is, if you're truly going to repent of your sin, you need to take it seriously. It's not a passing I'm sorry. It is, I take responsibility for this, I'm going to make it right. I'm going to do everything I can to repent and to make restitution. And that's why this process took so long. Um and they even needed to write down the names that we're still able to look at here twenty five hundred years later because these people had taken full responsibility and so this shouldn't be a list of shame necessarily because we're all sinners but these are the lists of the people who they took responsibility for what they had done wrong they confessed it and they made it right And so these are the forgiven and the restored in this long list. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for your word. It confronts us. It challenges us. It calls us to true repentance and faith. And that's uncomfortable for us at times. Father, would you lead us by your Holy Spirit to do your will? to walk in your word. Help us to repent of our sin. Help us to make restitution, to make things right. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Ezra 9 and 10 over these two days. Tomorrow, Lord willing, we'll be back in the Gospel of Luke. For Luke chapter three, have a blessed day in the Lord