Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 626. We are in the Book of Ezra. We have come to Ezra chapter 6, and we are going to hear the reply. I kind of set this up already yesterday and kind of stole some of my own thunder for the next day, but um we're gonna see how God responds uh as he sovereignly moves the hearts of kings and kings kingdoms for the good of his people and for the glory of his name. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for, as were chapter six, thank you for this wonderful history. of your people that you've recorded for us for our encouragement and for our blessing and for our greater faithfulness. Help us to respond to your word today in obedience as we pray this in Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. Ezra chapter six. Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in Babylonia, in the house of the ark Where the documents were stored, and in Ekbatana, the citadel that is in the province of Media, a scroll was found on which this was written. Written. A record. In the first year of Cyrus the King, Cyrus the King issued a decree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem. Let the house be rebuilt the place where sacrifices were offered, and let its foundations be retained, its height shall be sixty cubits, and its breadth sixty cubits. with three layers of great stones and one layer of timber, let the cost be paid from the royal treasury, and also let the gold and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that is in Jerusalem and brought to Babylon be restored, and brought back to the temple that is in Jerusalem, each to its place, you shall put them in the house of God. Now therefore, Tatanai the governor of the province beyond the river, Shethar Bozanai, I can't stumble on that guy's name. Not exactly John, is it? Shethar Bozanai and your associates, the governors who are in the province beyond the river, keep away. Let the work of the house of God be Alone. Let the work on this house of God alone. Let the governor of the Jews and the elder of the Jews rebuild this house of God on its site. Moreover, I make a decree regarding what you shall do for these elders of the Jews for the rebuilding of this house of God. The cost is to be paid to these men in full and without delay from the royal revenue, the tribute of the province from beyond the river. And whatever is needed, bulls, rams, or sheep, for burnt offerings to the God of heaven, wheat, salt, wine, or oil, as the priests at Jerusalem require, let that be given to them day by day, without fail, that they may offer pleasing sacrifices to the God of heaven and pray for the life of the king and his sons. Also I make a decree that if any one alters this edict, a beam shall be pulled out of his house, and he shall be impaled on it, and his house shall be made a dumb May the God who has caused his name to dwell there overthrow any king or people who shall put out a hand to alter this, or to destroy this house of God that is in Jerusalem. I, Darius, make a decree, let it be done with all diligence. Thus, according to the word sent by Darius the King, Tatanai the governor of the province beyond the river, Shethar Bozanai and their associates Did all this with all diligence what Farius the king had ordered. And the elders of the Jews built and prospered through the prophesying of Hagai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Ida. So they finished their building by decree of the God of Israel and by decree of Cyrus and Darius and Artaxerxes. King of Persia. And this house was finished on the third month, sorry, on the third day of the month of Adar, in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the King. And the people of Israel, the priests and the Levites, and the rest of the returned exiles, celebrated the dedication of this house of God with joy. They offered, at the dedication of this house of God, one hundred bulls, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs, and as a sin offering for all Israel twelve male goats. according to the number of the tribes of Israel. And they set the priests in their divisions, and the Levites in their divisions, for the service of God at Jerusalem, as is written in the book of Moses On the 14th day of the first month, the returned exiles kept the Passover for the priests and the Levites had purified themselves together. All of them were clean. So they slaughtered the Passover Lamb for all the returned exiles, for their fellow priests, and for themselves. It was eaten by the people of Israel who had returned from exile. And also by everyone who had joined them and separated himself from the uncleanness of the peoples of the land to worship the Lord the God of Israel. And they kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy, for the Lord had made them joyful, and had turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them, so that he aided them in the work of the house of God, the God. of Israel. Some good coffee. It's good coffee, and yes I do have a prescription for it. This is my official from Dr. Joe Black. for this coffee. All right, Ezra chapter six is the answer. to the people responding to the Word of God with faithfulness. You know, when when they had quit building the temple, it had been under direct threat. The governors of the Aries at that time had threatened them. They had sent word to the Persian emperor and the Persian king and they had they had asked for a different record search. They said if you go and you search through the records, you'll find that this city, Jerusalem, used to be very powerful, used to control this whole part of the world. And many times rebelled against the kings of your area that tried to impose tribute on them. Oftentimes they would rebel. And so they've been a source of rebellion and sedition. And yes, there is that aspect of the history. So that king found that aspect of the history. But there's another aspect of the history, and that is probably largely owing to the faithfulness of people like Daniel, who had early in earlier uh generation served so faithfully uh within the courts of the kings, there was a kindly disposition from some of the rulers toward uh uh Jerusalem and toward the Jewish people. And S Cyrus the king had issued this decree and it was written down. Now what was interesting is it wasn't written down where they would have kind of expected it to be. So there is the king, he makes a decree, and they make a search in Babylonia, in Babylon, in the Babylonian area. But they don't find the decree there. They find the decree in Ekbatana. which is a citadel in the province of Media, which is a different area, and it's the the location of a summer palace of the Persian king And that's where Cyrus may have been when he issued this decree, and that's where Cyrus may have um may have been, you know. staying when when his heart was moved to issue this. But the decree itself is very clear and very strong. And Darius could have ignored it. Darius could have said, well that was a previous king. But there's something about it. Cyrus was held in great honor and great respect. And the way that he wrote this, the way that he wrote it so strongly Making this kind of contribution, making this kind of restoration, even funding the project, Darius says this is important. This is something that we need to be supporting. And so he writes back and he not only says Let them do the work. He not only says, let the work alone, let the governor rebuild his house, he says, moreover. Verse 8, he says, moreover. I make a decree regarding what you shall do for them. So far and away from, yeah, they'd better stop and you go ahead and put a stop to this nonsense now, he says you leave them alone. And you let 'em build, and moreover, I make a decree about what you're going to do for them. The tribute that you collect as royal governors that you would send back to me, I want it to be used to pay the expense. Pay these men in full and without delay. Take my tribute and pay it to these men. Why would he do that? Well, we're given the reason in verse 10. That they may offer pleasing sacrifices to the God of heaven and pray for the life of the king and his sons. One of the things about these polytheistic emperors is that if they believed in these many gods of these many lands, they didn't want to anger any of them. They wanted to appease all of them. And given how Cyrus issued this very strange decree Darius becomes convinced that this God of heaven is very powerful and a king in heaven, a God of heaven, whose favor he as the king of Persia wants to seek. And so he makes this decree and he By the way, some of you at this point might be thinking, come on, Pastor Jason, we all know why this Darius feared the Lord and wanted to honor him because Darius saved Daniel out of the den of lions, and he's right there in the book of Daniel. And why did you make reference to Daniel serving in previous administrations when this is King Darius? Well, this isn't the same King Darius. So um there's a lot of history and and uh uh lineage here going, but Ezra Ezra Nehemiah time period is after the book of Daniel. So the King Darius in the book of Daniel in the Lion's Den episode A guy known as Darius the Mead, and he does not he is not the the chief ruler over the kingdom. He is the the Mead, Darius the Mead, he rules over the media median part of the Medo-Persian Empire. And he's 538 to 536 BC. This Darius is known as King Darius I of the Persian Empire, and he is 522 to about 518. So this is the the temple actually gets finished by five seventeen. Um and so that lets it be seventy years without a temple from five eighty seven when Nebuchadnezzar So this is this is a later Darius. To make things more confusing, later on down the line, there's going to be a King Darius II, who's different from this King Darius I, who's different from Darius the Mead, who doesn't even get regarded as a king Darius because he's over the median part anyway. Bottom line, this ain't the same Darius as in the book of Daniel, so don't think I just don't remember Darius from Daniel. This is a different guy. I but I do think the legacy of Daniel has helped to shape the influence of the court because Cyrus the King and his decree, that Cyrus came right after the Darius the Meat And his decree that he issues, I do think, is influenced by the reputation that Daniel has and the reputation that the Jewish people have within uh the Persian Empire. You also have Esther and her service uh to the king of Persia, which is going on closer to around this time So there's reason why the rulers have had a favorable disposition toward God's people, even though God's people have also been violently opposed, which we can see in the story of Daniel and the Lion's Day. And also in the book of Esther, we see violent opposition against the people of God, but we also see because of the faithfulness of God's people. we see royal favor toward the people of God. So with this royal favor, right, the temple is finished and it is dedicated and And after it is finished and dedicated, Ezra here highlights the fact that they keep the Passover. This element is one of the things that leads Bible scholars to believe that the chronicler is most likely Ezra, or at the very least that whoever wrote 1 and 2 Chronicles also wrote Ezra and Nehemiah. Because there's a strong emphasis in 2 Chronicles and in Ezra on the importance, the central importance of keeping Passover and how that is a sign Of God's favor and God's blessing being upon the people. So Hezekiah kept a Passover, Josiah kept an even better Passover. And now they keep what looks to be an even better Passover because here the priests and the Levites have purified themselves. It is on the proper day, the fourteenth day of the first month, and everybody's clean, everybody's ready. You know, they've been instructed in the law, the temple has been fully rebuilt, and so they have joy and they have faith. And so this is the culminating uh event in the rebuilding of the temple is the celebration of Passover. So what do we get out of Ezra chapter 6? Well, one big thing that we get out of Ezra chapter 6 is that the Lord is the sovereign Lord. Over the kingdoms of men. Even when those kingdoms are not Christian kingdoms and do not explicitly recognize God as the one true God Still, God is sovereign over the kingdoms of men. And God knows how to bless and protect and prosper his people. when his people are faithful to obey his word. Now that doesn't mean we won't suffer. This is not a version of prosperity gospel theology. Here, but if God's people are faithful to obey the word of God given to us through the scriptures and through pastors who preach faithfully and And elders who lead and shepherd well, we take to heart the Word of God and we say, Yes, I believe, I trust, and I will obey out of faith. God knows how to bless and how to protect and how to prosper. We may suffer, we may continue to be an outcast minority, we may be a small light. But a city on a hill we will be, and salt and light we will be, because that's what we are called to be, and the Lord is sovereign. overall. And the second thing we need to see is within the lives of God's people, the central importance for us must be on The church, the worship of God, the Passover, which is the Passover lamb, which is Jesus Christ. So for God's people, when they were resettling in the land, and if you you have to read Haggai and Zechariah We'll get there in due time in our reading. But this is the message that comes out that they're responding to is wait a minute, you're taking care of your own home. You live in paneled houses. cedar paneled houses. You live in security. You've rebuilt your your your cities and your walls and your towers. You've planted your crops and you've harvested and you've Eaten for satisfaction. You've been back in the land for decades by this point. Why is the house of God in ruins? And so they rebuild because they have realized, finally they've realized The temple of God, the worship of God, and the keeping of the Passover need to be central to the life of God's people. And the way that translates to us today is that the Church of Jesus Christ and Lord's Day worship. And Jesus Christ and His cross, and I would even say the Lord's Supper, which is the New Testament expression of Passover. Passover is the Lord's Supper. These things need to be central to our lives as believers. If we are Christians, if we are children of God If we are ambassadors for Christ, if we are salt and light in the midst of this land, then the Church of Jesus Christ The worship of God, the proclamation of the gospel, the cross of Jesus Christ, and the Lord's Supper, the Lord's table. need to be central to our lives. Which means whatever else we're doing in our week, we need to make sure that we get to church on Sunday morning. Whatever else we invest in or spend money on, we need to make sure we tithe to the church and to the work of God. Whatever else we prioritize listening to or watching, we need to hear the Word of God preached. We need to put our hope in Jesus Christ and Him crucified We need to make sure that's what we're holding out to the world, our hope in Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And we need to especially be committed to being around the Lord's table and sharing in the Lord's Supper together with God's people. Maybe we need to adjust our travel schedule and our weekend vacations and things to make sure I don't really want to miss a Lord's Day with my church, and I especially don't want to miss a Lord's Day when we're having the Lord's Sunday. I don't want to miss the worship of God. If I do have to be away, I'm going to find a local body of believers. I'm going to go worship there on the Lord's Day Or if I'm sick and I have to stay home, then I will do whatever I can to join the people of God in worship. But if I can be in church, I'm gonna be in church. I'm not gonna let sports or family gatherings or whatever keep me from what is most centrally important because that is I think a very good application from what we see Here in Ezra chapter 6. And when they do that, there's joy. There's joy, and there is the blessing of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us to treasure your church, even as you have treasured it, even at the life of your son. You valued your church enough That you gave your one and only son for her, for your bride. I pray that we would value your church. Help us to worship you in spirit and in truth, with sacrifice. and with joy. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well that's Ezra chapter six. Tomorrow, where are we going? Back to Luke? Nope, not back to Luke. We're going to go to the Psalms. Psalms ninety two and ninety-three. I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day. In the Lord