Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day number 631 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We are in Ezra chapter 9 as we are coming close to the end of Ezra, and then we'll turn over to Nehemiah, I guess, after we're done with this. Anyway, I hope you're doing well today. I'm feeling not great, but the Lord gives grace and sustains, and I've got my coffee. And so here we go. We're going to go into Ezra chapter 9, but first we're going to ask the Lord's help as we do so. Father in heaven, thank you for your love for us. Thank you for this time that we can be Please write your word on our hearts. Please lead us by your Spirit into all truth, that we might love you, for you are lovely, and you are the source of all love. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Ezra chapter 9. After these things had been done, the officials approached me and said Said, the people of Israel and the priests and the Levites have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands with their abominations, from the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebuzites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites For they have taken some of their daughters to be wives for themselves and for their sons, so that the holy race has mixed itself with the peoples of the lands. And in this faithlessness, the hand of the officials and chief men has been foremost. As soon as I heard this, I tore my garment and my cloak. And pulled my hair from my head and beard and sat appalled. of the returned exiles gathered around me. While I sat appalled until the evening sacrifice And at the evening sacrifice I rose from my fasting with my garment and my cloak torn, and fell upon my knees and spread out my hands to the Lord my God, saying, O my God, I am ashamed And blush to lift my face to you, my God. For our iniquities have risen higher than our heads, and our guilt has melted up to the heavens From the days of our fathers to this day, we have been in great guilt. And for our iniquities, we, our kings and our priests, have been guilty given into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plundering, and to utter shame, as it is to this day. But now, for a brief moment, favor has been shown by the Lord our God to leave us a remnant. and give us a secure hold within his holy place, that our God may brighten our eyes and grant us a little reviving in our slavery For we are slaves. Yet our God has not forsaken us in our slavery, but has extended to us his steadfast love before the kings of Persia. to grant us some reviving, to set up the house of our God, to repair its ruins, and to give us protection in Judea and Jerusalem. And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken your commandments, which you commanded by your servants the prophets, Prophets, saying, The land that you are entering to take possession of it is a land impure with the impurity of the peoples of the lands. With their abominations that have filled it from end to end, with their uncleanness. Therefore, do not give your daughters to their sons, neither take their daughters for your sons and never seek their peace or prosperity, that you may be strong and eat the good of the land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children forever. After all that has ha come upon us, for all our evil deeds and for our great guilt, seeing that you, our God have punished us less than our iniquities deserved, and have given us such a remnant as this, shall we break your commandments again, and intermarry with the peoples who practice these abominations? Would you not be angry with us until you consumed us, so that there should be no remnant nor any to escape? O Lord the God of Israel, you are just. For we are left a remnant that has escaped, as it is today. Behold, we are before you in our guilt, for none can stand before you. because of this. So Ezra nine and ten, which will be will be in chapter ten tomorrow and we're going to deal with all of this, which is the the solution that the people Ezra nine and ten ends the book of Ezra on this two-chapter account of this problem of intermarriage. And some people have misunderstood this problem of intermarriage and have said that it's primarily sort of a nationalistic thing with Israel and about racial and ethnic. ethnic purity, and some people have even said that the Jewish leadership and the priests and Levites were wrong to think that this was sinful and to try They weren't forsaking the Lord to worship the local gods. They had only Intermarried with women from the surrounding areas. And so, one, just to call out someone who has a terrible video on this, the Bible Project um which has become very, very unreliable as a source of information about the Bible. The Bible project video on Ezra Nehemiah is horrible. uh because it exactly gets this wrong and says what I just said, that there was this attempt at ethnic and racial purity and that it was not right and especially when they get into chapter ten They say the the dealing with these uh Gentile women is harsh and unloving and unkind, and it's just wrong. It's wrongheaded altogether. Marrying someone who is not a believer is consistently seen throughout Scripture as a source for faithlessness and idolatry that leads the people astray and that is the issue. The issue is that these women from these surrounding areas They have their own gods. And so the officials approach Ezra and say, the people of Israel and the priests and the Levites Have not separated themselves from the peoples of the land with their abominations from the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites. the Jepzites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites. But we know, for example, the Moabites, Ruth was a Moabites, and she married into Israel and it was greatly blessed of God as she became the great-grandmother of King David because she had left behind the Moabite gods. And she had clung to Yahweh, the Lord, the God of Israel, only. And so this is not really an issue of racial purity Or ethnic purity, or nationalistic pride. It's just not. It is an issue. That by marrying these women, by marrying Canaanite, Hittite, Perizzite, Jebuzite, Ammonite, Moabite, Egyptian, and Amorite women, you're risking bringing those gods in and then falling into these poly Theistic pagan pattern and forsaking the Lord. And it had happened so many times throughout Israel's history, it really was horrible. During the Exodus wandering. As they were in the wilderness. And Balak called for Balaam to come and curse the people. They weren't able, he wasn't able to curse the people because the Lord wouldn't curse Israel. But they sent out women who enticed the men. into cult prostitution and that was sexual immorality and idolatry and it was terrible. Solomon, David's son, led Israel astray because he married many Foreign wives, and brought many idols into Israel. And Jezebel was this horribly wicked I mean there's just so many stories, one after another, of how this is just a terrible, terrible idea. So Ezra is absolutely right. when he heard these things. He's absolutely right to have to have torn his clothing and fallen on his knees and spread out his hand before the Lord and to pray in this way. He is right. And in the next chapter that we'll look at tomorrow, they are right to take this very seriously and to deal with this. in a relentlessly focused way that seems very harsh to us, but it is absolutely vitally important. Now, what do we do with this? Well The most direct application for us as believers in the New Testament age is that we are not to marry unbelievers. You're in a very bad place spiritually if you enter into a relationship with an unbeliever. And you fall in love with them. Shouldn't even be going down that road. Should just be a non-starter, a non-issue. Oh, you don't believe in Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior? I'm sorry. You may be interesting and funny and whatever, but I'm not going to enter into a relationship with you. Just be a non-starter. But so many people have entered into relationships with unbelievers. And then they've realized after they got married, especially started having children, and they're wanting to bring their children up in the Lord because they come to a place of repentance. and realize they were wandering far from God and now they want to be faithful to God. Well now they're married to somebody who's not a believer. Now we'll talk about this more tomorrow. I'm saying that The Apostle Paul gives us different instructions as how to handle that and we should stay in that marriage as long as the unbeliever wants to stay married and you can continue to To be married and and to raise your children, but it causes so much heartache and so much conflict if the two parents are trying to lead their children in completely different directions. And I've seen it. Uh I've seen it up close and it causes a lot of tension, a lot of stress, a lot of anxiety because it is sin. And sin always leads to sorrow. But here we have an even stronger case where Israel is a theocracy. They are a theocratic nation. state. They are called to be holy to the Lord. They're they've been punished again and again for their faithlessness and for their idolatry. to the point where now they're slaves, as verse nine says, for we are slaves, yet our God has not forsaken us in our slavery. So how could they have sunk this low and then go out and do the very things that brought them? them to this low condition and threatened to bring them even lower. And so a broader application, the most narrow application, is if you're a believer, don't even think about marrying an unbeliever, just don't even enter into that relationship. You need to look for and pray for someone who will be a spiritual partner in the Lord and who will help you grow in your faith. So that's the narrow application. The broader application is that sin always leads to sorrow and that over time sin enslaves even God's people into patterns of futility and fruitlessness. And as soon as we see our sin, we need to repent Repent of it, we need to confess it, we need to turn away from it. We need to be as earnest as Ezra is here, and tearing his clothes and falling on his face. us and we should say we don't want to forsake your commandments. We want to do what you've told us to do. Please help us to be faithful. We should want to be God's pure, holy, and faithful people. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that your word is truth. Your commandments are for our good. You love us, and you guide us in the way that is right so that we can walk in it. The path of holiness, the path of of your word. Help us to take sin seriously. Help us to repent earnestly. Help us to seek you in sincere Faith and with a deep longing for obedience. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. That's Ezra chapter 9. Tomorrow, Lord willing, we'll go on to Ezra chapter 10. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.