Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Day 628 of our three-year journey brings us back to the book of Ezra. Ezra chapter 7, and we are uh we're gonna have a very unusual occurrence in this chapter. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help and then we'll see what that unusual occurrence is. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the privilege of these times when we can gather together through the use of this technology and we can study your word. We can reflect on your word, meditate on your word, grow in your word. But we want to grow in our love for you. We want to grow in our faith in you. We want to see you More clearly by faith and trust you more deeply and walk with you more obediently. So, Father, do the work in our hearts that your Holy Spirit alone can do. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Ezra Chapter seven Now after this, in the reign of Artaxerxes, king of Persia Ezra, the son of Sariah, son of Azariah, son of Hilkiah, son of Shalium, Shalim, son of Zadok, son of Ahitub, son of Amariah son of Azariah, son of Merioth, son of Zarahiah, son of Uzi, son of Buki, son of Avashua, son of Phineas Son of Eliezer, son of Aaron, the chief priest, this Ezra went up from Babylon. He was a scribe. skilled in the law of Moses, that the Lord, the God of Israel, had given. And the king granted him all that he wished, for the hand of the Lord his God was on him And there went up also to Jerusalem in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king some of the people of Israel. and some of the priests and Levites, the singers and gatekeepers, and the temple servants. And Ezra came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king For on the first day of the first month he began to go up from Babylonia, and on the first day of the fifth month he came to Jerusalem, for the good hand of his God was On him. For Ezra had set his heart to study the law of the Lord, and to do it, and to teach his statutes and rules in Israel. This is a copy of the letter that King Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, a man learned in matters of the commanders of the commandments of the Lord and his statutes. For Israel. Arta Xerxes, King of Kings, to Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, peace. And now I make a decree that any one of the people of Israel, or their priests, or Levites in my kingdom, who freely offers to go up to Jerusalem may go with you For you are sent by the king and his seven counselors to make inquiries about Judah and Jerusalem according to the law of your God, which is in your hand, excuse me. And also to carry the silver and gold that the king and his counselors have freely offered to the God of Israel, those dwelling in Jerusalem with all the silver and gold that you find in the whole province of Babylonia, and with the free will offerings of the people and the priests, vowed willingly for the house of their God that is in Jerusalem With this money, then, you shall with all diligence buy rams, bulls, and lambs with their grain offerings and their drink offerings. and you shall offer them on the altar of the house of your God that is in Jerusalem. Whatever seems good to you and your brothers to do with the rest Of the silver and gold you may do according to the will of your God. The vessels that have been given you for the service of the house of your God you shall deliver before the God of Jerusalem. And whatever else is required for the house of your God, which it fails falls to you to provide, you may provide it out of the king's treasury. And I, or a Xerxes the king, make a decree to all the treasurers in the provinces beyond the river Whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of God of heaven, requires of you, let it be done with all diligence, up to a hundred talents of silver, a hundred cores of wheat a hundred baths of wine, a hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much. Whatever is decreed by the God of heaven Let it be done in full for the house of the God of heaven, lest his wrath be against the realm of the king and his sons, We also notify you that it shall not be lawful to impose tribute, custom, and or toll on any one of the Of the priests, the Levites, the singers, the doorkeepers, the temple servants, or other servants of this house of God. And you, Ezra According to the wisdom of your God that is in your hand, appoint magistrates and judges, who may judge all the people in the province beyond the river, all such as know the laws of your God. and those who do not know them you shall teach. Whoever will not obey the law of your God and the law of the king, let judgment be strictly executed on him Blessed be the Lord, the God of our fathers, who put such a thing into uh as this such a thing as this into the heart of the king to beautify the house of the Lord that is in Jerusalem and who extended to me his steadfast love before the king and his counselors, and before all the king's mighty officers. I took courage, for the hand of the Lord my God was on me, and I gathered leading men from Israel to go up with me. That is, Ezra chapter 7. Remarkable. Yes, or do Xerxes? King of Persia, the emperor of the most powerful empire in the world, and the most powerful empire that the world had seen up till that time He wants to honor God. He doesn't want to fall into the wrath of God. He is fearing God. Now he's a pagan. He worships other gods. He thinks of the God of heaven as being one God among many, so let's not push it too far and pretend like he's a you know true follower of Yahweh. But So remarkable, he not only gives Ezra the authority to go back to Jerusalem and teach the law without being harassed or stopped. But he tells them he can take anybody with him who's willing to go. That means he might lose some of the best and brightest out of his own kingdom there in the in the immediate vicinity around Persia, they might decide to go back because we know some of the Jewish people were among some of the leaders in uh scholarship and in service in in the government. And so maybe maybe they want to go back. They can go with him. And not only that, but he gives him money. And not only that, but he asks the governors of the province beyond the river, to give Ezra whatever he needs. Of course he sets some limits, but they're pretty generous limits. Give him whatever he needs. And he says, Let everything be done that God requires. Don't leave anything undone. In fact, he goes so far as to say, you go out and you help people keep the law, and if they don't know the law, you teach them the law. So Ezra is commissioned by Artaxerxes, the Persian emperor, to go and teach the law of God to the people of God so that they can be more obedient. And more faithful to God. And he says, if anyone violates the law of God or the law of the king, so if they violate the law of the Lord, Yahweh, the Mosaic covenant, or they violate the Persian law. It's going to be a penalty from Persia. He's going to enforce and uphold the law of God. Now, we do need some caveats here. This is an Old Testament passage. We're still in the time period when the kingdom of God is. a theocratic, uh geographic, geopolitical, ethnic state, right? It's under the Persian Empire, but this is still a time when God has said these people in this place under my law, under the civil law and the ceremonial law, they are my people. We live in a New Testament age. Christ has fulfilled the ceremonial law in his sacrifice. We don't bring My kingdom is rather like yeast that gets worked throughout the kingdoms of the world. It's salt and light that penetrates So the kingdom of God is a kingdom spread and penetrating and found throughout, rather than taking over a particular geographical area. So the the Christian nation is the church. The Holy Kingdom is the church. We are the chosen people of God and the holy nation of God according to 1 Peter chapter 2. So we do need to make that Old Testament to New Testament adjustment and how we think. But we should see here. That Ezra has been so faithful to study the law of God and to do the law of God and to teach the law of God. Of God that God has blessed him. God has blessed him, and God has sent him out with the King's blessing, with the King's provision, to go and teach the law of God of God to the people of God. We should expect not necessarily demand or lobby for or fight for For, but we should expect that it may please the Lord. I'll put it that way. We should expect that it may please the Lord that if we are earnestly desiring to be faithful to Him And that's a big if, right? We study the word. We want to do what the word says. We want to teach the word. We want to trust God, we want to obey God, we want to call other people to trust and obey God. We should expect that God may be pleased to grant us favor in the eyes of civil authorities who would say You're doing a good thing. This is for the general welfare of our people. This is for the good ordering of our kingdom, of our civilization. So We're going to say go for it, right? Uh there's a long tradition of churches and ministers of the gospel having tax exempt status. and having uh favor from the government. That's being challenged and questioned in our post Christian culture, which is a little bit of a problematic phrase. But anyway, um it's certainly being challenged and say, oh churches should pay their taxes like everybody else and you know there should be no ministerial exemption for things. But but the reason why those things have been there is You know, a truth that's been acknowledged for centuries, and that is that the church, when it is being faithful to God, not not Right? Like the celebrity preachers we see on TV who wear their multimillion dollar uh clothing budget and, you know, flash their Rolex watches and fly on their private jets and live in mansions and preach a false gospel of of earthly prosperity. Not when people see that, they're like, why isn't that guy paying taxes? And I got I'm gonna agree with that. That guy ought to pay taxes. If he's gonna be wearing millions of dollars worth of clothes and flying on a private jet and living in a fancy multimillion dollar mansion, you know, that's not even a church. That's just a a uh a con artist business to promote one guy's ego and one guy's uh wealth and power and uh it ought to come under investigation. and but the church, the faithful church, the church that is seeking to honor the Lord, the church that is seeking to be solved Even if the world doesn't agree with us on all of our positions, I'm sure there were stipulations in the law of God that Artaxerxes would elect that and said, I don't really agree with that. But he saw that it was good, and so he blessed it. Now, again, as we make the shift from Old Testament to New Testament, we need to agree with what Jesus said, and that is that if we follow him we we will be persecuted. If the world hated uh hates us, keep in mind it hated him first. Paul said, Everyone who lives wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. So We need to keep that truth in mind too. But it is also true, even along with that, while the kingdom advances, it is at times smiled upon and favored by the governing authorities as being something that is good for people. Good for human flourishing, good for the good ordering of society, and so sometimes blessed and protected, but then in other times, even while being faithful to God, even while being upholding of his word subject to persecution. Certainly, you know, eleven of the twelve apostles were killed as martyrs, uh executed by the government for their Christian faith, and the twelfth, the Apostle John, ended his life in exile on the island of Patmos and they were not unfaithful to God. They weren't they weren't T V charlatans, right? And the Roman Empire said, You're a threat to us. So this is not a don't hear me saying the sort of prosperity gospel or sort of you know um Christian reconstructionist sort of stuff and say that we should you know rebuild a Christian civilization that you know and that's definitely God's plan. That's that is not really what the gospel is all about. But it is true. That if we are faithful to God and loving God and loving our neighbor, and doing good, obeying the governing authorities and paying our taxes where t where taxes are due and serving our neighbors in love will often please the Lord to see that the governing authorities see that and recognize that and say those people are a positive thing in In our society, we should seek to help them in what they're doing and we should praise God for that. Um and I think it is in many ways the sign of a healthy church as well as a healthy government when there's a friend So what's our our takeaway? Our takeaway is simply to be faithful to God, to be like Ezra. You know, this is one of those be like Ezra Ezra passages. And really verse 10 is the key here. For Ezra, start in verse 9, for the good hand of the Lord Uh sorry, for the good hand of his God was on him, for Ezra had set his heart to study the law of the Lord and to do it and to teach his statutes and rules in Israel. So when we see that we should say that's a calling that really every Christian should pursue because we're all priests of God in the universal priesthood of all believers. We're all called to be prophets of God and the fact that we are to speak forth the word of God to the culture, not that we receive new revelation, it's a whole different issue, but we we are to speak forth the word of God to the culture. Um, and so we should study the law, the word of God, the whole counsel of God, to do it and to teach it, and to proclaim it from a heart that says Heavenly Father, thank you for this chapter. Thank you for the challenge it is to us as a church that we We would be faithful to you. Make us faithful to you. Help us to study your word so that we might do it and that we might teach it and preach it to others. Make us a people of your word. Shape By your word, led by your word, and with your word in our hearts and overflowing to our lips. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That's Ezra Chapter 7. Tomorrow we're going to go right on to chapter 8. Hope you can join me for that. As always, have a blessed day in the Lord.