Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I've got my FCA cross-country coaches shirt on. We had a cross-country meet earlier today. I did very well. I'm one of the assistant coaches for our local FCA. cross country team. It's one of the great things I enjoy doing. Today we are in John 9, here in the middle of week 34. This is one of the most famous miracle stories of Jesus. He heals a man born blind. The entire chapter is this one story, so we're going to look at the entire chapter. today. And the man who's born blind and who's healed by Jesus becomes a model for how to bear witness to the work of Jesus in your life. We are all born spiritually blind. And Jesus opens our eyes so that we can see spiritual truth, so we can see and enter the kingdom of God. And so that he becomes an example to us. So the question we're asking today is, how can we faithfully testify to the work of Jesus in our lives? Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us today. Thank you for your unfailing faithfulness. You are with us, you are for us, you love us, and we thank you. Please write your word on our hearts today. Please show us Jesus and show us how we can be faithful ambassadors for Christ, faithful witnesses. to the work he's done in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, John chapter 9. As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents that he was born blind? Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world Having said these things, he sat on the ground and made mud with the saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud and said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, which means scent. So he went and washed and came back seeing. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? Some said, It is he. Others said, No, but i he is like him. He kept saying, I am the man So they said to him, Then how were your eyes opened? He answered, The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know. They brought him to the Pharisees. The man who had been formerly blind. Now it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and I see. Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. So they said again to the blind man, What do you say about him since he has opened your eyes? He said, He is a prophet. The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight. and asked them, Is this your son who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind. But how he now sees, we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him. He is of age. He will speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. Therefore his parents said, He is of age, ask him. So for the second time They called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. He answered, Whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? And they reviled him, saying, You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered, Why, this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners. But if anyone is a worshipper of God and does his will, God listens to him Never since the world began has it been heard that any one opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God He could do nothing. They answered him, You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us? And they cast him out Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. So the conclusion of this story, the way that Jesus interacts with the Pharisees, makes it very clear that this is more than just a story about a healing of a man born blind. Yes, Jesus healed a man born blind. No one had ever done that before in the history of the world. This is a unique and powerful miracle that proves that Jesus is the Son of God and the promised Messiah. But it's also a lesson for all of us, because all of us are blind. And Jesus came into the world that those Who are blind may see, that those who do not see may see, but also those who see, those who claim to see, like the Pharisees, may become blind. And so we do have evidence here from the text that this is about more than just the receiving of physical sight. We get the same evidence in the opening of the chapter when Jesus talks about being the light of the world and everyone has to do the works of God by walking in the light that Jesus is. So this is really this man coming to see by the miraculous touch of Jesus is for us a model of how Jesus causes us to see by touching us miraculously by his Holy Spirit. People sometimes wish they could see greater miracles, but there's no greater miracle than Jesus touching the life of someone who is born spiritually dead. and spiritually blind and making us spiritually alive and spiritually seeing. That is life from the dead and sight to the blind every time someone comes to faith in Jesus Christ. Now this blind man, when he was healed, He went and testified. He spoke the truth. And in that way he becomes an example to us because we have people in our lives. We have friends, we have family members, we have co-workers, we have neighbors who are not believers. And we want to tell them about what Jesus has done for us, but sometimes we feel intimidated, we feel ill-equipped, we feel unsure of what we should say or how we should say it, or how we could possibly respond to objections. And this man, this ordinary man, born blind, becomes a great example to us of of how we can be better witnesses. Much of John's Gospel is written. so that we will know that we have eternal life and that we will be better and bolder witnesses for Jesus. So what do we learn from this blind man? First of all, we learn, do not be afraid to tell others what Jesus has done for you. Now, you probably were not born physically blind, but we were all born spiritually blind. None of us were born in this world able to see the kingdom of God We're able to perceive spiritual truth. We were born spiritually dead, spiritually blind, under condemnation, without hope and without God in the world. That's how our natural condition is. So we should not be afraid to tell people that Jesus has touched our lives, He's opened our eyes so we can see the truth. He's brought us into His kingdom, He's given us eternal life, He has saved us. We should not be afraid to tell others what Jesus has done for us. Secondly, we should not pretend to know more than we do. Sometimes we can be tempted to oversell our testimony. Pretend like we know more than we do, or that we have experienced more than we have. No, what we have experienced in salvation is, as I've already said, the greatest miracle that can happen. Sight to the blind, life to the dead. But sometimes we act like, oh, Jesus has just changed my life and now I have joy all the time and peace and I don't have any more problems and life is just nothing but wonderfulness. And that's not true. Or we might claim to be more spiritually wise and spiritually mature than we actually are. This blind man never pretended to know or understand more than he actually did His testimony was simple and clear. The man Jesus, he didn't even really know who Jesus was. He said, I think he's a prophet. Later Jesus came to him so that he could have not just physical sight, but real salvation. and reveal himself to him spiritually after he opened his eyes by telling him that he's the Son of Man who was the promised one to come. And so that is important. But this man never pretends to know more than he does. That's a good second rule. Third rule, do engage in faithful reasoning based on what you do know Learning how to reason well, learning how to lovingly challenge the faulty reasoning of others reasoning of others is an important skill that we can develop. And the blind man did that. The blind man heard them say, This man's a sinner, and he said, wait a minute God doesn't listen to sinners. This Jesus opened the eyes of a man born blind. You don't know where he's from, but we know God doesn't listen to sinners. But if someone pleases God, God will listen to him. So he's using what he does know, and he's reasoning from it in order to be able to answer back the objections. He doesn't have to have a lot of factual knowledge. Or some deep study, but he's able to reason well. Fourth, keep the focus on Jesus. This blind man's testimony does not get derailed by politics or minor points of theology. He focuses on what Jesus has done for him. and what that told him about who Jesus was. Keeping the focus on Jesus, fourth rule. And finally the fifth rule, don't quit when you run into opposition. The boys' parents, they were afraid, and so they did not testify to as much as they knew. They knew that it was Jesus who opened their son's eyes, but they said, well, ask him, he is of age, because they were afraid. The man himself was not afraid. He did not quit when he ran into opposition. He had to know that he was risking being put out of the synagogue, and that was a big deal in a Jewish culture in the first century. But He told the truth. He maintained the clarity and the strength of his testimony, even in the face of much opposition. So those are five guidance points we can pick up from this man. Don't be afraid to tell others what Jesus has done for you. Don't pretend to know more than you do. Engage in faithful reasoning based upon what you do know. Keep the focus on Jesus. And don't quit when you run into opposition. May the Lord strengthen us by his Holy Spirit to be the kind of witness that this blind man was. Let's Pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for opening our eyes. Your Holy Spirit has brought us sight so that we can see and enter into the kingdom of God. Has given us faith in Jesus as our Savior and Lord. has showed us the truth, has made us alive. This is all your work. May we tell others about your work. Give us the courage, give us the clarity, give us the simplicity of thought and expression that we can tell others what you have done for us. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Well thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's lesson was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow Have a blessed day in the Lord