I'm going to read the whole of chapter one. We're focusing our attention on verses five to fourteen. But verse five is kind of an abrupt way to start in case you missed on what we covered last week. Hebrews chapter 1. This is God's holy word. Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. For to which of the angels did God ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you, or again I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, let all God's angels worship him. Of the angels, he says, he makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire. But of the Son, he says, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of uprightness. is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore God, your God, has anointed you. Coffee. I know. I've already had two cups this morning, so It's the Christmas season, and more so than any other time of the year, there's an attention on angels this time of year. And uh thank you, kind sir. Wow, much better. So, there's a focus on angels this time of year, and um most of it is not very biblical If you do a Google image search for Christmas angels, you will not find results that look anything like that. Heavenly Father, thank you for sending your son into the world. To bring us the truth and to save us. Speak to us now. Holy Spirit, write these words in our hearts we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. And um most of it is not very biblical. If you do a a Google image search for Christmas angels, you will not find results that look anything like biblical descriptions of angels. You'll see some babies with wings, you know, looking oh so cute and adorable, and you'll see a lot of Victorian-looking women with gold gowns and glittery wings. And that's not really how the Bible describes angels. Last night, uh, Beth and I had a little bit of a date night as our kids went downtown to enjoy the downtown festivities. in Bel Air. So we went out to dinner and we came back and watched a Christmas movie together. And I wanted to watch an old Christmas movie. So we watched a movie that has been recommended to me many times over the years that we've never actually seen, The Bishop's Wife. 1947 Cary Grant Classic. Well, it's an angel movie. And I wasn't really Planning on that was preaching about angels today I wasn't like, hey, it makes a get some sermon preparation in and watch an angel movie. But um It was a it's a good movie. It has a lot of the problems of Hollywood movies from the 40s. The theology's bad, but um but there's certainly a lot more of Christ and a lot more of the real meaning of Christmas in that movie than there are in in modern day movies. But Kerry Grant plays this angel who's very debonair and very suave and very kind and very helpful. He does have the power to do these miracles. So he's much powerful, much more powerful and much more masculine, I think, than the typical Christmas angel, but still not exactly a biblical picture. The author of Hebrews is writing this sermon letter to a group of believers. who know a lot about angels because they come from a Jewish background. And they're familiar with the scriptures and they're familiar with the role that angels have played in the history of God's people. And in the history of God's people, angels have played a very important role. Sometimes as messengers to bring key words from God, sometimes as deliverers to rescue God's people from slavery or from invading armies. Now, this group of Christians with a Jewish background, they were under a temptation. And their temptation was to deny Christ. And go back to the synagogue, go back to a Jewish lifestyle. And the focus in Hebrews is how you can't do that. And one of the things that he's addressing is that In the mind of some of these Jewish background believers, they thought, well, yeah, Jesus is the mediator of the covenant in this new covenant, but In God's covenant with his people, there were angels as mediators of that covenant. And so we wouldn't really wouldn't be losing that much. We'd just be going from having Jesus as a covenant mediator to having angels as a covenant mediator and aren't angels basically just as good as Jesus And the answer is no. They're not even close. And so that's what this opening chapter is really laying out, is how the angel angels are great. Angels have a wonderful place to play within God's uh created order, but they are part of his created order. They are not the creator. They are worshippers, they are not to be worshipped. They are servants, they are not saviors. And so they have a place But they don't have the place that Christ has. And so this section is all about the superiority of Christ and how he is greater, far greater than the angels. So it gives us a chance to sort of learn about What does the Bible say about angels? What role do they play? And then how is Christ superior? And where should our focus be? Because you almost think Like watching the Bishop's Wife, and again, if you love that movie, I'm not being critical. It's just 1940s Hollywood theology. I could say the same thing about one of my favorite Christmas movies, it's A Wonderful Life, which also features an angel. It's almost like the Christmas message from 1940s Hollywood is like, trust the angels guidance and do good. Right? It's like be a good person and trust the guidance of the angel who's helping you to be a good person. That's just not the gospel. It's you know it's a fine message for Hollywood to put out. It beats beats 99. 8% of the messages being put out by Hollywood today, but it ain't the gospel. So our passage today in Hebrews focuses on what angels are not. They are not the Son of God. Now there is a passage at the beginning of Job that refers to the gathering together of the sons of God, as probably talking about angelic beings But they're not the son of God. They're not the only begotten. They're not the firstborn Hebrews 1 is emphasizing that angels are servants and they're not saviors. They're creatures created by God to serve him and to serve his people. And verse 7 gives us this idea of the angels, he says, he makes his angels wins. and his ministers a flame of fire. Every word in this chapter is really important, but just the idea that the Bible says he makes his angels. That word makes is really important. Because God makes angels, but God did not make the Son. The Son is the only begotten from the Father. He is the one and only, in a category by himself, from the Father, of the Father, begotten, not made, as the Nicene Creed says. He makes them. They're also called ministers. What is a minister? A minister is a servant. Just another word for a servant. And so he makes his angels winds and his ministers, his servants, a flame of fire. Now, within the created world, wind and fire are very powerful. They are at their strongest. They are awesomely powerful, unopposably powerful. tremendously powerful. We've seen the damage that hurricane force winds or tornadoes can do. We've seen the damage that runaway wildfires can do. And angels are even more powerful. Angels are awesome in their power. You think about this. Two angels were sent to rescue Lot and his wife and his daughters out of Sodom. They started off by just striking the men who were trying to get to them with blindness so that they were groping about helplessly in the dark. But then when they escort Lot and his wife out and the two daughters follow. They call down fire and brimstone and Sodom and Gomorrah and all the cities of that valley are destroyed. I think about that. I've had two opportunities to float in the Dead Sea, which is a really cool experience if you ever get a chance to do it. But you're floating and you're aware of the fact that below you And below layers upon layers upon layers of sediment and deposit are Sodom and Gomorrah. Like that's what happened to them. That's where they are. And angels are the ones who were God's instruments to bring that about. Fast forward a few centuries, God's people are in Egypt. And God sends plague after plague after plague, and the final plague, the tenth plague, is the death of the firstborn. And it's an angel. A destroying angel who comes through the land of Egypt and all the houses that are marked by the blood of the Lamb, he passes over. But every other house he doesn't pass over, and an angel in a night brings about the death of every firstborn, of man and of beast, in the whole land of Egypt. Angels are powerful. Fast forward centuries more, and God's people are surrounded by the Assyrian army, the largest army in the world. Under King Hezekiah and the prophet Isaiah, Jerusalem is shut up tight. And the Assyrians are marching and they pray. Hezekiah and Isaiah pray for mercy from the Lord, and the Lord sends an angel. And an angel comes and kills 185,000 Assyrian warriors in a single night. So angels are very powerful. Awesomely powerful. They're not cute little babies with wings playing harps. They're not Victorian women in gowns looking beautiful. They're awesomely powerful ministers of God. When people saw angels in the Bible, their common reaction was to drop dead, basically. They were like terrified out of their minds. And before the angel could deliver the message, what did the angel always have to say? Fear not. Like don't be afraid. Which, you know, you don't have to say that if a little baby with wings comes, you know, you know. You might say don't tickle my tummy or something like that, but he's not going to say, fear not But as awesome as they are, as powerful as they are, as much as they inspire awe and wonder in those who see them unveiled, because there's also times like Kery Grant that in the Bible angels appear in just human form. And you don't really know that they're angels necessarily. There is some of that. But when they are unveiled and they appear in power, it's terrifying. As awesome and as powerful as they are, they are not to be worshipped. And that is so clear in the Bible, they are not to be worshipped. In the book of Revelation, John is taken on supernatural tour of heaven, a vision of things to come, and he's escorted by angels. And twice in that book, the Apostle John, the last living apostle, twice he begins to worship these angels because they're so awesome. In chapter 19 and in chapter 22. And in chapter 19, it says, I fell down at his feet to worship him, but he said to me, You must not do that. I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers who hold to the testimony of Jesus, worship God. That's what the angel says. And then in verse 22, in chapter 22, John says, When I heard and I saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me. But he said to me, this will sound familiar, you must not do that. I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers, the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book, worship God. It couldn't be any clearer. Don't worship angels because they're creatures. Worship God. Worship belongs to God alone. In the providence of God, yesterday morning as we were handing out tracks and candy canes in downtown Bel Air, There were some Jehovah's Witnesses who were also there. They were on the other side of the fountain. They left sooner than we did, and so we stayed there. But initially one of them came over and started talking to us and I was in this place in my head of like, do I Do I engage this person in a gospel theological conversation or do I just sort of stay polite because I really don't, you know, I don't want this person like tying up our conversation when we're looking for people passing by? So I ended up not not engaging. Um but they went back. But you know, Jehovah's Witnesses don't believe that Jesus is God. They believe that he's a creation of God that he's the first creation of God, like the highest of the angels, like even higher than Michael the Archangel. But no. And we'll see later, it's because Jesus is worshipped. And repeatedly, when Jesus is worshipped, he doesn't say what the angel says, don't do that, I'm your fellow servant. He receives the worship given to him. So angels are worshipers, but they are not to be worshipped. They worship. Angels exalt Christ and they serve us. The mission of angels of God is twofold. They exalt Christ and they serve us. We can see this At two key moments in the Gospels, particularly recorded in the Gospel of Luke. At the beginning of Jesus' life on earth and at the end at the resurrection, in Luke 2 and in Luke 24. In Luke 2 In the same night there were shepherds out in the field keeping watch over their flock by night, and an angel of the Lord appeared to them. And the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. When the angels went away from them into heaven The shepherds said to one another, Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. What do we see the angels doing here? They're worshiping God, right? Glory to God on the highest. They're exalting Christ. They're telling who this baby is. He's a Savior. He is Christ the Lord. And then he's helping God's people. Here's how you're going to know who the baby is. He'll be the one wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger because he's the spotless Lamb of God. Come to save us. At the other end of Luke's gospel, at the resurrection, we see angels appearing again. Luke 24. But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they went to the tomb, taking the spices that they had prepared. And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. But when they went in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel. And as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but has risen. Remember how he told you while he was still in Galilee that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men. and crucified, and on the third day rise, and they remembered his words. So here they come again as messengers. And they're exalting Christ by proclaiming the resurrection, but they're also helping God's people to remember what God has said. At times in his earthly life, angels ministered to Jesus. It is temptation in the desert wilderness. After forty days of fasting and after the three temptations, angels ministered to him and strengthened him. In the Garden of Gethsemane, Luke records. that an angel ministered to him as he was weak from the temptation to want to deny the cross And so we have angels serving to exalt Christ and to bless his people. Now the Son of God is far greater than the angels. That's what Hebrews wants us to know. The Son of God is far greater than the angels. But of the sun, he says, your throne, O God, is forever and ever The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. And you, Lord Laid the foundations of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands. They will perish, but you remain. They will all wear out like a garment, like a robe, you will roll them up, like a garment, they will be changed. But you are the same, and your years will have no end. You know, those Jehovah's Witnesses and other critics of Christianity will sometimes say there's a dog on Stavros's head. They don't actually say that. But they will say Jesus is never actually called God in the Bible. He was helping some of you who are falling asleep to wake up. That's what he was helping you guys do. Okay. But Jehovah's Witnesses and other critics of Christianity will sometimes say, well, the Bible never calls Jesus God. A couple months ago I got a phone call from a crank, frankly, who was looking to sort of have an argument and he called me up and uh he said basically the same thing. Jesus is the Son of God, but he's not God and the Bible never calls him God. Really? Because Hebrews 1. 8 says, Of the Son he says, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. Sounds to me like the Bible calling the Son of God God, whose throne is forever and ever. And even more The second quotation here starting in verse 10 to 12, that quotation is from Psalm 102. You go back and read Psalm 102, it is addressed to the Lord, to Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel. And Hebrews is saying that this is about Jesus. It's addressed to Jesus. You, Lord, Jesus, Yahweh, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning. And And it affirms the eternity of the Son of God, the unchangeableness of the Son of God. So who is God? Who is eternal, and who is unchangeable? The Son. That's pretty high, pretty remarkable, right? And so Hebrews 1 is very, very clear. He's the only begotten of the Father. There are some people who will take verse five and other passages of scripture and they'll take them out of context and they'll say Well, you see here in verse 5 it's saying, You are my son, today I have begotten to you, or again, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And they have this false view of Jesus that's called adoptionism. And adoptionism is a view of Jesus that says Jesus was born into the world as an ordinary man. But at some point in his life, he had lived such a good life and had been so obedient to God that God decided to adopt him as his son Most of the time adoptionism says that happened at his baptism. When Jesus was baptized, he came up by the water, the voice came from heaven, this is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. See, that moment is when God the Father adopted the man Christ Jesus, who is just an ordinary man as his son. But again, that would ignore the rest of what Hebrews 1 says. about Jesus, about how your throne is forever and ever, and about how you, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands. So whenever someone takes a scripture verse And they're using it to try to prove something that you're pretty sure the Bible doesn't teach, and you're wondering, like head scratching, like Well, what does that mean? And how do I know that this isn't teaching this weird view that I think is not in keeping with Christianity? The first thing to do is just to read the whole context of the verse. Because a verse that's taken out of context can be a pretext for all sorts of heresy. But you put it back in its context and you realize, okay, what what is going on here? Well, he's talking about the exaltation of the Son. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. For to which of the angels did God ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you, or again I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son and then jump down to thirteen, or to which of the angels has God ever said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Here we need to distinguish Sometimes it's important to understand biblical truth to be able to make helpful distinctions. And sometimes you might think, well, that's just Hetty theology. No, Hetty theology is actually how we know and love the Lord Jesus if we understand it biblically and correctly. So there's a distinction here between what is true of Christ in his human nature and what is true of Christ in his divine nature. And actually, all of Hebrews 1 is a weaving together of this. How do we understand that Christ is true God and true man? How do we understand that Christ is the God man? How can he be God's word to us, the word made flesh, but also the right representative of humanity before God? Because that's also his role. He's the right the rightful head of a new humanity, the rightful, the new Adam, the second Adam, the new head of a new humanity. How is he that? Well see these verses are talking about the humanity of Jesus. Jesus was put to test. He was put to the test. Just as the first Adam was put to a test. The first Adam, he was tested in a garden where all of his needs were being fully taken care of. And there were no real problems. He faced one temptation from one serpent, and he gave in and he blew it for everybody. The second Adam comes and as a man, the man Christ Jesus, he was tested. He's tested in the desert wilderness after 40 days of fasting. He is hungry, he is deprived, he is weak physically, and he's tempted by the devil with three temptations that are supernatural in nature. Showing him all the kingdoms of the world and all their wealth, taking him to the vinegar of the temple. So he's supernaturally tempted three times and he passes that test. But then again, the Garden of Gethsemane, he's tested again with such Pressure, such such extreme temptation that his sweat becomes drops of blood under the pressure of Deny the cross, turn away from the cross, get out of here, tell God you're not going to do it anymore. So the man Christ Jesus had to be an obedient servant. Even unto death, even death on a cross, as Philippians 2 says. And it's the man Christ Jesus who is then exalted to the highest place. And he's given the name that is above every name, that is far superior to angels. And what is that name? Well, it's the first creed of the church. Here's your quiz time. Ready? Pay attention. We've had a couple of creedal statements here today. We had the Nicene Creed. What was the first creed of the church? I'll give you a hint. It's only three words long. And in Greek it's only two words long. Jesus is Lord. You see that repeatedly in the Bible. No one can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit, right? Whoever confesses with their mouth Jesus is Lord. That's the first confession or the first creed of the church. And what the church meant by that is that Jesus is Yahweh. Because Lord, kurios, is the way that the Greek Bible that all of them read, that's the way that Yahweh was rendered in Greek. If you read the context of Philippians 2, Hebrews 1, to say Jesus is Lord, to make that confession of faith is to say that Jesus is Yahweh in human flesh. How did the man Jesus get to be definitively declared as Yahweh, God? with authority. Well, Romans 1 tells us he was declared to be Son of God with power by his resurrection from the dead. It was after his resurrection that he appears to the disciples in the upper room. And remember Thomas isn't there on that first appearance, and so Thomas is called doubting Thomas because he's like, unless I put my finger in his hands and my hand besides I'm not going to believe well eight days later the next Sunday Jesus appears again and Thomas sees him and Thomas says what my Lord and my God And he bows down and he worships him. And Jesus doesn't say, no, you must not worship me. He receives Thomas's worship Because in the resurrection, in his exaltation, Jesus, who already was the eternal Son of God, in his human nature now is exalted as the God man for all eternity. He is God and man. He is sacrifice and satisfaction. He is resurrection and life. He is our Lord and our God and our head and our representative. He is so far superior to the angels. We had the Nicene Creed earlier. You can't really get better language than the Nicene Creed because they worked it out very carefully to be very biblical. I believe in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God, begotten of his Father before all worlds, that's from eternity past. God of God, light of light, very God of very God, begotten not made, of one substance with the Father, by whom all things were made, who for us and for our salvation came down from heaven and was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary and was made man That's what we believe. And believing that brings salvation because only God, come in the human flesh, can save us from our sins. So while angels are never worshipped in Scripture, Jesus was worshipped by the angels when he came into the world. He was worshipped by his disciples after he rose again from the dead, and he's been worshipped by his people ever since. Angels serve as ministers, but Jesus rules as king forever. Angels do his bidding He is Jesus, the Son of David, who sits on the throne at God's right hand as King of all kings and Lord of all lords, and from there he will come to judge the living and the dead. He is the King who reigns forever. And he is the eternally unchanging creator. You are the same And your years will have no end, is what Hebrews 112 says, quoting Psalm 102. The end of Hebrews chapter 13, Hebrews are going to say very famously, Jesus Christ is the same, yesterday, today, and forever. Can we say that about you? Are you the same today as you were yesterday? No. Are you the same today as you were 20 years ago? 30 years ago? No. But Jesus, sitting at the right hand of the Father, is absolutely perfect in every way. And he does not change. And that is good news. Do you understand what good news it is that Jesus does not change? You ever wake up grumpy? Uh spouses, husbands, wives. You ever wake up in the morning mad at your spouse? And you're not even sure why? Probably was something that happened in a dream, but you don't even really remember it. You're just kind of like Who are you and why are you here? Why are you bothering me? Ever have a morning like that, or is that just me? And so, like, we change in all sorts of weird ways because of weird biochemical processes. We eat too much pizza, we stay up too late watching a movie We don't sleep well at night, we have a bad dream, and we wake up in a bad mood. Do you know Jesus never has that happen? And that is good news. Because we may doubt our salvation, we may doubt our faith, we may waver, but he never does. He never says, Well, I know I loved you yesterday, but today I'm kind of in a bad mood, and you're kind of making me a little bit irritated. He knows us inside and out perfectly better than we know ourselves, and he loves us perfectly with an unchangeable love. He is the eternally unchanging Savior. Our salvation, this is the third part of your outline note taker, but it's real short. I'm going to give it to you in like a minute. This happens sometimes when I write a sermon. I spend so long on the first couple parts, I'm like, uh Okay. So our salvation was announced by angels. Angels had the privilege of being the ones to announce the coming of Christ into the world, to announce the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. They are very privileged messengers. They get to announce The salvation of God. But our salvation was accomplished by the Son. The angels announced it, but the Son accomplished it. He did the work to save us. He fulfilled all righteousness so that we could have a perfect human righteousness. He took all of our sins upon himself on the cross. so we can be completely forgiven. He rose again and conquered sin and death forevermore, so we can live forevermore with him. He accomplished our salvation. And since then, angels now serve the heirs of salvation. And to me, the end of Hebrews 1 is one of the most encouraging verses. Remember what I said earlier about how powerful angels are. About how much angels can accomplish when they're doing the will of God. In that light, here, the last verse of Hebrews 1. Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation? Angels are serving with a purpose for your sake if you believe in Jesus So that you will inherit the salvation that Jesus has accomplished for you. Jesus is praying for you in heaven Ceaselessly, and angels are ministering on earth ceaselessly in ways you aren't even aware of, to protect you, to provide for you to help you, to encourage you, so that you will inherit the salvation that Jesus accomplished For you. That should bring us tremendous comfort. And the stronger and the mightier and the more powerful angels are, the more encouragement that ought to give us, because they're on our side. And they're fighting for us in ways that we never see mostly. They're real, but they're not to be worshipped. Our application is very simple. We can be very thankful to God for angels. People talk about angels this time of year. You say, yes, I believe in angels. I believe that angels are real. I believe that they are God's servants. I believe that they were sent into the world to announce the coming of Christ. But I don't believe in angels in the fact that my faith is not in angels. I believe in Jesus. The one that the angels believe in, and the one that the angels announced his coming into the world. We don't need any other savior or any other mediator, the one who is far greater than angels, the one who commands the angels is our Savior, is our mediator, is our friend, and he came for us, and he will keep us until we are home with him. So let's focus on him this Christmas season. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, thank you for sending your Son into the world. your only begotten Son. Lord Jesus, you are so much greater than the angels. You command the angels as King of kings and Lord of Lords. We're thankful that you do send your angels as ministering spirits to serve for our sake. Holy Spirit, strengthen our faith in Jesus, and may we be encouraged when we think about angels. To know that they are serving for our sake, that we might inherit the salvation that Jesus accomplished for us. Help us to praise you and to love you. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.