Isaiah fifty-one, verses one to sixteen. This is the word of God. Listen to me. You who pursue righteousness, you who seek the Lord, look to the rock from which you were hewn and to the quarry from which you were dug. Look to Abraham, your father, and to Sarah who bore you, for he was but one when I called him, that I might bless him and multiply him. For the Lord comforts Zion. He comforts all her wasteplaces and makes her wilderness like Eden, her desert like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness will be found in her, thanksgiving and the voice of song. Give attention to me, my people, and give ear to me, my nation, for a law will go out from me and I will set my justice for a light to the peoples. My righteousness draws near, my salvation has gone out, and my arms will judge the peoples. The coastlands wait in hope for me. And for my arm they wait. Lift up your eyes to the heavens and look at the earth beneath. For the heavens vanish like smoke, the earth will wear out like a garment, and they who dwell in it will die in like manner. But my salvation will be forever, and my righteousness will never be dismayed. Listen to me, you who know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law. Fear not the reproach of man. Nor be dismayed at their revilings, for the moth will eat them up like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool, but my righteousness will be forever. and my salvation to all generations. Awake! Awake! Put on strength O arm of the Lord, awake as in the days of old, the generations of long ago, was it not you who cut Rahab in pieces, who pierced the dragon? Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the depths of the sea away for the redeemed to pass over? And the ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing. Everlasting joy. shall be upon their heads. They shall obtain gladness and joy and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. I, I am He who comforts you. Who are you that you are afraid of man who dies, of the Son of Man who is made like grass and have forgotten the Lord your Maker, who stretched out the heavens and laid the foundation of the earth And you fear continually all the day because of the wrath of the oppressor when he sets himself to destroy? And where is the wrath of the oppressor? He who is bowed down shall speedily be released. He shall not die and go down to the pit, neither shall his bread be lacking. I am the Lord your God. Who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name, and I have put my words in your mouth and covered you in the shadow of my hand, establishing the heavens and laying the foundation of the earth, and saying to Zion, You are my People. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, what a powerful and much-needed word we have heard from you As we take time to reflect on it, would you please write it on our hearts? Plant it deep in us. That it might bear fruit, that we might grow in righteousness, in the fear of the Lord, in hopeful expectation, in confidentness Joy in Jesus, our Savior, who makes all of these things possible. It's in His name we pray. Amen. You may be seated. If you are a believer, then you want to trust God in every season and every circumstance of your life. You desire to walk by faith and not live in fear. But so often we don't We don't. We get afraid and and we lose perspective. And we don't live by faith, and we don't act in accordance with truth, and we don't follow after the love of God, but we act in fear. We act in anxiety. We act in self-protection. Reminds me of when my kids were little and they had to get shot at the doctor. And ahead of time They could be fine. They could be clinging to their parents. They could be holding your hand as you're walking into the doctor's office. They could be in a good mood. They could think that you're wonderful, and then the needle comes. And all reason and all trust goes out the window and they just scream and they're mad at you and they lose it because of the fear of what is in front of them. And of course, you know that this is for their good and it's in love, but they can't see anything but what they're afraid of. In Isaiah 51, we find the people of God living in fear. Before they were sent off into exile, they lived in fear. That first the Assyrians and then the Babylonians would come and conquer them and destroy their country and carry them off into exile in a foreign land where they would functionally be slaves to a foreign power. And While God spared them from the Assyrians, that did happen when the Babylonians came, and God decreed that it was time for his people to go into captivity, which he had warned them about. And so then they were in exile. They were afraid that they were going to be abandoned by God in a foreign land, that God was going to forget about them, and they were just going to be absorbed into the Babylonian Empire, and they were going to lose their sense of identity and all security. Even after their return from exile, they were afraid that they were just going to get stomped out or swallowed up by the bigger, stronger kingdoms around them. That almost happened. In the days of the Persian Empire, the Persian Empire that graciously restored the Jewish people to their land under God's providence, a couple of generations later in the book of Esther, we find that Mordecai was or Haman was plot plotting to to destroy the people of God. And Mordecai and Esther were used by God to intervene. But so it's not that they didn't have reason to fear. When the largest armies of the world are marching on you, you have reason to be afraid. But they forgot who God Was. They forgot what God had done for them in the past. They forgot the promises that God had made to them of what He was going to do in the future. And they just panicked. And in their panic, they did selfish, evil, wicked things. They sacrificed to any God they could get their hands on. Any sacrifice that might be required, if it might bring them deliverance. And we do the same thing. When we get afraid, when we forget who God is, when we forget what God has promised, when we forget what God has done for us in the past, when we forget what God has promised in the future, and we feel stuck and we feel desperate, We reach out for anything that seems like it might bring us relief or distraction or salvation, sometimes even knowing that that is just not Right. It it can be something as simple as a parent very, very concerned about a child and frustrated and just losing your temper. And exploding and yelling and screaming. You know that's not what you're supposed to do. The anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. That's the reason why I have that verse memorized. Or it can be when things aren't adding up financially and you think, well, maybe we'll just skip giving to God and maybe we'll just cheat on our taxes a little bit or maybe we'll just w there's an opportunity at work, it would require me to be away from my family a lot more or probably miss church a lot, but I I I need the money. There's nothing else I can do. Whenever we think I need or I must and there's nothing else I can do, that should be assigned to us. Say, wait a minute. Back up, take a deep breath, and let's follow the advice, the guidance that's laid out for us in Isaiah 2. 51. God addresses his people, and three times in this passage, he basically says, listen to me. Verse 1, listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, you who seek the Lord. Verse 4, give attention to me, my people, and give ear to me, my nation. Verse 7, listen to me, you who know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law. Now I have to say right up front, if we understand the address that God's making, he's not talking necessarily to all of those who would be identified as being part of his people. He has a particular group in mind. So this right up front at the beginning we have to say, is this word for us? Here's a condition. We see it most clearly in verse 1 and in verse 7. Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, who seek the Lord Verse 7, listen to me, you who know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law. You see, God is not saying this indiscriminately to everyone who might be identified as an Israelite or as a Jew. He's saying, no, no, no, no. I need the attention I want the attention of those who want to hear what I am going to say. God has a word for us here. But it's probably not the word that our flesh wants to hear. Our flesh wants to hear, everything's going to be okay, nothing bad is going to happen to you. You're going to get everything you always dreamed of. Right? We want the Disney message. When you wish upon a star, makes no difference who you are. All your dreams will come true. Give me that word, and then I can feel good because I'm gonna get my way. It's not what God says. This is written by Isaiah 150 years before the exile. This is written to people who are going to go into exile. In other words, everything they're fearing Will in fact come to pass, and yet God says, don't be afraid. Because I have something for you. That the world can't touch. I have something for you that is better than what you want. I have something for you that is everlasting, that is eternal. And he says it repeatedly: my righteousness. My righteousness is everlasting. My righteousness will never be taken away. My salvation will be for all generations. He's promising his people the gospel. Which is, I will save you by giving you my righteousness. And that will never be taken away from you. We know a lot of people in this church who are fighting cancer right now or struggling with cancer going through cancer. Some of them, perhaps all of them, God may be pleased to heal. in this life, with a temporary physical healing that will extend their earthly existence by a limited period of time. But if they belong to the Lord, all of them have a righteousness and a salvation that cancer cannot take away. They will receive an eternal healing. They will be filled with gladness and joy forever. And perhaps it may be God's will for some of them that He's going to spare them an extended time in this world. And bring them immediately, sooner than we would want, into his presence of peace and joy. And while we wouldn't want that, and we're praying for the healing that he might bring now, he might have a different plan. And we might have to say, with joy, thy will be done Because in the end, we know that that which God gives can never be lost and will never ultimately or eternally disappear. point. But we have to believe that. We have to believe in what God gives. In who God is and how He's promised it, and how He has provided in the past and how He will provide in the future. And so in this passage, God gives us ample ground to deepen our faith in Him And he does it by calling us to look back at what he's done in the past, to look ahead to what he's going to do in the future, and to look up to him to see his character and his promises. Now I have this in the outline. I have it broken down as one to three and then four to six. And the reality is these things are all woven together. So the looking back. There's three big things that God calls his people to look back on and to anchor themselves in. The first one that comes in verses 1 to 3 is actually in verse 2. The end of verse 1. Look to the rock from which you were hewn and to the quarry from which you were dug. Look to Abraham your father and to Sarah who bore you. The idea is that Abraham is the rock and Sarah the quarry from which God formed his people. What do we know about them? Well, Abraham was but one when I called him. They were alone when God called them. And God promised to multiply and bless them. God promised it when Abraham was 75 and Sarah was 65. That's pretty implausible. You know But then God waited twenty-five years to make it pass from implausible to flat out impossible. And somewhere in that time, Abraham doubts and wonders and asks God, and God says, come on outside and look up at the night sky. And of course, we have to remember they're in an arid place in the Middle East, pre-industrial Right? So it's like the maximum amount of stars you could ever imagine seeing in a sky. God says, look up at the sky. Your descendants will be as numerous as the stars in the sky. And Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. And that becomes the foundation of justification by faith. But but this elderly couple, childless, from a human perspective, if you look at it from a human perspective, from what people could see And what people can understand, it is preposterous to think that this old couple, nomads, wandering in a land that's not even theirs Are actually the most important couple in the history of the world. Which they are. Abraham and Sarah, the most important couple in the history of the world. Or from a Christian perspective, we can look back at another event. We can look back at the disciples. of Jesus gathered in the upper room 120 people in Jerusalem after Jesus had ascended into heaven and he says, wait for me, wait for the Holy Spirit to come upon you. Here's 120 people. They're scared. They keep the door locked. They keep a lookout for the Roman soldiers who might come and arrest them at any time. Are these people going to become the leaders of the most important intellectual, theological, and cultural movement in the history of the world? Come on, from a human perspective, that's ridiculous. You're talking about fishermen and tax collectors But God sees not what we see, but he sees what he has purposed to do. And what we see is always incomplete, always unreliable. Always from our perspective unpredictable, but what God has purposed to do will certainly happen. It will not fail. The other event that he looks calls him to look back upon is looking back even farther. In verse 13, he says And the Lord your Maker, who stretched out the heavens and laid the foundation of the earth. I mean, even more preposterous is to think that there could be absolutely nothing in the universe. Nothing. And that God could speak, let there be, and everything would come into existence and then be ordered. and then be populated with thriving life. But God did that all by the word of his power. And if we believe he did that by the word of his power, nothing else is really that difficult Remember Billy Graham was once asked, do you really believe all these miracles in the Bible, feeding the 5,000, walking on water, raising the dead? Do you really believe all these things? And he said, I believe the first verse of the Bible, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. I figure after that anything else is pretty easy. There's a third thing that they're called to look back upon. It's actually part of their prayer to God. that God God gives them in verse 10, uh in verses um 9, 10, and 11, he gives them a prayer to pray. And In verse ten, the prayer is, Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, and made the depths of the sea away for the redeemed to pass over? Remember that picture? The most powerful army in the world was pursuing God's people. The Egyptians were known for their horses and chariots. Everybody in the world feared the Egyptian army because of their horses and chariots. They had countless horses and chariots. They could muster thousands of horses and chariots. The people of God were slaves on foot in family groupings, children, women. They had never fought a battle, they had never trained for military combat, and they're being chased by the most powerful army in the world, being led by a massive group of chariots and horses. There's no hope. There's absolutely no hope. So, of course, what was the voice of fear saying? We hear it. God lets us hear it. God just brought us out here in the desert to die. We should just go back to slavery. Let's just turn ourselves in and hope they'll have mercy on us because there's nothing else we can do. Don't ever believe that voice that says, There's nothing else we can do but this sinful thing that we know we shouldn't be doing. God told his people to stand still and watch. Oh, and Moses holded that stick in your hands. And God parts the Red Sea, leads his people through on dry ground, and then drowns the Egyptian army in the waters. In our own lives, we can look back at the many times and the many ways that God has provided, has protected, has blessed us. He's never failed us in the past. And he will not fail us now. Does that mean that we've always gotten everything we wanted? No. Does that mean we've never had to suffer? No. Does that mean that God hasn't given us some things which have been so hard that we still don't see or understand His good purposes in them? Nope. But he's never failed us. He's never failed to keep his promises. He will always do what he has promised to do. And so God also asks us to look forward to the things that He has promised to do. From the perspective of Isaiah's day, they're looking forward In verse 4, give attention to me, my people, and give ear to my to me, my nation, for a law will go out from me, and I will set my justice for a light to the peoples. My righteousness draws near, my salvation has gone out, and my arms will judge the peoples. The coastlands hope for me, and for my arm they wait Lift up your eyes to the heavens and look to the earth beneath, for the heavens will vanish like smoke, the earth will wear out like a garment. They who dwell in it will die in like manner, but my salvation will be forever, and my righteousness will never be dismayed. Here God's calling his people to look forward to two things that he's going to do. He's going to send out a law or a teaching, the word is Torah, which r means more than we think law, we think a set of rules. It really is a teaching or a word. He's going to send out a word, a teaching, as justice, which is going to be a light for the peoples, and is righteousness and is salvation. This is the gospel. These are all ways of talking about the gospel, the good news of salvation in Jesus Christ. It is the establishment of justice because God is just, sin must be punished And we are his people and we hope for his righteousness, but we've all sinned. And so in justice, sin must be punished. So Jesus came to take upon himself the punishment that we deserve for our sins. That's why it's justice. It's righteousness because God not only takes away our sin so that in justice he can declare us not guilty, but he gives us the righteousness of Christ. Jesus didn't just go to the cross for us. He also lived a life of perfect obedience for us. He fulfilled all righteousness for us so that we can have before God a perfect record of righteousness, not our own. given to us, and that's why it never fails or fades. If it was my record of righteousness, it would fail and it would fade. But if it's Jesus' record of righteousness, then it never fails and it never fades That is salvation. And that's a salvation that God is saying right here in Isaiah is for all the peoples All peoples, the coastlands, the nations, this is just a way of saying this is for the whole world. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, so that whoever believes in him. Would not perish, but have everlasting life. That's the gospel. From the time God called Abraham And promised him, through you, through your seed, all nations on earth will be blessed. From that time until the fulfillment of that promise was like 2,000 years of waiting. By the time we get to Isaiah, they're, you know, about 700 B. C. So they're about 1300 years into the waiting, but there's another 700 years of waiting ahead of them. But God is not going to fail to do what He said to do, even if from the human perspective, we're waiting a long, long time Because it's been two thousand years, hasn't it? Since Jesus said, I'm coming again and I'm going to make all things right. And that's the second thing God's people are called to look forward to, the final day of judgment and redemption, when this order of creation will be finished. And God's salvation for his people will be forever. We are in verse 5. We are waiting for verse 6. It's where we live. God's righteousness has drawn near. God's salvation has gone out. We're waiting in hope. For that day when the earth will wear out like a garment and God's salvation will be forever. The Lord has promised that He will do this. He will not fail to keep His promise. He who did not spare his own son, Romans 8 tells us. He who did not spare his own son, but freely gave him up for us all, how will he not also Along with him, graciously give us all things. He will. And so we're then called to look up. Listen to me, you who know my righteousness, verse seven, the people in whose heart is my law. Fear not the reproach of man nor be dismayed at their revilings, for the moth will eat them up like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool, but my righteousness will be forever and my salvation to all generations. And then this prayer. Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the Lord. Awake as in days of old, the generations of long ago. Was it not you? who cut Rahab in pieces, who pierced the dragon? Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the depths of the sea away, for the redeemed to pass over? And the ransom of the Lord shall return, and shall come to Zion with singing Everlasting Joy. shall be upon their heads. They shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. So verses seven and eight are a call from God to his people. To wait for what he's going to do. And then verses 9 to 11 are a faithful prayer of response from God's people back to the Lord to do what he has promised to do. This is important. It's a reminder to us that when we read something in God's Word, when we read promises of salvation and deliverance, In God's word, we should not just be cold and unmoved by them. Presbyterians, Calvinists have a reputation for being the frozen chosen. But somehow we are, you know, very somber and unmoved in our worship and in our lifestyle because God is sovereign and if He is in control, then what's the point of getting all Emotional about it. But that's not what God directs us to do. If you read the Psalms, the Psalms are a prayer book and a hymn book that God has given to us, and they are not the songs of the frozen chosen. They are alive with passion and longing and urgency. And this prayer here, God has already promised it. The response isn't, well, God's promised it. Let's just keep our mouth shut. No, it's awake, O Lord, arise, O Lord, act, O Lord. You've said you will do it. Now do it We are called by God to plead with God in prayer, to look up to Him. To pour out our hearts before Him, and then to look expectantly for Him to answer. Looking to God, putting our eyes on Him, puts our enemies and their obstacles and our obstacles in the right perspective. They come down to their real size. You know, if you compare anything to yourself, it might look really big and really scary. But if you compare it to God It's tiny. It's insignificant. It's easy. In the history of the world, this is one of the benefits of studying history. In the history of the world, there have been a number of tyrants who have risen up and who have declared that they are going to extinguish Christianity from the face of the earth. Where are they now? They've been eaten by worms. And they've been excreted as dirt. And God's people are in every country on the face of the earth Because there is no one, there is nothing that can stand in the way of God accomplishing his purposes. We need this because if we just see with our eyes, if we just look at a human perspective, there are so many things that can make us afraid or anxious. We we can very easily imagine worst-case scenarios in our minds that send us spiraling further out of control. And when we live in fear and anxiety, it's when we are compromised and we do things that we know we shouldn't be doing. And yet if God, if God is the one who comforts us, as he declares, I, verse 12, I, I am he who comforts you. Why are you afraid of man who dies and the son of man who is made like grass? Remember what happened when you were a little kid? This is probably for the boys here. I don't know, I don't need sexists, but it's probably for the boys here, I guess. Remember when you were a kid and you got into a fight with somebody and they beat you in the fight, you would say, you just wait till I tell my dad. As if your dad's gonna come beat up an eight-year-old, right? Come on. But but it was that it was that instinct of like, yeah, you might have beaten me, but you you wouldn't be able to beat my dad That's a little bit of a childish mindset, but look, there's lots of things in this world that are stronger than we are. that are greater than we are. Cultural forces, international, you know, powers, just economic conditions. uh that can get in the way. But God is the one who comforts us And God has promised us. He will bring us into joy. He will provide for us. And he will not fail. The Lord who loves us is the Lord Almighty. We can't even begin to fathom the limitless, matchless power or the depth of the love he has for us. They are infinite. They are eternal. They are unchangeable. And we need to rest there. The final call of this passage in the final verse Verse 16 is to know that God has put his word in our mouths. And that means that we are to speak the word he has given. Look at verse 16 with And I have put my words in your mouth and covered you in the shadow of my hand. Establishing the heavens and laying the foundations of the earth and saying to Zion, You are my people. If God has put his word in our mouth, As we read it, as we think about it, as we hear it, then the call is to speak that word that He has given. The first person and the most frequent audience for the speaking of that word needs to be ourselves. When our fears and our anxieties are talking to us, we need to tell them who God is. That may be true, but my Father is the God who made the heavens and the earth. That may be true, but Jesus told me that the very hairs on my head are numbered. And if you don't have any of those, the numbers of your days are numbered. Nothing's gonna happen to us but what God allows and ordains for our good. So we need to we need to spend little Stop listening to our fears and anxieties and start speaking to them. Start speaking the word of God to them. The second thing we need to do is hear, we need to speak the word of God to one another. We need to remind each other of who we are. You are a child of God. You are loved by the God of the universe. You are an adopted heir of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. You do not need to be afraid. We need to bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. By speaking, one way we do that is by speaking God's word to each other and praying God's word over each other. Speaking God's word to each other and praying God's word over each other. And then we speak the word of God to the world. They may not want to hear it, but the gospel is for the whole world to hear, and it is good news, and it is the salvation they need, even if it's not what they want. I don't know if you've seen the Nanny McPhee movies. I've referred to them before. Love those movies. They're so great. She comes when she's needed, but not wanted. And then she leaves when she's wanted but no longer needed. So this is kind of the task of an evangelist. An evangelist, and all of us have that calling at one level or another, we are to speak the gospel that the world does not want to hear, but that they need to hear. And then we know we've done what God's called us to do when they they want that gospel. And they no longer need to hear it from us because now they can tell it to others. We need to rise above the chatter of our age with eternal truth spoken in love. Fear and anxiety are ultimately rooted in lies and in a self-centered insecurity. The antidote is a God-centered life that is anti- Anchored in gospel truth. So will we walk in fear or live by faith? Will we be driven by lies and insecurity, or will we be grounded in the truth of the strong, unshakable love of God? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you call us to listen to you. And then you tell us that you put your word in our mouths. As we listen to you and we receive your word. Give us the grace to live by your word and to speak your word to ourselves, to one another, and to the world, that we might be a people. whose steps are ordered by our good and gracious Father, and not by our fears, our anxieties, or the agenda of the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.