Good morning, good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are in Luke 14 verses 1 to 25 as we're continuing our journey through the Gospels. Today we're asking this question: Does God care more about how we feast or how we fast? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this day. Thank you for your word. Thank you for a new chapter in your word that we get to enter into together this morning We pray that you would bless us with understanding of your word, with love for you and your word and your people. Lord God, just grow us in our love for Jesus today. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Luke 14, 1-25. One Sabbath, when he went to dine at the house of a ruler of the Pharisees, they were watching him carefully. And behold, there was a man before him who had dropsy. And Jesus responded to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not? But they remained silent. Then he took him, and healed him, and sent him away. And he said to them, Which of you Having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day will not immediately pull him out. And they could not reply to these things. Now, he told a parable to those who were invited when he noticed how they chose the places of honor. Saying to them, When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not sit down in a place of honor, lest someone more distinguished than you be invited by him, and he who invited you both will come and say to you, give your place to this person, and you will begin with shame to take the lowest place. But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that when your host comes, he may say to you, friend, move up higher. Then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at table with you. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. He also said to the man who had invited him, When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors. lest they also invite you in return, and you be repaid. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind And you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just. When one of those who reclined at table with him heard these things, he said to him, Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God. But he said to him, A man once gave a great banquet and invited many. And at the time for the banquet he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, Come for everything is now ready. But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, I have bought a field, and I must go out and see it. Please have me excused And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Please have me excused. And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. So the servant came and reported these things to his master Then the master of the house became angry and said to his servant, Go out quickly to the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor and crippled and blind and lame, and the servant said, Sir What you have commanded has been done, and still there is more room. And the master said to the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges and compel people to come in. That my house may be filled. For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet. So, does God care more about how we feast or how we fast? Are there areas of our life that God cares more about than others? Sometimes we might be tempted to think that God cares more about our religious duties than our ordinary everyday lives, but in this view, God would care more about how we fast, since it is a religious activity. than about our feasting, which seems more worldly than less spiritual. Yet Jesus taught more about feasting than fasting The reason why our feasting matters as much as our fasting is that both reveal our hearts, although in different ways. Consider what Jesus says in today's passage about feasting. First of all, if you're invited to a feast, take the lowest place and not the highest. Why does such a thing matter to God? It reveals whether we think humbly or proudly of ourselves For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Second of all, when you give a feast, don't invite your rich relatives and friends But invite the poor and needy. Why? Because you should be focused on blessing others and not on whether or not you're going to get repaid. Trust God for that Third, when God invites you to his feast, his kingdom, don't make any excuses, but just come. Why? Well What could be more important than responding to God's invitation? So what parts of our lives matter to God? Only those parts that reveal whether we are proud? or humble, whether we are selfish and sir or serving, whether we are responding to God or making excuses. So which parts of our lives are those? Every part, of course. Every aspect of our lives is lived from the heart And is either done in a way that pleases God or in a way that pleases ourselves. We are continually either living for the Lord or being our own gods. That is worth thinking about. Alright, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 125. We're in these short psalms that are pilgrim songs that were sung by God's people on their pilgrimages up to Jerusalem. They're called the Songs of Ascent or the Songs of Going Up. Psalm 125 Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved but abides forever. As the mountains surround Jerusalem So the Lord surrounds his people from this time forth and forevermore for a scepter of wickedness, the scepter of wickedness. shall not rest on the land allotted to the righteous, lest the righteous stretch out their hands and do wrong. Do good, O Lord, to those who are good, and to those who are upright in their hearts but those who turn aside to their crooked ways The Lord will lead away with evildoers. Peace be upon Israel. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. May we live our lives as those who are aware that we are surrounded by you, your presence, your steadfast love, your goodness, your grace May we not be like proud, self-serving, self-promoting, self-protecting people who don't know you. Give us the grace to be humble, to respond to your word, to serve others, and to be content. And secure with where you have placed us. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. You've got one more this week. Hope you can join me for that tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord. So Sister Birds