Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Good to be with you again as we're in God's Word. We're in Luke 13, verses 22 to 35, the second half of Luke and 13, and we're asking this question, why did Jesus say that few would be saved? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your amazing grace that has saved us. Thank you for your word that teaches us your truth. Lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. Guide us to know you, to love you, and to walk with you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 13, 22 to 35. He went on his way through towns and villages, teaching and journeying toward Jerusalem. And someone said to him, Lord, will those who are saved be few? And he said to them, Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter, and will not be able. When once the master of the house has risen and shut the door, And you begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, open to us, then he will answer you. I do not know where you come from. Then you will begin to say, We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets. But he will say to you, I tell you, I do not know where you come from. Depart from me, all you workers of evil. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you yourselves cast out. And people will come from east and west and from north and south and recline at table in the kingdom of God. And behold, some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last. At that very hour, Pharisees came and said to him, Get away from here, for Herod wants to kill you And he said, Go and tell that fox, behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I finish my course. Nevertheless, I must go my way to-day and to-morrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet should perish away from Jerusalem O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it how often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing. Behold, Your house is forsaken, and I tell you, you will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. So why did Jesus say that few would be saved? Does it bother you that the door of salvation is narrow? Do you wonder why it is? that many will seek to enter and not be able? Why didn't Jesus say, here, hey, salvation's free, anyone's welcome to come in? Of course he could have, because salvation is free, and the door of mercy is open, and though the door is narrow, all are welcome to enter, and yet few do, though many seek to enter. Why? We are naturally disposed to not understand or really respond to the gospel of the kingdom. Jesus' further explanation of this truth in verses 25 to 30 tell us some sobering truths. Many people will know about Jesus, and many people will be religious. and yet not be in the kingdom when Jesus returns. They'll be shut out. And they'll hear Jesus say, I do not know where you come from. Why? Jesus doesn't fully or clearly explain why here, but we can see some evidence of why this is the case in what is said and what happens in this passage. Jesus says that many will come from far away and recline at table in the kingdom of God, and that some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last. What do we have here? To put it in a single word, presumption. The problem many people will face when Jesus comes is that they will suddenly realize a sobering truth. They presumed they were in the kingdom because they knew about Jesus and were, quote, religious But they didn't know Jesus at all. This is sadly the case for so many professing Christians and churchgoers, they don't really know who Jesus is, and they don't truly know him personally. They've not been changed by his grace. They are not in the kingdom, even though they are close. Never presume that you are a child of God just because you think you know the truth about Jesus and maybe you even go to church. So many people think that attending church doing good things, being a nice person, calling themselves a Christian, that these are all the same thing as being a child of God, as being in the kingdom of God, and they're not. Only saving faith in Jesus Christ personally matters. Only knowing him as Lord and Savior is Salvation only being his forever brings you into his kingdom. So do you know him. Do you trust him? Is he yours? And are you his? Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 124 as we continue in these songs of the sense. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, let Israel now say, if it had not been the Lord who was on our side when people rose up against us then they would have swallowed us up alive, when their anger was kindled against us, then the flood would have swept us away, the torrent would have gone over us, then over us would have gone the raging waters Blessed be the Lord, who has not given us as prey to their teeth. We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we have escaped. Our help. is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Again, today we have a great psalm to follow our gospel reading. Because it's only having the Lord on our side as our Lord, only in the name of the Lord revealed in Jesus Christ. Do we have salvation? Without it, we have no hope. Not being religious, not knowing about the Lord, but actually having the Lord on our side and putting our faith and our hope in the name of the Lord. Let's pray. Oh Lord God Almighty, you are good, wonderful Precious beyond all words. Be our God. Be our Savior, Lord Jesus. May we know you, may we trust you, may we rely on you, may we walk with you, may we be yours and you be ours forever. For you alone are salvation, Lord Jesus. We thank you for all that you've done to save us, to be on our side, to rescue us from the enemy's deadly plots. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much again for joining me as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today was a blessing to you. I hope you can join us again tomorrow. And as always, I sincerely hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.