Good morning and welcome to our 2026 devotional series through the Heidelberg Catechism. from guilt through grace to gratitude. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you could join us for the second day together as we continue unpacking the first question and answer of of the Heidelberg Catechism, probably the most famous catechism question and answer in the world. Maybe the second most famous after the the first question of the Westminster Shorter Catechism, which is what is the chief end of man? Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him. forever. After that one, this one is probably right up there with it. So let's pray and then we'll dig in together this morning. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gift that you have given to your church and to your people in the Heidelberg Catechism. It's a gift because it's faithful to Scripture and faithful to the gospel. We pray that you would write these truths on our hearts today that we might have eternal comfort in Christ alone. It's in his name we pray Amen. Alright, let's uh let's dig back into the first question of the Heidelberg Catechism. Um What is your only comfort in life and in death? That's our question. Here's the answer that I am not my own. but belong body and soul, both in life and in death, to my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. He has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood, and has set me free from all the power of the devil He also preserves me in such a way that without the will of my Heavenly Father, not a hair can fall from my head. Indeed, all things must work together for my salvation. Therefore, by his Holy Spirit He also assures me of eternal life and makes me heartily willing and ready from now on to live for him. So today we're focusing our attention on the second part of the first answer. He has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood and has set me free from all the power of the devil. You see, what stands between us and God, what prevents us from truly belonging to God as his own is our sin. God is too pure to look upon sin. He is holy, holy, holy. Sin cannot abide in his presence. He can't have fellowship with sin. But Jesus takes away all of our sin. When Adam and Eve sinned in the Garden of Eden, they chose to believe the word of the devil over the word of God. They literally said, this talking serpent who I just met seconds ago is more trustworthy than the God who created me. That's evil. That's diabolical. When they did that, they put themselves under the authority of the devil. Instead of being under God and over creation, They now put themselves under creation, under a created being, Satan. And since then, all people Born as the offspring of Adam and Eve, born in sin, have been born under the power of the devil. Let's take a look at what Scripture says. In 1 Peter 1, 18-19, Peter says, Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things, such as silver or gold. but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb, without blemish or spot. We were ransomed. Ransom is a price that's paid to set someone free from being a slave or from being a hostage or from being a prisoner. If someone is in bondage, held against their will, belonging to another, the price paid to set them free is a ransom. And we were ransomed from following the devil, following Satan, following the course of this world, following the desires of our own flesh, from the slavery that comes from all of that. We were ransomed with the blood of Christ, the precious blood of Christ, he who is the Lamb of God without blemish or spot. 1 John 3. 8 says, Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil. For the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. So when we are in a pattern of sinning, a pattern of rebellion against God, a pattern of seeking to live our own life our own way, we are following after the devil. We are of the devil. Jesus rebuked the religious leaders in his day and said, You are children of your father, the devil. Now that's shocking language, but that's what the Bible says is our natural condition. But the Son of God appeared to destroy the works of the devil, to set free those who were in bondage. This is what Jesus said in John 8, 34 to 36. Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever, the sun remains forever. So if the sun sets you free, you will be free indeed. That is good news. He sets us free. He purchases us by his blood. That's the ransom price. And then he sets us free from slavery to sin, from the tyranny of the devil. That is good news. I hope you know that truth. You've been purchased and you've been set free. You've been released from your captivity. There's freedom in belonging to Jesus because it means we don't belong to sin and Satan anymore. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the gift of your Son. Jesus, thank you for paying the ransom price, even your own precious blood, your life poured out on the cross. May we live in the freedom that you've given us. May we live as those who belong to you Who have been forgiven of all of our sins and who've been set free from the tyranny of the devil. May we live as free children of God. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Now we will respond to what we heard from God and His Word by worshiping together. Nothing but the blood of Jesus makes us clean and sets us free. Let's worship the God together. What can wash away nothing? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make Me holken nothing but the blood. Precious is the law that makes me wild. Oh you know nothing but the blood Jesus For my cleaning with my wings. Nothing but the blood of easy in the world. Nothing can force in the town, nothing but the blood of Jesus. God of good that I have done nothing but the blood of Jesus. No, no, no, I just hit the road, that's me, why? It is on my right shot, nothing like the blood sheep. That makes me write us to Era o multidão en la vida e filtra.