Okay, now comes the time in our worship service where we are going to turn our attention to God's word and to hearing from Him together. Today we are in Romans chapter 6 Verses 13 to 23 in our ongoing series in the book of Romans. Let's hear God's holy word. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies to make you obey its passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you Since you are not under law but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no means. Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one to whom you obey either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness. But thanks be to God that though you were once slaves to sin, you have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed. and having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms because of your natural limitations For just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and lawlessness, leading to more lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness, leading to sanctification. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness, but what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end eternal life. For the wages of sin is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ, our Lord. This is God's holy word. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father. You've spoken the truth to us. It's a truth that sets us free, even as your son told us. We will know the truth, and the truth will set us free But we need to respond to your truth with faith and love and obedience. And we need your Holy Spirit to work those things in our hearts, our minds, our lives, so that our response to your word would be wholehearted. And right. Empowered by your Spirit, applying to us the righteousness of Christ, setting us free from the slavery to sin in our everyday lives, and helping us to be better and better. Slaves to you, serving righteousness. Not under the law, but under grace. Teach us and grow us in these things today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Alright, well, we are in the sanctification part of the book of Romans, and it is a it is a very practical Section. We had no commands from God, no imperatives at all throughout the whole first six chapters and ten verses. But now we get lots and lots of imperatives. And they're coming at us rapid fire. We're told what we're not supposed to do. We're told what we are supposed to do. And it's important that we understand that everything that comes before All of the rich gospel truth about the grace of God is what underlies what comes now. This is what it means to live under grace and not under the law. Obedience is not legalism. So oftentimes in sort of our modern contemporary evangelical circles in America, especially where we love our freedom and our independence and our autonomy, we can sort of be deluded into thinking that obedience is legalism. But obedience is not legalism. In fact, the only obedience that really pleases God is the obedience that is under grace. By grace, through faith, and to the glory of God. And I thought about it, and I was really reminded of something I read this past week in my Bible reading. I was reading the book of Hosea. The Old Testament prophet. Now, lots of Old Testament prophets were given really difficult assignments from God, really difficult, challenging things they had to do. Jeremiah was not believed by anybody and was persecuted, thrown into a cistern, left to die at one point, wrote Lamentations because he had to stay and watch the city that he loved. get destroyed and burned with fire. That's hard. But I think of all the Old Testament prophets, I think Hosea had the most challenging assignment of any of them. Because he was told by God to marry a woman who would be unfaithful to him. Read the digging of Hosea, Hosea 1. 2. God says, go. Take to yourself a wife of whoredom, and have children of whoredom, for the land commits great whoredom by forsaking the Lord So not only was Hosea's wife Gomer unfaithful to him, but they had three children, two of whom, the second and third of whom were not Hosea's. They were children of Horedom. Although Hosea raised them. And at some point, if that all wasn't bad enough, Gomer leaves Hosea and ends up back in the slave market. She's up for sale. And God tells Hosea to go and buy her back. After Hosea buys his wife back, he tells her this. You must dwell as mine for many days. You shall not play the whore or belong to another man, so will I also be to you. That's Hosea 3. 3. Why would God call Hosea to do this? Because he's enacting out in a human level what is going on between God and his people. God wanted to demonstrate how much he loved his people, how much their unfaithfulness broke his heart, and what it would mean for him to redeem them back to himself. Notice when Hosea redeems his bride back to himself, he tells her she's going to be his and must be faithful to him, just as he is going to be faithful to her. Now no one in their right mind. Would think that Hosea at that point is being legalistic. No way. He's being incredibly gracious, unbelievably gracious. And the faithfulness that he calls for from Gomer is far less than what she owes him. He has saved her from the destructive consequences of her own sinful choices He has chosen to love her again. Of course, she's going to respond to him with love. And of course she owes him that loyalty. Well, God has redeemed us, not at a cost of fifteen shekels of silver and some barley, which is what Hosea had to pay for Gomer, but at the cost of his one and only son. When he sets us free from sin and death, forgiving our sins, freeing us from eternal condemnation, he does so redeeming us to himself. We became his and he became ours. We've been going through the Heidelberg Catechism on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday during the week, and the words of the first question and answer of the Heidelberg Catechism came to mind. I think they're really important. in this context. The first question, famous question, begins, what is your only comfort in life and in death? And the answer is that I am not my own. But belong body and soul in life and in death to my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. He has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood, and has set me free from the tyranny of the devil. Many people really like the idea of being forgiven for all our sin, washed clean by the blood of Jesus. We may even like the idea of being set free from the tyranny of the devil, but None of this happens apart from the foundational change in our identity and our ownership. I am not my own. But belong body and soul in life and in death to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ The only way to be free from sin's tyranny and the devil's cruel mastery is to belong entirely to Jesus Christ. And while this is an eternal spiritual reality for every believer, we do belong to Jesus Christ. It is also something that needs to get worked out in our daily lives if we're going to experience The freedom Christ died to give us. Now, point one here is neutrality is impossible. Most people hate the idea of being a slave to anyone They want to be independent. But that is a lie. Signing up to be a slave to someone else is so offensively un-American that it's probably even more offensive than telling people they're helpless and they cannot save themselves. Americans don't want to hear. We don't want to hear that we're helpless and we can't save ourselves. We're sort of a pull yourself up by your bootstraps and sort of get or done kind of a culture. And we certainly don't want to be a slave to anyone, right? We have a declaration of independence, right? And that's what we want. But Romans 5 to 6. Make it abundantly clear that there is no such thing as a spiritual Switzerland or a spiritual Lone Ranger. Neutrality is impossible. Independence is impossible. You are either in Adam or you are in Christ. If you are in Adam, you are an heir of his sin and condemnation. If you are in Christ, you are an heir of His righteousness and salvation. You're under one or the other. Today, in Romans 6, it adds another clear distinction. You are either under law or you are under grace. Romans 2-3 made it very clear that all people by nature are condemned justly by God's law. That's what it means to be under God's law is to be condemned. Some people have the written law of God in the Bible, but others have the law of God written on their hearts, and their conscience bears witness against them. In other words, God's moral law is truly universal. Everyone has a sense of right and wrong, and many people have access to the written Word of God in the Bible. And to be under the law is to be condemned because what the law tells us is that we fall short of God's holy standard According to Romans 6, also, to be under the law is to be a slave to sin. Now we might pause at that and think. Doesn't that seem like a contradiction? You're under the law of God, and that means that you are a slave to sin. In our minds, law and sin are opposites. But that's not actually how it works. You see, if you're in Adam, the defining characteristic of that is that you are striving for autonomy. You're striving for self-rule. If you're in Adam, you want to be accepted by God for who you are. And this could mean that you are dutifully religious. Where it could mean that you're rebellious, right, and lawless. And and what's interesting is I've been reading this book called The Whole Christ by Sinclair Ferguson. It's a wonderful book that deals with with the the twin troubles that often come up in the Christian life of either legalism or lawlessness. And so you can think, for those who are outside of Christ, you can either be legalistic, like scrupulously religious. Think about your devout religious people who don't really know the Lord. They might be devout in Hinduism or Buddhism or Islam or Judaism or in forms of Christianity, but not really know the Lord. And then think about your rebels, the people who are just like, I'm gonna live for myself, you know, I'm gonna live for pleasure, you know, um And they're actually the same. Because in both cases what they're trying to do is they're trying to stand on their own two feet and claim ownership of their own lives and live for themselves by themselves. In other words, under the law you're saying to God, I'm going to be accepted for what I've done. But the Bible tells us that's not possible. Your own obedience can't save you. And the fact that you're trying to earn What is impossible means that you're in bondage to sin and in deep rebellion against God because God has sent his son to be your Savior, your righteousness, your substitute And you're continuing to try to earn what God has already freely given. 1 Corinthians 15, 56 puts it this way: the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. The power of sin is the law, because the law condemns all those who sin. And so it holds people in sin and under condemnation. And it really, if you're under the law and you're in sin, the harder you try and the more you realize you fail, the more you can resent God and even hate God. That was Martin Luther's situation before he became born again before he he knew the Lord, before he was saved, and he trul s truly saw the truth of the gospel, he said he hated God because he was under the law. and trying so hard to please God by the standards of the law and couldn't do it. So to be under the law is indeed to be a slave to sin. The only way To break free from that cycle is by grace being redeemed. And when we're redeemed by grace, we are then made a slave to God. in Jesus Christ. That's actually what it means to be redeemed. It's to be bought out of the tyranny of sin and set free to serve God and His will for your life. It's like Hosea going to the slave market, seeing Gomer for sale, buying her He's redeeming her out of slavery. It was an awful life to be a slave or slave in that kind of set situation, terrible life. So he sets her free from that, but to bring her home to himself. That's what God does to redeem is to bring home to God. And God is our master. True Christian freedom is what is described here in Romans 6. It's not living for myself and doing whatever I want. It's being set free from being a slave to sin and being set free to obey God. and to receive the gift of eternal life as one who's been redeemed. So we're going to contrast here the slavery to sin and the slavery to God that are laid out here for us in this passage in Romans 6. So, first of all, slavery to sin. This is our second main point. Sin makes false promises of freedom and pleasure, but it leads to shame and death If you want to know what serving sin is really like, you've got to go back to the beginning. All the way back to the very beginning to the Garden of Eden, where all this mess started in the first place. Satan made Adam and Eve false promises that left them fallen, condemned, and filled with shame, alienated from God and alienated from one another. Sure, sin has its temporary pleasures. Right? People don't sin because it's painful. People sin because it's fun. But it's a fleeting pleasure. It's how Hebrews 11:25 puts it, the fleeting pleasures of sin. And in place of that temporary pleasure, what else does sin bring? Well, sin makes promises that it can't keep and it has no intention of keeping. What does sin promise us? Sin promises us freedom, joy, and life. What does it actually bring? It brings bondage, sorrow, and the shame of regret, and death That's what sin does. And so Paul tells us when we present our members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, it only leads to more lawlessness. Reminding these Roman believers of their past before they knew Christ, he says in verses 20 and 21, when you were slaves of sin, You were free in regard to righteousness, but what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? For those things they end in death. When Adam and Eve sinned, their eyes were opened. And they did know things that they didn't know before, just like Satan had said, but it was different from what they expected. Rather than becoming somehow more godlike, they saw their own nakedness and they were ashamed. The first thing they experienced was shame. They sewed fig leaves together for themselves, hiding their bodies from each other as husband and wife, and then even hiding from God. And when God called to Adam, what did he do? He blamed Eve for his sin. Just the chapter prior in Genesis chapter 2, Adam was rejoicing when he saw Eve, and he said, This at last is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, for she was taken out of man. He was so thankful. And now in chapter 3, he says, This woman, whom you put here with me, she ate of the fruit, and she gave it to me, and I ate. Shame? Hiding from one another? Hiding from God. Blaming others. This is the characteristic way of sin. From the Garden of Eden and ever since. It's still what sin does in our lives today. And so the question Paul is asking is really very simple and profound. Why would anyone who has been set free from such tyranny ever willingly suggest themselves subject themselves to sin's mastery again If you have a freedom, if you have an escape from that, from that cycle of shame, hiding, blaming. Why go back under it? And so Paul gives us two direct negative commands regarding the mastery of sin. He says, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body to make you obey its passions. That's the first command. And the second is do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness. So the first one is a ruling thing. Don't put yourself under the dominion of sin so that you obey it. And the second is a very practical thing. Don't take the members of your body And offer them up to sin as instruments of unrighteousness. Now we need to be clear about what Paul is saying and isn't saying here. Paul is not saying that we won't ever sin. This is not a call for absolute perfectionism. In two weeks' time, we'll be in the second half of Romans 7, and we'll see Paul's own ongoing struggle against sin, which is characteristic of every believer. But here's a big difference. If you're struggling against sin that you hate, and you're struggling to obey God whom you love, that is very, very different. From willfully allowing sin to reign in you and willingly submitting to its passions, presenting to sin the members of your body as instruments for unrighteousness. There's a consciousness, there's a willfulness that's expressed here that Paul is saying is absolutely unthinkable. It's forbidden for a redeemed child of God. to to say to sin, I want you to reign over me. I want to serve you. If we understand how good God is, and we understand how truly evil sin is, The choice of masters should be very obvious. And so we come to our third point, slavery to God. If we want to live as God intends, we need to freely surrender ourselves to be slaves to righteousness. If we want to live the life that God has for us, we can't do so on our own. We can't do it in our own strength. We can't do it according to our own wisdom. We need to willingly and freely put ourselves under the mastery of King Jesus. The message here is not try harder, do better. The message here is Surrender to God. Not my will, but yours be done. Offer yourselves to God. Serve the Lord. In his grace. So that needs to be our prayer. Our prayer needs to be, not my will, but yours be done. Not my will, but yours be done. Now I know what some of you are tempted to think at this point. If I give up all of my own selfish will, and I say to God, not my will but yours be done, that's going to take all the fun out of life. Is that what you think? Where do you think all the good pleasures that you enjoy in life ultimately come from? Satan doesn't invent any pleasure. Satan doesn't want you to really have fun. He doesn't delight in seeing you smile and be happy No. God does. Every pleasure that you enjoy in life, whether it's a good hot cup of coffee or a strong and loving marriage or time with your children or the beauty of a snowfall or the peace of conscience of knowing that you're forgiven Or enjoying a walk on the beach, or really delicious food. All of these things are gifts from God. And so it's not boring. It's freedom. Living for righteousness doesn't mean living in freedom. Sanctification Growing in holiness does not suck the joy out of life. On the contrary, when it's empowered by grace, when it's flowing from God's steadfast love for us, it puts joy into our lives. Jesus contrasted himself with Satan in John 10. 10. And he said this. He said, the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. You see, God loves us perfectly and eternally. His love motivated him to send his son who laid down his life to free us. God created us. He knows far better than we do what is truly best for us. God is perfect in wisdom, and he understands what makes for a good life, for a truly good life We can see another key difference between sin as a master and God as our master in the very end of our passage today, in Romans 6. 23. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. If you go to work, you're paid in wages You offer yourself up to serve sin. Sin will pay you in wages. Those wages are death. It's what you're going to earn from the master of sin. Death. But when we bow the knee to the Lord, we are given the free gift. of eternal life. It's not wages because we can't earn it. We could never earn it. It's given to us freely in Jesus Christ our Lord. And this is sort of at the end of this passage Paul's little bow on the end of it to say, serving God is just so much better than serving sin. Remember that God is love. And that his will for us is that we should love him and love others. That's ultimately what it comes down to. He doesn't want us to be selfish. He doesn't want us to be self-serving, petty, small-minded. Vengeful, vindictive, or greedy. He wants us to love. He wants us to love him, and he wants us to love others. Living a life of love for God and others is not boring. Living life for yourself is not only evil and shameful, but if you've done it for any period of time, you know it's also deeply unsatisfying to your soul Because we are created in the image of God, living a life of love, imaging the God who is love, is actually the most fulfilling life that we can live But how do we do this? Well, Paul gave us two negative commands regarding sin. Do not let sin reign in your mortal bodies, and do not offer your members to sin as instruments of righteousness. What we're called to positively is the opposite of these. Present yourselves to God, verse 13, as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. Then later, 17 and 18, Paul says, Thanks be to God. That you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed And having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. So we are to become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which we were committed. If we're taught sound gospel doctrine from God's Word, we need to not just give it lip service, but we need to actually obey it from the heart. Think about it this way. If we say Jesus is Lord, But then we live as if Jesus is irrelevant to our lives. Do we really believe that he is Lord? Or if we say, Jesus, save me from my sins, but then we go on living in sin and serving sin just like we did before Jesus saved us. How credible is our testimony that he has saved us? It turns out that what we really believe is not measured best by what we say. But by what we willingly and freely do. It's actions, not words, that matter the most. In other words, our master is not the one we say is our master, but is the one we love in our hearts. And we obey from the heart. But I think we can really understand that this is true and still be wondering how Well, our conclusion is that in the end, you serve what you love. And so, as we stoke the fires of our love for God through the means of grace, We progressively grow in dying to sin and living to righteousness. From the heart is the key here. Paul says that you've been obedient from the heart to the form of doctrine. that you've received. God is pleased with and desires obedience from the heart. He's not pleased with external rule keeping. That comes out of guilt or a begrudging sense of obligation. Gotta get up and read my Bible because I gotta check off the box. Now sometimes You have to get up and read your Bible because you got to check off the box. That's sometimes how it works, but that's not ultimately the goal. The goal is I love God. I want to hear from God, and so I'm going to discipline myself to get up in the morning and read the Bible because I love God and because I want to hear from His Word. You think about it in a marriage. There are some times in a marriage where you have to do something for your spouse that you don't really like doing, it's hard to do, it's inconvenient to do, but you do it because you love your spouse. And you're not just doing it out of a sense of duty and obligation. Ideally, you should be doing it out of love. And if you're doing it out of love, it becomes even joyful in menial service. So, how do we get our hearts to a place where our service to God flows freely from the heart? Well, that is where the means of grace come in. Reading our Bibles, listening to good preaching, praying alone and with others, worshiping God with His people, taking the Lord's Supper. All of these means of grace, they grow our hearts. Stoking the fires of our love for God. Grow our hearts. Um, I love Dr. Seuss and I love the Grinch. Howley Grinch stole Christmas. Wonderful. Remember what the Grinch's problem was? His whole problem was that his heart was too small, right? It was two sizes too small. And then what happened? when he decided to do what was right, right? And he he heard the Who's singing They were celebrating Christmas even without all the Christmas stuff, and so he decides to give it back to them. What happened to him? His heart grew three sizes that day. And that's how he loved Christmas and he kept it all year long and he loved the people of Hooville and they came to love him because his heart grew three sizes that day. We need to look at the means of grace as a way of growing our heart for God. It's not just our hearts, of course, our our minds. The means of grace are means. That God uses to deepen our knowledge of God in our minds, to strengthen our grasp on the gospel, and to free us from sin's icy grip. on our cold, shrunken hearts that would grow and that would warmly serve the Lord. So we can serve the Lord from the heart. All of this, Paul says, leads to sanctification. He tells us that twice in verse 19 and verse 22. He says, all of this leads to sanctification. I've used that word a few times now. What is this big word? Sanctification. Could be like a spelling B word. It's got a lot of letters in it. It's holiness. And holiness means being set apart by God and for God. It means we're special. It means we're different. It means we belong to God and not to the world. We belong to God and not to our flesh. We belong to God and not to Satan. In a sense, when we are saved, that sanctification is accomplished. It's finished. Jesus' sacrifice on the cross sanctifies us for all time. When we come to faith in Christ and we are justified, we are adopted as a child of God, we are sanctified. Positionally, we are never going to not be God's own children once we've become his children. And yet, there's also a need to grow in the practice of holiness in our experience of sanctification. So there's what we call positional sanctification or definitive sanctification. It's that change in identity I am not my own. I belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. I am not lost in sin. I am a child of God by grace. I am not under condemnation. I am justified and forgiven through the blood of Jesus Christ shed on my behalf. That is, once for all. That is eternal and fixed in the heavens. However, we still sin. And We have to grow. We're like little babies. There's not much strength there. There's not much ability there And so we have to grow, we need to grow in the practice of holiness in our lives. That's what we call progressive sanctification or growth in holiness It's the living out of what God has done in us in Christ. Philippians 2. 13 says, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who works in you, both to will and to do, for his good purpose. That's a good verse on sanctification. God's worked in us, giving us both the desire and the ability to do according to his good purpose. Now we need to work that out in our lives. And that does involve our minds and our hearts and our hands. It's a very simple way to think about it. It's true. Our minds need to grow In grasping the truth. So we need to study. We need to study God's Word. Study the truth of God's Word. Our hearts need to warm to God's love. So we need to pray and worship. and fellowship and that warms our hearts. And then our our hands need to grow adept at doing God's will. So we need to serve. We need to get to work, doing what God has given us to do in acts of love. In deeds of faith. We don't do it alone. Sanctification is the work of the Holy Spirit, but it's also a group project. Any of you love group projects in school No, probably not, right? Because what happens in a group project? One or two people in the group do all the work and the rest of the group kind of rides along, uh, you know. gets the grade they didn't even work for. So this isn't like that. This is we grow as we encourage one another and build one another up. We grow as we invest in others. In a very practical sense, right? Some of the best learning I've done has been when I've been preparing to teach others Now not all people are teachers, but even even the simple thing, parents, being able to explain the sermon to your own kids in simple language that they might understand. Take that challenge. We give you a sermon follow-up guide just about every week at Forest Hill. Take it home and try to translate it into language that your kids would understand. Talk about it over the Sunday dinner table. That's going to strengthen your own understanding of the sermon as you invest in the lives of your kids. If you get a chance to teach Sunday school, take it If you get a chance to serve in junior church, take it, because as you teach others, you're strengthened in your understanding of the gospel and of biblical truth yourself. And then we love. Our love for God grows as we love and encourage one another. Pray for one another. Send one another notes of encouragement. Serve one another in love. This is a group project. Well, in a group project, in the progress of sanctification, how do we know if we're making progress? How can we know how we're doing? Well we gotta have a goal in mind, right? What's the goal? A lot of times people have just a bizarre understanding of They might think the goal is that I will never sin again. Ultimately, yes, that's true. But there's a more positive goal. It's an entirely negative goal, right? And it's kind of a perfectionistic goal too. And in this life it's not entirely realistic because repenting of sin and and spiritual growth is sometimes like playing whack-a-mole and you're playing the whack-a-mole and the sin keeps popping up. You gotta keep whacking it. But it's a never ending process. So so don't think negatively and perfectionistically. Really, really the goal is that we grow to be more like Jesus. We've been predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. That's what Romans 8 tells us. Oh, and by the way, as a sneak preview, Romans 8 is going to hold a lot of the keys. to what we're dealing with in this whole sanctification. Romans 6, 7, and 8 go together as the unit in Romans on sanctification. And in 6 we're just kind of getting into these concepts. And it's going to be unfolded for us for weeks to come. But we're growing to be more like Christ. So the progress can be slow. It's always incomplete in this life. But the good news is it is a work of the Holy Spirit. It is God's project. I said it's a group project, but it's really God who's the one who's working in us and through us. And this is the promise he's given us in Philippians 1. 6. He who began a good work in you will be faithful to complete it until the day of Christ Jesus. So God's at work to grow you in love, to make you more like Jesus. If you think that's boring, then I'm sorry, you don't know Jesus. But if you think it's exciting, if you think it's exciting and a little overwhelming, then you're starting to get it. And what we're called to today is to acknowledge the right master, bow under the service of the right king. Sin has had its time. Time to kick it to the curb and say no. God rules over us and grows us in righteousness for his glory in our lives Let's bow the knee to him. Let's say Jesus is Lord from the heart. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for freeing us from the tyranny of the devil, from the dominion of sin and darkness. But you brought us out of that dominion to bring us into the kingdom of your Son, the Son of righteousness, the one who rules and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit forever, one God. We want to bow the knee to you from the heart. We want to offer ourselves to you from the heart. We want to say, Not my will but yours be done. Grow us in love. Grow us in Christ-likeness, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's God's word, and we're going to respond now to God's word by singing an appropriate hymn of dedication, I am thine, O Lord. I have heard thy voice, let's sing together