Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, our final day of week 21. Brings us to the end of Luke 3, and we'll be looking at verses 23 to 38, and we're going to be asking why is it that Luke's genealogy is different from Matthew's? Or another question, who was Joseph's father? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It's perfect, it's living, it's active. It's truth from you, and it reveals your Son to our hearts as we believe and receive your word by faith. Holy Spirit, please write this word on our hearts today. In Jesus' name. Amen. The genealogy of Jesus Christ. Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the son, as was supposed, of Joseph. the son of Heli, the son of Mathet, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jenni, the son of Joseph, the son of Matathias, the son of Amos The son of Nahum, the son of Elthli, the son of Nagai, the son of Maath, the son of Matathias, the son of Semain. The son of Joseph, the son of Joda, the son of Jonan, the son of Ray Retha, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri. The son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Kosim, the son of Elmadam, the son of Ur, the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Joram, the son of Mathet, the son Blevi The son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonah, the son of Eliakim, the son of Meliah, the son of Menah, the son of Matitha, the son of Doez Nope, sorry, the son of Nathan, the son of David, the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Selah, the son of Nashon, the son of Aminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arnie The son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Tirah, the son of Nahor. the son of Sirug, the son of Ryu, the son of Pelag, the son of Eber, the son of Sheila, the son of Canaan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamac The son of Bethuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalileel, the son of Canaan, the son of Enos, the son of Seth. The Son of Adam, the Son of God. So today we're looking at one of the most famous Bible contradictions, so-called, that critics have pointed out to show the flaws of the Bible. Matthew and Luke each trace the genealogy of Joseph, Luke's legal earthly father, differently. So why do these two Gospels have two different conflicting genealogies Matthew's genealogy of Jesus begins with Abraham and works his way down to David and then down to Joseph, showing how Jesus' birth was the fulfillment of the covenant promise made to Abraham and to David. Luke's genealogy starts with Joseph and traces backward, going back to David and then back to Abraham, but then not stopping until it goes all the way back to Adam, who is the Son of God. So Luke traces his genealogy back to Adam because his is a more universal gospel, not just aimed at a Jewish audience like Matthew is, but at a Gentile-Greek audience predominantly But what's the real problem? The real problem comes with this question, who is Joseph's father? Matthew says that Joseph was the son of Jacob, and traces through that line. Luke says he was the son of Heli, and traces through that line. So who's right? Joseph didn't have two dads, did he? Well, you may have heard some people say that Luke's genealogy traces the lineage of Mary, and that the son of Heli could mean the son-in-law. But that's actually not a convincing argument because that's not how genealogies work. I actually think the solution is clear and that we have a whole book in the Bible that explains to us how to resolve this, the book of Ruth. In addition to Ruth, the story of Judah and Tamar help us too. In the ancient world, having a male heir was essential to passing along your family's inheritance. Thus a man who died without a son needed help to produce an heir. His wife would be given in marriage to his brother, or as in Olimelech's case in Ruth, if he had no brother or a close relative to a kinsman redeemer. The first son to be born from this new marriage would legally be the heir and descendant of the dead husband while being biologically the child of the new husband. Thus he would have two fathers the one whose heir he was legally and the one whose son he was biologically. This is called a Levite marriage Levite marriages were common enough that we have at least two clear examples in Jesus' genealogy, besides in the case of Joseph. Judah and Tamar had Perez and Zerah, and in Matthew's genealogy they are listed as the sons of Judah. Legally, however, Perez and Zerah were actually the sons of Ur, Judah's firstborn son. who died without a son. Likewise in Ruth, Boaz's firstborn Obed was legally the son and heir of Elimelech, who had been Noah, Naomi's husband, and Ruth's father-in-law. who lost his male heirs when both of his sons died. So since Elimelech himself was dead and had no brother, a kinsman redeemer had to be found to enter into the Levright marriage. And so if you had asked Who is Obed's father? Well, biologically it was Boaz, but legally, in terms of inheritance, it was Elimelech. Are you confused? Well, it's really very simple. In the ancient world, it would not have been strange for a man to have two fathers, his biological father who raised him, and his legal father whose heir and legal descendant he was. And in this case, Jacob was probably the biological father of Joseph, while Heli was likely his legal father, having died without an heir Would it make sense for Joseph to have two fathers, since he would also raise a son who would have two fathers Joseph was Jesus' legal earthly father, but he was not his biological father. God was the true and heavenly father of Jesus So perhaps Joseph would have had some insight into raising someone else's son if he had had that experience himself growing up. More importantly, we can see that God's word does not contradict itself. Every apparent contradiction has a resolution upon further study. Now let's turn our attention to Psalm 106. Psalm one o six, praise the Lord. O, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Who can utter the mighty deeds of the Lord or declare all his praise? Blessed are they who observe justice, who do righteousness at all times. Remember me, O Lord, when you show favor to your people. Help me when you save them, that I may look upon the prosperity of your chosen ones, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance. Both we and our fathers have sinned. We have committed iniquity. We have done wickedness. Our fathers, when they were in Egypt, did not consider your wondrous works They did not remember the abundance of your steadfast love, but rebelled by the sea, at the Red Sea Yet he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make known his mighty power. He rebuked the Red Sea, and it became dry. And he led them through the deep as through a desert So he saved them from the hand of the foe and redeemed them from the power of the enemy, and the waters covered their adversaries. Not one of them was left Then they believed his words. They sang his praise. But they soon forgot his works. They did not wait for his counsel. But they had a wanton craving in the wilderness and put God to the test in the desert. He gave them what they asked for, but sent a wasting disease among them. When men in the camp were jealous of Moses and Aaron, the holy one of the Lord, the earth opened and swallowed up Daphen and covered the company of Abiram. Fire also broke out in their company. The flame burned up the wicked. They made a calf in Horeb. and worshipped a metal image. They exchanged the glory of God for the image of an ox that eats grass. They forgot their Savior, who had done great things in Egypt. wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome deeds by the Red Sea. Therefore he said he would destroy them. Had not Moses, his chosen one, stood in the breach before him to turn away his wrath from destroying them Then they despised the pleasant land, having no faith in his promise. They murmured in their tents and did not obey the voice of the Lord. Then he raised his hand and swore to them that he would make them fall in the wilderness, and would make their offspring fall among the nations, scattering them among the lands. Then they yoked themselves to the Baal of Peor, and ate sacrifices offered to the dead. They provoked the Lord to anger with their deeds, and a plague broke out among them. Then Phineas stood up and intervened, and the plague was stayed. And that was counted to him as righteousness, from generation to generation forever. They angered him At the waters of Meribah, and it went ill with Moses on their account, for they made his spirit bitter, and he spoke rashly with his lips. They did not destroy the peoples, as the Lord commanded them. But they mixed with the nations and learned to do as they did. They served their idols, which became a snare to them. They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons. They poured out innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan, and the land was polluted with blood. Thus they became unclean by their acts, and plagued the whore in their deeds. Then the anger of the Lord was kindled against his people, and he abhorred his heritage He gave them into the hand of the nations, so that those who hated them ruled over them, their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their power. Many times he delivered them but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low through their iniquity. Nevertheless, he looked upon their distress when he heard their cry. For their sake he remembered his covenant and relented according to the abundance of his steadfast love. He caused them to be pitied. by all those who held them captive. Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from among the nations. that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting, and let all the people say, Amen. Praise. Well today I'm again going to share with you the written out prayer that I wrote based upon Psalm 106, that if you receive the emails in the morning, you receive these. along with the devotional. We won't be doing this every day, but I think with these longer historical psalms, it can be a little bit challenging to think, how do we pray this to the Lord if we should be praying the Psalms to deepen our prayer lives? So let's pray. We praise you, O Lord. We give thanks to you, Lord, for you are good, for your steadfast love endures forever. Who can utter all your mighty deeds, O Lord, or declare all your praise? You bless those who observe justice and who do righteousness at all times. Remember me, O Lord, when you show favor to your people. Help me when you save them that I may look upon the prosperity of your chosen ones, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance. Both we and our fathers have sinned. We have committed iniquity. We have done wickedness Our fathers did not consider your wondrous works. They did not remember the abundance of your steadfast love, but they rebelled against you in many ways. Neglecting your gospel, neglecting the Great Commission, engaging in racism and arrogance, disregarding the poor, yet you save them for your name's sake, that you might make known your mighty power. Save us, O Lord our God. and gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting, and let all the people say amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Thank you so much again for joining me as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels I hope today was a blessing to you. I hope you can join us next week as we continue through Luke with Luke 4. Have a blessed day in the Lord.