Are continuing from Luke chapter one, I'm going to be reading verses five through twenty-five. And then 57 through 66, we'll also be looking at the end of the chapter, Zechariah's prophecy, but we've read that already in the service. Hear God's word. In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah of the division of Abijah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and both were advanced in years Now, while he was serving as priest before God when the division when his division was on duty, according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by Lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense. And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard. And your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth. For he will be great before the Lord, and he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. And he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared. And Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years. And the angel answered him, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news. And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time. And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple. And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them. And they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained mute. And when his time of service was ended, he went to his hall. After these days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying, Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me, to take away my reproach among the people. Then over in verse 57, the birth of John the Baptist, now the time came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son. And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown great mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her. And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child And they would have called him Zechariah after his father, but his mother answered, no, he shall be called John. And they said to her, None of your relatives is called by this name. And they made signs to his father, inquiring what he wanted him to be called. And he answered for a writing, he asked for a writing tablet and wrote, his name is John. And they all wondered. And immediately his mouth was open, and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, blessing God. And fear came on all their neighbors. And all these things were talked about through all the hill country of Judea. And all who heard them laid them upon the up in their hearts, saying, What then will this child be? For the hand of the Lord was with him Father, we pray as we consider this wonderful true story of Zechariah and Elizabeth. Help us not only to understand your word, but to apply it to our own hearts and lives. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. It's December and many of us are starting to prepare, getting ready for Christmas. Maybe a Christmas tree, other decorations, Christmas music piped into our homes, shopping, Christmas cookies, Christmas cards. Point set is time gets a little closer, planning the Christmas dinner, a lot more. Enjoy it. Enjoy your getting ready for Christmas The title of our message this morning in our study of Luke chapter 1 is not getting ready for Christmas, but Getting Ready for Jesus. And I'm entitled to Phil Reiken in his commentary on Luke for this title. We'll be looking specifically at Zechariah and Elizabeth in Luke chapter 1. As as he was instructed by the Lord, by the angel of the Lord, to get ready for Jesus. Here's the outline that's in your bulletin. Let me just run through it quickly. Our first point, the birth of John the Baptist foretold. This is the passage that I just read. We'll look at Zechariah and Elizabeth, who they were. Then the angel of the Lord, and we learn in verse 19 that he he identified himself as Gabriel. Zechariah's unbelief and what happened to him as a result. And then finally, Elizabeth's testimony in verses 24 and 25, which I've called taking God at His Word. Then we flip over to verse 57. Luke 1, by the way, is a long chapter, 80 verses. It's the longest chapter in the New Testament. The Old Testament you have Psalm 119 and a couple of other chapters that are a little over 80 verses, but Luke 1 is the longest chapter, so we're not going to study all 80 verses this morning. But we'll go over to verse 57 and read about John's actual birth and how they named him, how they came about to name him. And then finally, the passage that was read in the earlier part of our service by Sean, Zechariah's prophecy. As we approach a passage of Scripture like this, and I always like to preach expositionally, going through the Bible verse by verse, We always like to ask ourselves, how does this apply to me? What is the Lord saying to me from the true story of Zechariah and Elizabeth here in Luke chapter 1? And the truth is, there's nothing in Scripture that suggests that we need to celebrate a special day for Jesus' birth. December 25th isn't in the Bible. But it is a long-standing church tradition, not necessarily wrong, but definitely not, thus saith the Lord. In fact, if anything, getting ready for Jesus might be uh might relate to getting ready for his second coming. But most of us do celebrate Christmas, and that's okay And many of us will spend a lot of time in the next three weeks getting ready for Christmas. What I want to encourage you this morning, or how I want to encourage you, is to get ready for Jesus. Think about him, who he is, why he came, and your relationship to him Let's pray. Lord, help us as we study your word about Zechariah and Elizabeth this morning, getting ready for Jesus. Help us to have our hearts and minds open to Him In Jesus' name, amen. Letter A, the birth of John the Baptist foretold. Opening verses introduce us to a couple, an older, godly couple, Zechariah and Elizabeth. The days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah. of the division of Abijah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. Actually the first four verses of Luke are are very important. We don't have time to study them this morning. But Luke, they tell us that Luke was a very careful and accurate historian. That's why we find a lot of names and places in Luke's gospel. And verse 4 tells us that he wrote to Theophilus, but it also applies to us, that you may have certainty concerning the things you have been taught. In other words, the things that we're going to read about Zechariah and Elizabeth, John the Baptist, leading up to Jesus and his virgin birth, Mary and Joseph. Everything here happened in time and space. These are real historical events. And Luke is writing that we might have the certainty concerning these things. Okay, let's get back to Zechariah and Elizabeth. Zechariah was a priest. Elizabeth also was from a priestly line. They were righteous and blameless, it tells us. That doesn't mean they were without sin But we could call them godly Old Testament believers. They loved the Lord. They believed in His promised Messiah. And incidentally, there were other godly believers when Jesus was born. We read a lot through the New Testament, Jesus coming down on hypocrites and Pharisees and all kinds of things But there were those who loved the Lord. Zechariah and Elizabeth, John the Baptist, Joseph and Mary. After Jesus' birth, we read of a man named Simeon and a woman named Anna These were people that love the Lord. I like to think maybe maybe the shepherds. In fact, uh some of the shepherds may have been godly believers just like Zechariah and Elizabeth. Others may have been hardened farm hands, kind of tough as nails. What we do know is that God opened their hearts. When the angel appeared to the shepherds, God opened their hearts and all of them uh worship the Lord. Same thing with the wise men. So there were godly old Old Testament believers. Verse 7 But they had no child because Elizabeth was barren and both were advanced in years. How old were they were they? I don't know. I'd like to think they were at least as old as my wife and I. In any case, way past childbearing age. Zechariah was a priest. Um while he was serving as a priest before God, his division was on duty. According to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by Lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. That's the that would be in the holy place, not the holy of holies where the high priest went once a year, but the holy place. And actually, um historical accounts tell us that a priest only had this privilege one time in their life. So this was a once-in-a-lifetime experience for Zechariah and this was his day So what happened? Verse 10, the whole multitude of the people were praying outside. Verse 11, and there appeared to him As he's in the holy place offering incense to the Lord, there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. Wow. An angel of the Lord. Verse 19, the angel identifies himself as Gabriel, the same angel Who also appeared to Mary six months later to tell her that even though she was a virgin, she would be the mother of Jesus, the Messiah. And Zechariah was troubled. He was scared. You and I would have been scared too, for an angel of the Lord to appear to it. The shepherds were scared. Remember that? You'll see that in Luke chapter 2 that I I think Pastor Ben Bemel will be getting to in the next couple of weeks. Um in fact, most of the times in Scripture, uh when s when angels or the angel of the Lord appears, people were scared And that's not surprising because it was not a common thing. It was supernatural, very real, but like miracles outside of our understanding of this natural world. So what did the angel of the angel Gabriel say to Zechariah? 13. The angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great before the Lord. There's more, but just notice the end of verse 17. Because it goes back to our theme, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared, to get people ready for Jesus, getting ready for Jesus. John the Baptist would do that. Zechariah's unbelief. What happened next? The angel told him they were going to have a son. They were elderly. Zach and Elizabeth were elderly. And the angel said, You're going to have a son. His name's going to be John. Verse 18, Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man and my wife has advanced in years and kind of implied, I have a hard time believing you, Mr. Gabriel. I can I can picture myself. The angel comes to me and Paul, you and Kathy are going to have a child. Oh no, we're not. We just had a great grandchild Seven months old yesterday, in fact some of you know Autumn and Corey. Autumn Autumn Top, her name is now it was Autumn Foster, uh, is our granddaughter. And she and her husband Corey had a had a little baby who Halley, who was seven months old yesterday. So that's kind of like the angel coming to Kathy and me and saying, No, no, no, no, no. Zech Zechariah, I like Zechariah. I don't want to be too hard on him But there were severe consequences. Zechariah was a godly believer. He didn't lose his salvation or anything. But this one instance He flat out didn't believe the Lord. And there were consequences. There were very severe consequences. He wasn't able to speak. In fact, verse 62 suggests maybe he was deaf as well. for the next nine months. We really need to take God at His Word. And the last couple verses of this section tell us that Elizabeth did take God. at his word. After these days, his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me to take away my reproach among people. Elizabeth believed. She took God at his word. We need to take God at His word too. Probably not an angel speaking to us. But God speaks to us, this is God's word. God speaks to us through his through his word, the Bible. We need to take him at his word. For example, when God says that Jesus came and died and rose again so that our sins might be forgiven if we believe in him, believe it. Believe it. uh take God at his word. Now let's flip over a page to 57, the birth of John the Baptist, the baby is born. A boy is born, all her friends, all Elizabeth's friends and family were excited for her, knowing it was of the Lord, they rejoice with her. Now when they tried to tell her that and Zechariah what they should name him, mm, they they were going a little too far then. But uh but rejoicing with her at the birth of her son was wonderful And on the eighth day, time for circumcision, and this was uh following the Old Testament law, um, giving the baby a name at that time had become a common tradition. It wasn't part of the Old Testament law, but that was very common that uh on the eighth day when the baby was circumcised you would give it its name Now, was it the practice for friends and families to chime in with their thoughts? No, that was not right then. It's not right now. If you have Grandchildren expecting or niece or nephew or friend. If you're the s parents, that's the it's the parents decision. about the name. But all this happened. Zechariah and Elizabeth had been told way back in verse 13 that his name was John. And the the uh neighbors were all trying to say, oh, Zechariah, Zechariah Jr. , you know, Zach II or something like that. No, no Listen to verse 60. This is Elizabeth. John still still hasn't been given his voice back. His mother answered, No, he shall be called John. She remembered what the angel had said. She wasn't with Zechariah when the angel spoke, but Zechariah told her, his name's going to be John. She believed it This name should be called John. Oh. None of your relativ they argue with it. None of your relatives is called by this name. And they made signs to the father, sign language, inquiring what he wanted John, this is verse 63. This is important because this is where he comes around and he believes the Lord. He asked for a writing tablet, and he wrote, his name is John. Amen. And immediately, and they they were, the people were wondering, immediately his mouth was opened, his tongue was loosed, and he spoke, blessing God. Amen. And the people came around too. Um fear came on all the neighbors and all these things were talked about through the hill country and they heard and they laid up in their hearts, What then will this child be? They came around. They realized. His name was John. I want to move on to letter C, but remember our theme as we're going through this story, true story of Zechariah and Elizabeth and baby John the Baptist, who became what we call John the Baptist. Getting ready for Jesus. Getting ready for Jesus. Our last section in your outline is Zechariah's prophecy, verses 67 through 80. Reiken in his commentary calls it Benedictus and the NIV calls it Zechariah's song. But I like prophecy because it was in fact a prophecy and that's that's the heading in your ESV Bible of the the Bible here on the chairs. There's a lot here, but I just want to look briefly at four elements of this prophecy that the Holy Spirit gave to Zechariah. And as we'll see, that even though the prophecy is about John, it's also very clearly pointing to the Messiah, pointing to Jesus, whom John would have people get ready. for. First of all, the horn of salvation. These were verses that Sean read for us earlier in the service. Verse 69, he has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. Horn of salvation, right off the bat, is is prophecy speaking clearly of Jesus. And it focuses on the primary reason for Jesus' coming to earth to bring salvation. There's a lot that Jesus did in his time here on earth. He did miracles that not only blessed people but prove that he was God. He taught a lot of, he taught all kinds of things, parables, sermon on the mount, lots of other things. And yes, he brought peace to earth, peace with God through faith in Christ. But at the heart of why Jesus came was to bring salvation for those who believe. He was a horn of salvation. Look down at verses 72 and 73, the holy covenant. To show the mercy promised to our fathers to remember his holy covenant. The oath he swore to our father Abraham to grant us that we being delivered from the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear. This speaks specifically of the covenant given to Abraham 2,000 years before Christ, recorded in Genesis 12. A covenant is a promise And God keeps his promises. We sometimes call it the covenant of grace. And that's often expressed in Scripture. I will be a God to you and to your children after you. And that covenant or oath as it's called in verse 73, that promise, we find throughout Scripture in the Old Testament, New Testament. It's in the historical books of the Old Testament. It's in the prophets. It's in the Gospels. It's in Paul's letters. Especially emphasized in the book of Hebrews, all the way through the Bible, I will be a God to you and to your children after you. And that covenant, that promise of God, was fulfilled in Christ. We sometimes speak of Christ as the mediator of the covenant, the covenant of grace God made a promise 2,000 years before Christ. It was fulfilled in Christ. And now 2,000 years later, Forest Hill, Maryland. It's still true for all who believe. All of us who believe are recipients of the blessings of that covenant. Praise God. Verse 76, prophet of the You child will be called, and this is speaking of John the Baptist, prophet of the Most High. To give you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, give knowledge of salvation to his people and the forgiveness of their sins. Notice how similar this is to what Gabriel had told Mary. Now we skipped the big section in the middle of the chapter. where Gabriel speaks to Mary. But look back with if you have your Bible, this is Gabriel talking to Mary, 31 and 32. of Luke chapter 1. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. And he will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. Almost the same thing. Jesus is the Son of the Most High. John the Baptist is the prophet. of the Most High. Gabriel knew what he was talking about. And as the verse goes on to say, um For you will go before the Lord and prepare his ways to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins. And that's our last point, the forgiveness of sins. And this is at the heart of the gospel. We don't want to miss it. John the Baptist, when he grew up and began his ministry, preached a message of repentance. But John could not forgive sins. Only Jesus can forgive sins. And folks, that's what we need. Yes, Jesus brings joy and peace and fulfillment. But first and foremost, he forgives our sins. Back in verse 19, when Gabriel identified himself, he said that he was sent to bring good news. The old English word for good news is the gospel. The gospel is the good news that Jesus would die for our sins and that we might have eternal life through faith in him. Let's wrap up. As I said before, I like to preach expositionally, going through the Bible verse by verse and seeing what God has to say. In this case, Luke and Zechariah, Luke 1, Zechariah and Elizabeth, with the theme, Getting Ready for Jesus. But it's also important to make personal application. Not just what is God saying in Luke 1, but what is God saying to me What lessons does he want me to learn from the true story of Zechariah and Elizabeth? And I'm suggesting that we too need to be getting ready for Jesus. Even though this is about Zechariah and Elizabeth and John the Baptist and Mary and the part that we've skipped over, ultimately all of Luke 1 is pointing to Jesus. In fact, the whole Bible, even the Old Testament, points to Jesus. So I want to encourage each of us, as we get ready for Christmas in the days ahead, to also get ready for Jesus. Think about him. As you hear and sing Christmas carols, think about the many of the old Christmas carols have the gospel clearly in them. Some of the hymns we sang this morning. Listen, think about that. Um Christmas cards. I hope some of the Christmas cards you get have have a little Bible verse there. I know Pastor Van Vemmel's going to be preaching on the Christmas story over the next three weeks We sometimes hear expressions like keep Christ in Christmas or Jesus is the reason for the season and we think that's kind of trite, that's kind of corny. And you don't have to use those expressions. I don't use them But the fact is they're true. The fact is they're true. Enjoy some of your other Christmas traditions, your tree, gift giving and receiving, cookies. Enjoy them. But as you do, keep Jesus in the center of our celebration. Jesus, the Son of God, who came to die on the cross for our sins and rise from the dead That we might have faith in him and have eternal life. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, your Son, whom you sent to be our Savior. Thank you for the true story of Zechariah and Elizabeth and how you chose them and their son John to get ready for Jesus, to get us ready for Jesus. May we too be ready by trusting Him as our Lord and Savior. In Jesus' name. Amen.