And everything we have to be thankful for flows from the Lord's steadfast love for us. Please turn with me to Psalm 136. Psalm one thirty-six. We are going to read this as a responsive reading. So what I would like you all to do is to read the second line of every verse. So this is probably how this was sung originally is that the the Levites or whoever's leading the singing would sing the first line and then the congregation would answer back by singing the refrain. So Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of Gods. For his steadfast love and endures forever. Give thanks to the Lord of Lords. For his steadfast love endures forever. To him who alone does great wonders. For his death past love endures forever. To him who by understanding made the heavens. For his death past love endures forever. To him who spread out the earth above the waters For his steadfast love endures forever. To him who made the great lights. For his steadfast love endures forever. The sun to rule over the day. The moon and stars to rule over the night. For his steadfast love endures forever. To him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, for his deadfast love endures forever And brought Israel out from among them as love endures forever. With a strong hand and an outstretched arm. To him who divided the Red Sea in two for his lay last full endures and made Israel pass through the midst of it For his steadfast love endures forever. But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea. To him who led his people through the wilderness forever. To him who struck down great kings. And killed mighty kings. Sihon, king of the Amorites, for his dead pass love endures forever. And Og, king of Bashan, for his dead end And gave their land as a heritage. For his steadfast love endures forever. A heritage to Israel his servant For we resent past love endures forever. It is he who remembered us in our lowest store for respect past love endures forever. And rescued us from our foes. He who gives food to all flesh For his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of heaven for his steadfast love endures forever. Heavenly Father, you are good, and your steadfast love endures forever. We have every reason to give you So make us thankful as we focus our hearts and minds on your word this morning. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Maybe seated. The words of my seventh grade German teacher come back to mind. Repetition is the mother of learning. That's pretty much all I remember from that class. That and Meinhut Erhat TriEcken, because we sang that song just about every day. So God wants us to know something. He wants us to know That his steadfast love endures forever, and that that's the ultimate reason for us to give thanks. And so 26 times we have the repetition of this line. It is the Thanksgiving season. This coming Thursday is Thanksgiving Day. It is a holiday with deep roots in American history. It is one which I have observed repeatedly that seems to be uh our culture doesn't know r quite what to do with it. Um and so the day after Halloween is just Christmas Christmas explodes everywhere the day after Halloween, and you know that I'm sort of fighting against that. Some people will misinterpret that and think that because I want us to try to keep Thanksgiving, that somehow I'm anti-Christmas. I am the least anti-Christmas person you will ever day after Thanksgiving I am going full bore. Um but I'm gonna wait because it is important for us to give Thanks. We have so much to be thankful for. I think part of the reason why our culture doesn't know what to do with Thanksgiving is that it's not as profitable a holiday. Even then Halloween. Halloween, you know, shows up the day after Labor Day pretty much. I did a little bit of research and it looks like last year Americans spent twice as much On Halloween as on Christmas, 11. 6 or I mean on as Thanksgiving, eleven point six billion dollars on Halloween, and about half that five point six billion on Thanksgiving. So it's just not the profitable holiday. People would much rather have 20-foot plastic skeletons in their yard, I guess, and spend the money on that. We do spend money on the food, the day of, which we're thankful for. We should be thankful for food. That's right in there. Verse 25, he gives food to all flesh. So we're thankful for that. The first Thanksgiving proclamation in the history of our country was issued by our very first president, the very first year he was in office. George Washington, 1789. I think it's remarkable to remind ourselves of some of the history of Thanksgiving and to take a look at these proclamations that were issued by past presidents Just a little bit of them, but George Washington in 1789, this was his presidential proclamation. Whereas it is the duty of all nations to acknowledge the providence of Almighty God, to obey His will, to be grateful for His benefits, and humbly to implore His protection and favor. And whereas both houses of Congress have, by their joint committee, requested me to recommend to the people of the United States a day of public thanksgiving and prayer to be observed by acknowledging with grateful hearts the many signal favors of Almighty God especially by affording them an opportunity peaceably to establish a form of government for their safety and happiness. Now therefore I do recommend and assign Thursday, the 26th of November, so we're real close this year, right? To be devoted by the people of these states to the service, to be devoted by the people of these states to the service of that great and glorious being. who is the beneficent author of all the good that was, that is, or that will be. That we may then all unite in rendering unto Him our sincere and humble thanks for all the great and various favors which He has been pleased. to confer upon us, given under my hand at the city of New York on the third day of October, in the year of our Lord 1789. That's pretty profound for a presidential proclamation. It's only my second favorite presidential Thanksgiving proclamation, though, because my favorite is from my favorite president, Abraham Lincoln. Who in 1863, this is when Thanksgiving was made an official national holiday. Before that, almost every president had issued Thanksgiving proclamations. In November, at the end of the harvest season, uh pretty consistently, but Lincoln makes it an official national holiday, which he set at the last Thursday in November, then it was later moved to the fourth Thursday in November. But listen to this from Lincoln. The year that is drawing toward its close has been filled with the blessings of fruitful fields and healthful skies. To these bounties which are so constantly enjoyed that we are prone to forget the source from which they come, others have been added which are of so extraordinary a nature that they cannot fail to penetrate and even soften the heart, which is habitually insensible to the ever-watchful providence of Almighty God. In the midst of a civil war of unequaled magnitude and severity, which has sometimes seemed to foreign states to invite and provoke their aggressions, peace has been preserved with all nations. Order has been maintained, the laws have been respected and obeyed, and harmony has prevailed everywhere except in the theater of military conflict while that theater has been greatly contracted by the advancing armies and navies of the Union. Needful diversions of wealth and of strength from the fields of peaceful industry to the national defense have not arrested the plow, the shuttle, or the ship. The axe has enlarged the borders of our settlements. and the mines, as well of iron and coal as of the precious metals, have yielded even more abundantly than before. Population has steadily increased, notwithstanding the waste that has been made in the camp. the siege and the battlefield. And the country rejoicing in the consciousness of augmented strength and vigor is permitted to expect that continuance of years with increased freedom. Listen to this. No human counsel has devised, nor has any mortal hand worked out these things. They are the gracious gifts of the Most High God, who, while dealing with us in anger for our sins, has nevertheless remembered mercy. It has seemed to me fit and proper that they should be solemnly, reverently, and gratefully acknowledged as with one heart and voice by the whole American people. I do therefore invite my fellow citizens in every part of the United States, and also those who are at sea and those who are sojourning in foreign lands to set apart and observe the last Thursday of November. As a day of thanksgiving and praise for our beneficent Father who dwells in the heavens. And then this part. You would never hear this today. And I recommend to them that while offering up the ascriptions justly due to him for such singular deliverances and blessings. They do also with humble penitence for our national perverseness and disobedience Commend to his tender care all those who have become widows, orphans, mourners, or sufferers in the lamentable civil strife in which we are unavoidably engaged. and fervently implore the interposition of the Almighty Hand to heal the wounds of the nation and to restore it as soon as may be consistent with the divine purposes to the full enjoyment of peace, harmony, tranquility, and union. Those are Thanksgiving Day proclamations. And they reflect a time when Not necessarily Christian entirely, but an awareness of God, an awareness of providence, an awareness of sin, an awareness of the need for forgiveness. was much more readily and publicly acknowledged. Thanksgiving remains a national holiday, but we did accomplish something un unprecedented in American history in that last year's Thanksgiving proclamation had no reference to God at all. Instead, where Lincoln said, no human counsel has devised, nor has any mortal hand worked out these things, they are the gracious gifts. of the Most High God, who, while dealing with us in anger for our sins, has nevertheless remembered mercy. Last year's Thanksgiving proclamation declared, We are truly a good nation because we are a good people. Now, should perhaps not surprise us that much that the nation has moved away from God. Sean sort of made reference to it in his prayers when you talk about Thanksgiving these days. I think the other reason besides the fact that it's not profitable, the other reason why our culture is uncomfortable with it is thankful to whom? Oh, I'm thankful. Oh, good. Thankful to whom? I'm just thankful. I have a spirit of I have an attitude of gratitude. I'm thankful. So try this at Thanksgiving dinner on Thursday. Whoever cooks, prepares, and serves the meal. Thank some inanimate object in the middle of the table. Oh thank you so much. See how see how you get away with that. It's God who gives us these things. It's the Almighty God. It's it's the beneficent God, as both Washington and Lincoln referred to him. He is beneficent. That means he gives us all benefits. That we enjoy. They come from his hand. They come from his hand. And while it shouldn't surprise us that the world is going the way of the world, It is the church that is the true people of God, and it is Christians who should be the loudest and the most joyful and the most clear in our giving of thanks. Thanks. Because we know the God who is the giver of every good and perfect gift. And we are called by Him to be the salt of the earth and the light of the world, to shine with the truth and to influence those around us. So whatever the nation does rightly or wrongly with the national holiday, we are called to gratitude Over 150 times the Bible calls us to gratitude with the direct command to give thanks over 50 times. God's commands are for our good as well as for his glory. God commands us to give thanks because it is good for us to give thanks. And we need to be humbled. Because we are so prone to think that we are responsible for all the good things in our lives and to be boastful when really we couldn't take the next breath if it wasn't given to us by God. Giving thanks also helps us remember that every detail of our lives is ordered by the wise providence of the God who made us and who loves us more than we could ever begin to Understand. This knowledge helps us give thanks, even for hard and unwelcome things, because God is beneficent through it all. So let's turn specifically to Psalm 136. Begins with a familiar call to Thanksgiving. This first two lines are found several places throughout the Psalms. Throughout the Bible, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. True Thanksgiving, biblical thanksgiving, begins with God. It doesn't begin with our blessings. It doesn't begin with, I'm thankful for my health and I'm thankful for a good year. It begins with, I'm thankful to God. Because he is good. And because his steadfast love endures forever. It's who God is that we're most thankful for. First of all, God is good. God is good, that's kind and generous, and he is in no way evil or corruptible. Imagine if that were not true. We would have no hope, we would have no security, we would have no consistency. But 1 John 1:5 says that God is light, and in him is no darkness. At all. At all. Jane says if him, there's no variation or shadow of turning with God. He's perfect in all of his ways. And then we have the refrain begins, for his steadfast love endures forever. 26 times. Once in every single verse, this line is repeated. Steadfast love. If you know me at all, you know what this word is in Hebrew. It's my favorite Hebrew word. I have a number of favorite Psalms. I have a number of favorite chapters of the Bible. I have one favorite Hebrew word, and that is chesed. Hasid is this word that is translated here as steadfast love. It's really a word that's untranslatable into English because it's so rich and so varied in its meaning. Traditional translations will translate this as mercy, and so his mercy endures forever and he is good. That's true, but mercy doesn't really capture the fullness of the word. Mercy technically has to do with God not punishing us. us as our sins deserve. And that's true, and that is part of his Hesed. But back in 1535 when the Coverdale Bible was being put together based on the work of Miles Coverdale and William Tyndale They coined a new English word, loving kindness. And so the King James uses the word loving kindness, as does many traditional And that's, I think, a better word to capture the heart of it, but it's lacking a little bit, and that is that behind the word Hesed is the idea of a covenantal commitment that God has made. And so the ESV renders this as steadfast love. And other modern translations will use the terms faithful love or loyal love. Because it's tied in to the fact that God is a covenantal God who makes promises. And so there's a strength of commitment As well as a tenderness of care behind this Hebrew word. I think that it is the word that expresses the heart of God that is behind his covenantal commitments. It is the heart that we want to see, and we see best in marriage. When husband and wife come together, it's to love, honor, cherish. in sickness and in health and rich and poor. It's a commitment, but it's a loving commitment. The love motivates the commitment. Commitment strengthens the love. It's a loving commitment. Of course, we're human beings. We're far from perfect. And so even on our best days We only come close to approximating what is behind the heart of God. But when God describes his relationship with his people, so often in Scripture He uses that analogy of merit. Because he says, I've taken you to be my own. I will be your God. You will be my people. I will belong to you and you will belong to me. There's that commitment. That's the heart of God. That is chesed. It's true, it's faithful, it's enduring forever, it never fades, it never changes because it comes out of who God is. Hasid is a word that's repeated 26 times in this psalm. It's found over 250 times in the Old Testament. Half of those occurrences, 128 of them, are in the Psalms. We read a little bit from Psalm 107. I would recommend to use Psalms 107 and 118, as well as 136, as being the Thanksgiving Psalms that most focus our attention on Chesed. When we get to God's Hesed, though, we see it most perfectly in Jesus Christ. who is the very embodiment, the very fulfillment of the heart of God. He's the King of Kings and He's the Lord of Lords. And Psalm 136 opens by reminding us in this opening lines that the God Who is good? The Lord, whose steadfast love endures forever, that he is indeed God of gods and Lord of lords, as Jesus is King of all kings. And Lord of all Lords. That means there is no earthly or spiritual power or authority that are not under God's command. And under Jesus' reign, and those who resist and those who rebel cannot thwart his will and will finally be judged and vanquished by him. So the fact that God is in control, this is where some people struggle a little bit. Say, well, if God is God of all gods, Lord of all lords If he alone does great wonders, if he's established his throne in the heavens and his kingdom rules over all, if he's the sovereign God, why do we have evil in the world? Does that mean that he's not good? No, he is good. Well, what does that tell us about the evilness in the world? Is it not really evil? No, it really is evil. But there are two things that we as believers can know about the evil that is in the world. One, it is under His command and control. Which means it will never go further than he permits, or further than he designs for it to be used for his glory and for the good of his people. And And the other good news is that it is temporary. Like all illness Like the aches and pains of aging, like all sorrow and grief, evil for the believer is temporary. It's a temporary condition that Jesus has conquered. And he will reign until every enemy is put under his feet. Now, these truths that are in these opening lines about who God is, that He's good, and His steadfast love endures forever. That he reigns over all things, all other so-called gods and lords are under his command, and that he alone does Great wonders. These truths are in fact the most important things for us to know Not just religious things to talk about in church on a Sunday morning, not just things to sing about and then forget about. They are in fact the most important things for us to know every moment of our lives. Why? Think about it. First of all, they allow us to do what God says is his will for us, and that is to give thanks in all circumstances. How can you give thanks in all circumstances? Really? Because we know that behind whatever is happening to us is God's heart of love, that he is good, and that his steadfast love endures forever. It also Teaches us to rely on his strength and not our own. He's the God of gods, he's the Lord of Lords. He alone does great wonders. It's his strength Christ in us is the hope of glory. I can do all things through him who strengthens me. He's all-powerful. He's never failing, not me. So it allows us to give thanks in all circumstances. It calls us to rely on his strength and not our own. The third thing it does is that it allows us not to fret in the face of evil. Because we know that God overrules it for the good of his people, that he's decisively defeated it in the death and resurrection of Jesus, and that he will judge and vanquish it when Jesus returns. And so we can trust him, we can depend upon him, and we can walk with him through anything that he calls us to go through in this life. We see a really good example of how to do this in the Apostle Paul. So if you have your Bible, please turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 4. I want you to see, because Paul was a guy who lived this out. And it changed his life. Changed his whole perspective. Second Corinthians chapter four, starting in verse seven We're shouldn't start in verse six. God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts. to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair Persecuted, but not forsaken. Struck down, but not destroyed. Always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you. Since we have the same spirit of faith, according to what has been written, I believed, and so I spoke, we also believe and so So we speak, knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence for it is all for your sake so that as grace extends to more and more people it may increase what Thanksgiving. It may increase thanksgiving to the glory of God. So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, can I get an amen? Our inner self is being renewed day by day. For this light, momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. As we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen, for the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are evil Eternal. At Thanksgiving, it's so important that we begin with the things that are eternal and the things that are unseen. Because here's the thing. If we if we do the sort of standard American practice of Thanksgiving, what are you thankful for? I'm thankful for my job that I'm able to provide for my family. Good. I'm thankful for my family. I good. I'm thankful for our house that we get to live in. It's good. That's That's good. And you can see those things and you can identify those things, and those are good things. But it can take you down a road of starting to sort of tally up things that you can see. And you can start putting some things on the blessing side of the ledger and some things on the burden or curse side of the ledger. So yes, I have a family, but sometimes they get on my very last nerve Yes, I have a job, but man, there are days when I just can't stand my boss. And yes, I have but and so you can end up in this sort of like back and forth, unstable. But if you begin with what is eternal You begin with what is unchanging. Who God is, how he reigns, what he's given you. Then you can be like Paul and you can say, in redemption. In other words, we start with God, and then the transition verse is really verse 4: to him who alone does great wonders. Well, how does he do great wonders? He does great wonders in creation, and that's verses 5. through uh nine and then he does great wonders in redemption and that's verses ten through twenty two. So those are the two main sections. And so with God in mind we then look at creation. The fact that God's hesed is seen in all creation is a reminder to us that the whole world and all people on it benefit from God, are blessed by God, and so all people owe their thanks to God. God. Yes, it is believers who alone have come to know God as our Redeemer, who know the true love of God given to us in Jesus Christ. But all people on the whole world know that there is a creator Who has made the world and who has made them. And they owe him their thanks for that. God made a covenant with all creation after the flood, in that he promised to provide. seasons and predictability and to never again destroy the earth of the flood. And ever since then we live in a world, even though there are natural disasters, the regular rhythms of the patterns of life Springtime and harvest, night and day, seasons, they are there by the faithful hand of God. And so it's not by coincidence that the Thanksgiving holiday comes at the end of the harvest season. Now most of us aren't out harvesting crops. And we have grocery stores that are full of food year-round. But imagine, if you will, a world in which there wasn't such a thing, which is most of human history. The end of the harvest season you would see most abundantly how God provided for you and how you would be able to live through the winter. And so you would I think one of the problems we have in our culture today, where we're not as thankful as we should be, is that we're not as connected to God's creation. As we should be. We live indoor lives. And worse than that, we live on-screen lives. And so we're not connected to the rhythms and the beauty of God's creation and his care for creation. for creation, we're in a virtual world. I've shared the statistic with you before, but the people who are most online, like have are in the highest category of time spent online. online are four times as likely to be unbelievers in God as any other category. Because you get into a world that's man-made and virtual, and it seems like, uh, well, what's God got to do with it? Everything here is made by people. We can be deluded. So one of the things I think we ought to do is to get outside. Right? Get outside. Because creation is the living canvas of the master artist. The beauty of the sky, the thriving lives of countless multitudes of animals, from ants to those giant flocks of birds that come through in the fall to The blue whales that swim in the ocean, bigger than school buses, they all testify to the greatness of the Lord as their designer, their engineer, and their sustainer. So we need to get outside. But the majority of Psalm 136 is not focused on creation. Creation is dealt with First, in part, because the temptation, when Psalm 136 was written, the temptation was for people to worship creation. And so particular attention is paid to the sun, moon, and stars because for ancient peoples, that's what they would worship instead of God. And so they want to set it clear. God wanted to make it clear that He's the one who made those things and who rules over those things. But the majority of this is focused on redemption. And it's focused in particular on the Exodus. About a 40-year period of time from the Passover judgment to coming into the promised land. If you look at it, verse 10 begins with the Passover. He struck down the firstborn of Egypt. And then verse 21 and 22, he gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to Israel, his servant that's coming into the promised land. Land. Think about all that had to happen during that generation. There were the plagues, there was the death of the firstborn, there was the blood of the Passover lamb. There was the parting of the Red Sea and walking through it on dry land. And then there were the enemies that stood in their way. Two of them are named in particular here the most powerful kings. that God subdued Og, king of Bashin, and Sihon, king of the Amorites. There were enemies in the way. And then God brought them into his heritage. What do we do with this? I mean this seems long away, long ago and far away from us. Well, we have an advantage. In that we live on this side of the cross from Psalm 136. But the same themes of redemption that are anticipated here in Psalm 136 were accomplished by Jesus. So, in the Passover, you had the death of the firstborn, you had the Passover lamb's blood that protected the people from the wrath of God. That was fulfilled in Jesus, who was the one and only Son of God, and who laid down his life for us that he might become the firstborn of Among many brothers. And he shed his blood for us as the Passover Lamb, so that we would be protected from the wrath of God, and we would be delivered out of sin and bondage to death. Just as God parted the Red Sea and led his people through on dry ground, so Jesus burst through death and shattered death so that his people can walk in his footsteps through death and into eternal life. And then just as his people faced enemies in the wilderness wanderings as they were journeying to the promised land, we face enemies. who oppose us and they don't want us to experience the fullness of God's joy and his promises to us. And so God defeats those enemies on the cross God triumphed over Satan and all of his hosts, and he equips us to do spiritual battle in Christ to overcome the enemies who stand between us and the promised land of God's fullness. For us. And then he gives to his people an inheritance. We have an inheritance. We've been born again to a living hope of an eternal inheritance that's kept in heaven. for us and that is given to us to experience the foretaste of in this life. So we have been redeemed. We've been redeemed in a very much more powerful and poignant way. So we can read Psalms like Psalm 136 and we can think, Yes, God struck down the firstborn of Egypt, but he struck down his one and only Son for my salvation. He brought Israel out from slavery in the land of Egypt, but he brought me out from slavery to sin and death. With a strong hand and an outstretched arm, he divided the Red Sea in two. Jesus outstretched his arms on the cross and took the wrath that I deserve, and then he burst through the gates of hell and death and tore that open so that it's no longer an opposition for us. We pass through death and into life. He overthrew Pharaoh, he overthrew Sihon, he overthrew Og. Our enemies, our own flesh, the world, Satan, they are defeated, and God is defeating them from before us. He leads us through the wilderness. Aren't there days when this world feels like a wilderness? But he leads us through the wilderness. And what did he give his people in the wilderness? What did he give them every day? Mana from heaven and living water that flowed from the rock, God feeds us every day with Jesus Christ and with his Holy Spirit who lives with us We are fed, we are sustained every day in our wilderness wanderings. And he led them. The pillar of cloud by day, the pillar of fire by night, led them through the wilderness wanderings. God leads us by his providential care. through our wilderness wanderings, we are being led by the hand of God every day. You might think you've screwed up, and maybe you have. But you haven't gotten yourself out of God's providential care and leading for you because He's using it all for your good and for His glory. step of the way. We can, we must Give thanks. We have been redeemed. We are being redeemed. And we will be finally and fully redeemed when Jesus comes again. And then Psalm one hundred thirty-six concludes by bringing together The idea of God's covenantal care for his own people and his provision for all creation in verses 23 to 25. It is he who remembered us in our low estate. and rescued us from our foes, he who gives food to all flesh. Jesus did something like these verses when he said, look at the flowers of the field. Even the ordinary ones. We were talking a little bit earlier about weeds. Some people call certain things weeds that other people call precious flowers, right? And how when Catherine was a little girl, she would get really upset when I cut the grass in the springtime because I would just kill all the flowers. So if she knew that I was going to cut the grass, she would go out and pick the flowers. The yellow dandelions and those little purple flowers and she would pick them and she would put them in a vase. before I went out and killed them all. Right? And we called them weeds and we killed them out of our yard. But look at them. They are they are flowers. And look at the wildflowers that grow in open fields where no one planted them, and they just grow. God delights. And Jesus said, God cares for you more than for flowers. And look at the birds. Man, would that the farm that's on 543 at Wheel Road, we drive by that farm every day, like four times a day, going back and forth. to school and it is it's just a place to watch God's provision even through a farm right because the deer come out of the woods in the late afternoon and they're always on the edge of the field and the geese stop by and it's like an all-you-can-eat buffet. And then these birds, these flocks of birds, you know, the thousands of the birds just fill the sky and they settle on this open field, they take off and they go again And they are not worrying. They're not checking their bank account balance and fretting about. They are provided for by God. And Jesus said, God cares more for you. those birds. It is he who remembered us in our low estate and rescued us from our foes, he who gives food to all flesh. God has had compassion on us. He's rescued us, and he continues to provide for us every day of our lives. So how will we give him thanks? How will we give him thanks? Well, let me suggest a couple of ways. First of all, let me suggest that we should speak. And sing thanksgiving to his name in a very clear and a very explicit way. We should tell aloud of the goodness of God and creation. in his providential care of us in our lives, of his great salvation for us in Jesus. We should speak of these things to our own souls, to one another in the body of Christ and to the world, to our family members. and to neighbors who do not know him. And singing thanksgiving. You know, the Psalms are constantly calling us to give thanks, but their songs, you know, we sing them. We sang Psalm 107 right before the sermon. today. But we need to give more attention. I know everybody wants to play Christmas music. And I love I love Christmas music. Uh, I really do. And but there's also good Thanksgiving music. And we should be singing that all the time, really, but especially this time of year. I did send out a playlist. If you want it, I made a playlist on Spotify of like 40 songs that are uh Thanksgiving, worship, and thankful songs. Be happy to send that to you if you didn't get it. You can just email me. Email me. But we should also not only speak and sing thanks to his name, we should also demonstrate and share the goodness we have received. Because we have been blessed. The more we understand God's chesed toward us and how abundantly kind and generous and undeserved and continual it is, the more we will want to share that with others. We can and we should share both God's creation goodness and his redemptive goodness. That means serving and helping others in need, seeking to be a blessing. And speaking clearly of the redeeming love of God in Christ Jesus. And in this way, I think it's very fitting that Thanksgiving comes right before Christmas. Christmas. Because the day after Thanksgiving, we're going to be in the Christmas season, and it's the most natural time of year to speak about Jesus and to share his love with others. And I do want to encourage you not to waste that season. We've got several things going on here at the church on December 8th. You can bring in Christmas cookies and we will hand them out to the neighbors on the 10th Would encourage you to do that so that all the neighbors up and down the street, they've they've gotten it from us for years. They'll also get a Gospel booklet, a Gospel of John. That's one way to do it. But at the Ladies Christmas luncheon, making crafts that we're going to hand out at Care Food Night Sunday the 15th. We're going to be singing Christmas Christmas Carols at Heart Heritage. I don't know if you know this, but on the third Sunday of every month we do a worship time at Heart Heritage. This month we're going to do lots of Christmas caroling at Heart Heritage. Heritage, so you can come and join us for that. The next day, Monday, we're going to be doing care food night. We're going to be doing lots of Christmas Caroling there, as well as handing out the gifts that the ladies make. at the Christmas luncheon. So participate in these things. To share the love of Jesus with those that God has put into our community. We have an opportunity to speak, to sing, and to give thankfulness. Let's make the most Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you. For the life we have in Him. Thank you for your care of us every day of our lives. We wake up in the morning and we're able to put our feet on the floor and stand upright and walk because you are good and your steadfast love endures. Forever. And we're here gathered to worship you freely because you are good and your steadfast love endures forever. And we enjoy every gift as a gift from you. Help us to say thank you. Help us to sing praises of thanksgiving, and help us to share the thank you with others that they might know the love of Jesus. We pray this. In Jesus name, Amen. Amen. We're not