Isaiah forty nine, verses eight to eighteen. Thus says the Lord, in a time of favor I have answered you. In a day of salvation, I have helped you. I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people, to establish the land, to apportion the desolate heritages saying to the prisoners, Come out, to those who are in darkness, appear. They shall feed along the ways. On all bare heights shall be their pasture. They shall not hunger or thirst, neither scorching wind nor sun shall strike them, for he who has pity on them will lead them. And by springs of water will guide them, and I will make all my mountains a road, and my highways shall be raised up. Behold, these come from afar, and behold, these from the north and from the west, and these from the land of Syene. Sing for joy, O heavens, and exalt, O earth. Break forth, O mountains, into singing, for the Lord has comforted his people, and will have compassion on his afflicted. But Zion said, The Lord has forsaken me, the Lord has forgotten me. Can a woman forget her nursing child? That she should have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you. Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands. Your walls are continually before me. Your builders make haste. Your destroyers and those who laid you waste go out from you. Lift up your eyes around and see They all gather, they come to you as I live, declares the Lord. You shall put them all on as an ornament. You shall bind them on as a bride does. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the message of hope. Thank you for the truth of the gospel. Thank you for the gift of Jesus. May we grow in our knowledge and understanding of Jesus. May we grow in our joy in Jesus for the time we spend in your word together this morning. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. And you may be seated. I do think it's interesting. At the heart of today's passage The real Advent message here is in verse 8, where God says to Christ the Messiah, the servant of the Lord, I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people. Jesus was given That first Christmas 2,000 years ago as a covenant to the people. We're going to talk about what that means. That's the real heart of this. The giving of Christ as a covenant to the people is the sort of Christmas message that is here, the advent message that's here. But there's all sorts of imagery in this passage that that we just think about this time of year. It's not necessarily directly talking about Christmas, but it's imagery of what we think about like pastures And sheep feeding in pastures, and people coming from afar, which I do think is a prophecy that's fulfilled in the coming of the wise men And then even a nursing child with her mother. These are all images that we have around this time of year, and they're all here in this passage, which I think is just pretty cool. This is the second Sunday of Advent, and the tradition in church history has been to think about the peace that Christ brings in his coming at this second Advent. Every year at Christmas time, we hear the traditional King James version of the angel's message to the shepherds, proclaiming peace on earth, goodwill to men. Most of the world gets excited about this message because it's just vague enough that if you take it out of context, it can sound like just a universal message. of peace and harmony. Peace on earth, good will to men. Like, who could be against that, right? Even like Bing Crosby and David Bowie can sing a duet, a beautiful duet about peace on earth, goodwill to men. And yet, the reality is we can look around at this Advent season 2024 and realize There doesn't seem to be a whole lot of peace on earth, goodwill to men. Wars are raging on nearly every continent on earth With the exception of Antarctica, where it's just too cold for people to fight with each other. And and North America, actually, there's no official war going on in North America. America. But every other continent in the world has wars, many wars going on right now. And and also, sadly, what's true, even in North America, is that worldwide more people are killed every year through crime than through war. So peace on earth, goodwill to men, can seem pretty far away from reality. This is nothing new, of course. During the American Civil War, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow wrote a beautiful Christmas carol, one of my favorites, I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day. His wife had died suddenly in 1861. His son had been injured in the war in 1862, and so he wrote. This I heard the bells on Christmas Day, their old familiar carols play, and mild and sweet their songs repeat, Of peace on earth, good will to men. And in despair I bowed my head. There is no peace on earth, I said, for hate is strong and mocks the song of peace on earth. Goodwill to men. Actually, peace on earth, goodwill to men is probably not the best way to translate the angel's message. All modern translations have kind of moved away from that rendering because it's really in the Greek, peace on earth to men of goodwill. And the implied, there's an implied divine to men of his goodwill. And so the way the ESV renders the passage is Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. Or on earth peace to men of his goodwill. The angel's message then summarizes not just universal fuzzy feeling of peace on earth, goodwill to men, but really summarizes The heart of God, which is glory to God and good for the people of God. Glory to God and the good of his people. That's the heartbeat of heaven. We see it over and over again through Scripture. God is good, God is to be glorified, and he is good to his people, his steadfast love endures forever So Jesus came not to bring a generalized peace on earth, goodwill to men, but to bring peace to those whose hearts are his. But how do we experience it? How do we find it? You might be thinking, well, I'm a Christian. My heart belongs to Him by grace, but I'm not experiencing a whole lot of peace this time of year. There's too much to do. Love how we crank up the busyness this time of year. Um a lot of it's good stuff. You know, I parties and cookies and fun times and we're doing our own outreaches and caroling and things like that and they're all good but it can feel like in the rush and busyness of the Christmas season the very last thing we experience is peace Exhaustion, perhaps, but peace? Well, there is peace. There is peace for us in Christ. Because all of God's blessings for his people are found fully and only in Christ alone. And so if we're going to find the peace of Christmas, we're going to have to find it in Christ. And that's why God gave Christ for us as a covenant. And a covenant in the ancient world, if you were to ask about a covenant, The primary purpose of a covenant is to make peace. To make peace. Covenants were used all over the ancient world, and they were used routinely to make peace between warring factions. And always, always, you made the covenant by shedding blood. In fact, in Hebrew, the expression to make a covenant is actually to cut a covenant Because you could not make a covenant of peace without shedding blood. Which even in that, which was a widespread cultural practice God had sowed seeds of the gospel to say there will be no peace without bloodshed. Why is that? Because the root cause of our lack of peace is sin. And sin must be dealt with. Sin must be paid for And so God the Father says to Christ, the anointed servant, I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people. Christ is given to God's people as a covenant. This is the fulfillment of centuries of promise. All the way back, Genesis 3. 15. The first gospel promise is that a seed of the woman will crush the head of the serpent, but what will happen to that seed of the woman when he crushes the head of the serpent? His heel will be crushed. So there's injury done to the seed of the woman as he crushes the head of the serpent. Fast forward a little bit, in Genesis 15, God makes a covenant promise. to Abraham and he says, I'm surely going to bless you, and I'm going to bless your offspring after you, and through your offspring all the nations of the earth will be blessed. And Abraham says, God, I don't want to question you, but I'm really old. And my wife is not that much younger than I am. How are you going to give us many offspring and bless the nations through us? And so God gave Abraham a covenant. He actually had Abraham cut animals in half and make a bloody pathway that went through the severed halves of the animals. Because this is the way covenants were made in the ancient world. And then he put Abraham to sleep as God himself walked through the severed pieces of the animals. And there's a message there. You cut the animals, you shed their blood, you create a bloody pathway. The normal way a covenant would be made is if there were two Equal parties who had been fighting with each other and they wanted to make peace, they would stand together, side by side, and they would walk down that pathway. And by doing that, they were saying, if I break this covenant, may this be done to me. Now, if it was a greater king who had conquered a lesser king, he would make the lesser king walk through the severed pieces. Because the message there was, if you rebel against me, this is what I'm going to do to you. And that's how peace was made with a threat. But God, the greatest king of all, the creator and sustainer of everything, he puts Abraham to sleep and he walks through The bloody pieces by himself, saying, I will surely bless you, and through your offspring, all families of the earth will surely be blessed. And the guarantee is I will take the penalty on myself. And so God says to Christ, I will keep you and I will give you as a covenant to the people. And when Christ is given as a covenant to the people, that is the time of favor, that is the day of salvation. Which 2 Corinthians says is now. Behold, now is the day of salvation because Christ has been given. We're no longer waiting for salvation to come. We're looking back on the reality that salvation has come in Jesus. Jesus at the Last Supper spoke of the reality that He was the covenant when he took the cup after supper. And he said, This cup is The new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. So Jesus himself is saying, I am the covenant. It is in my blood, and it is for the forgiveness of sins, because without the forgiveness of sins, there can't be peace between a holy God. and a sinful people. Now, in using this language, new covenant for the forgiveness of sins, Jesus is intentionally Tying back to the promise of the new covenant that was given through the prophet Jeremiah in Jeremiah 31. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. my covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will write my law within them. I will write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor, and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity. If you've read through the Old Testament You know that it's a frustrating story. How many of you have ever read through the Old Testament and just felt exhausted by the time you got to the end of it? When will these people ever learn? When will these people ever get it right? Well, God's answer to that question is never. He's going to have to do it. Because we're too rebellious. We're too sinful. He says, I was a husband to you. I brought you out of Egypt. I rescued you. I took you to myself. I brought you into the promised land. I conquered all the enemies. I brought down the walls of Jericho. I cleared out every obstacle. And yet you sinned. You rebelled. You broke my covenant. I love it when people say the God of the Old Testament is so wrathful and angry. Like, really? Because he seems awfully patient to me. Again and again, rebellion and sin. Again and again, rebellion and sin. And God says No, I want you as my people, and I want to be your God, and I'm so committed to having you as my people and to being your God, that I will remove your iniquity and I will remember your sin no more If you're exhausted reading the Old Testament as a story of a repeated pattern of failure, what about your own life? What about my own life? Fifty years old now. This is our twenty-seventh Christmas as husband and wife. our 31st Christmas together as as a couple from when we first started dating in 1994. Some of you think that wasn't that long ago. Some of you wonder how someone can still be alive if they started dating in nineteen ninety four. But I can look back and I can say, wow, you know, God's been faithful. God took me to be his son. God has been faithful, and I have not been. There's been failure repeated again and again. But God gives Christ as our covenant so that He can accomplish what we never could. God fixes the covenant that His people break. I remember when Andrew was a little boy and we were just doing some normal family Bible stuff. And I said to him, like, we all break God's law. And we had said this before, we all break God's law. And I remember one time he asked. Daddy, what is God gonna do to fix the law? And I said what? And he said, what is God going to do to fix the law if we break it? And I thought, what a profoundly insightful question from a little boy. Like But that's why, you know, when Moses came down off the mountain with those two tablets of stone, what happened to him? Because the people were worshiping the golden calf. So, yeah, that's true. He didn't realize how true it was, but God has to fix what we break. And we certainly can't fix it. We're the ones who keep breaking it. So God fixes it through Jesus. God brings full forgiveness. God brings perfect righteousness. God brings eternal justification and adoption. all of which brings us peace with God and peace in our hearts through the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. And then that brings us benefits and blessings which I believe are spelled out for us in verses eight through twelve. So if you've still got your passage open, look at verses eight through twelve The first thing he does is apportion a heritage for us in verse eight. Through Christ being given as our inheritance, as our covenant, we are apportioned an inheritance Now, this passage, by the way, it has an immediate fulfillment in the return from exile and in the settling of the desolate land. That's the immediate fulfillment, but then it has an ultimate fulfillment in Christ. As Christ is the true Israel. Israel is returned from exile. They are settled in the land. They're each given their land, but they remain sinners, they remain rebellious, and they remain subject to invasion. And so Christ comes to ultimately fulfill, and we get the benefits and blessings of this. And the first one that's listed in verse 8 is that we get an inheritance. First Peter says, we've been born again to a living hope, to an inheritance kept in In heaven for us. In our Sunday school class this morning, we learned you need to lay up treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. We can, listen, we can lay up treasures in heaven because we have an inheritance with Christ. That's a privilege. Sometimes we think of it as a sacrifice. Oh, I need to give to the Lord's work and I need to care about eternal things. I need to say no to the things of this world. Yes, that's true. But praise God that you have an eternal inheritance where you can lay up treasure. It's been given to you because of Christ. The second thing is that He brings prisoners out of darkness. Verse 9. We've been set free from the oppressive bondage of sin and the fear of death. We've been brought out of darkness and into his marvelous light. The third thing, he lovingly feeds his people and cares for our needs. Just like those shepherds watching over their flocks by night, caring for them, protecting them, making sure they're well provided for, so God protects us. and make sure that we are well provided for. He gives us our daily bread. Again, part of what we learned in Sunday school Verse 10, he not only feeds us and cares for us, but he protects us. He allows only those trials and tribulations which may grow and benefit us as we trust him. Through them. Nothing to destroy us or take us out of his hand, only that which, if we will trust him, will grow us closer to him. The fifth thing is that he leads us. Verse 10. He leads us by his word and his spirit. The sixth thing is that he refreshes us, also in verse 10. with his spirit and with his people. And the seventh thing is that he gathers us from far away, and that's in verse 12. So seven blessings that come because Christ is our covenant, because he makes peace for us. We have an inheritance, we have deliverance, we have feeding and caring for our needs, we have protection, we have leading by his word and spirit, we have refreshment through his spirit and his people, and we have a gathering in. to the kingdom from far away. It's all ours through Christ. Now. We're given that now. Interestingly, that seventh benefit in verse twelve begins to be fulfilled almost immediately after the birth of Jesus. They'll come from far away. There were some wise men in the East. We don't know how many wise men they were. Why do we think there's three? Because they brought three gifts, right? It could have been could have been twelve guys who brought three gifts. We don't know, right? But they brought three gifts. They're wise men from the east. They saw a star the night that Jesus was born, a sign in the heavens. And they began the journey of a thousand miles, which means they didn't arrive on Christmas night. I also don't think they arrived twelve days later, which is traditionally January 1 sixth ends the twelve days of Christmas because it's the feast of the three kings. I don't think they would have gotten there that quickly either. It's a thousand mile journey by foot, and you have to pack and plan and prepare and buy the gifts and get everything together and Probably based upon reading between the lines of Matthew, they got there about a year later. But they got there And they came. They came to worship the one who was born king of the Jews. How did they know? How did they know? They saw his star in East. How did they even know to expect a star? Well, we don't know. The Bible doesn't say. But I will speculate for just a moment about two things that we know. So this is me speculating. So they came from the East, and they were wise men, they were magi. We know that there was a tradition of magi in the Persian culture, present-day Iran. That's why we say it's a thousand-mile journey, because it's from Iran to Bethlehem. Who was in the Persian Empire as the leader of the wise men and the counselors to the king. But Daniel Could it be that Daniel had left behind truth and a tradition that was passed on through the generations? We also know through archaeology, recently, archaeologists have discovered the tomb of a very famous and very wealthy prophet. And we know he was famous and he was wealthy because his tomb was like the tomb of a king when it was found by archaeologists. And that prophet was a man named Balaam. Have you heard of him? Yes. And what's interesting is Balaam gave a prophecy that's recorded for us in Numbers 24, and it says this I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near. A star shall come out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. Hmm Could it be Balaam's prophecy that was kept because ancient people were really good at keeping records of prophecies, especially if you were a well-known and well-respected prophet? We don't know. But perhaps through Daniel's influence, perhaps through Balaam's recorded prophecy, maybe both, we know they came. And we know that it was always God's plan to send the Messiah to gather not just the people of Israel, but the people of all the nations. We saw this last week in verse 6. It's too light of a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and bring back the preserved of Israel. I will make you as a light for the nations that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. And they come Salvation reaches the end of the earth, the blessings and benefits of Christ, as our covenant reached God's people in every corner of the world. And so every corner of the world is called to rejoice. Verse 13: Sing for joy, O heavens, and exult, O earth. Break forth, O mountains, into singing. For the Lord has comforted his people and will have compassion on his afflicted. Because ultimately the giving of Christ as the covenant for the people of God will lead to Christ coming again And all creation being liberated from its bondage to decay. So all creation can rejoice in the coming of Christ. And yet, and yet, back to something I said earlier, we don't always feel it, do we? We don't always feel or experience this comfort, this compassion, this peace. So you have God's people in verse 14 saying, The Lord has forsaken me. My Lord has forgotten. Me. Zion cries this lament because that's how it feels. They feel forsaken by God. But you know our feelings are not a very good indication of reality. Our feelings are a very reliable indication of one thing. And that is of how we feel. That's it. What do your feelings tell you? Your feelings tell you how you feel. But then you have to ask yourself, why do I feel that way? And then what's actually true? And why am I not feeling the way I think I should be feeling if what is true is really true? You ever wake up in the middle of the night having had a bad dream and you're feeling really stressed and distressed because of the dream that you had? I had one of those last night. 118 a. m. I woke up just stressed, frustrated, angry. over a ridiculous thing that happened in my dream that didn't didn't make any sense whatsoever, right? So I had to clear my head and clear my thoughts and pray and then go back to sleep. Because that's the way feelings are. So feelings are like, hey, hey, snap out of it and remind yourself of what's true, of what you know is true. And so God answers his people's cry of distress by saying this: Can a woman forget her nursing child? That she should have no compassion on the son of her womb. Even these may forget, but I will not forget. Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands. Your walls are continually before me. When a woman gives birth to a newborn baby, it can be a long, painful, stressful, exhausting experience And yet, when that baby is placed in her arms and she looks into the eyes of her newborn baby, there's a mother-baby bond that forms instantly. And that is one of the most wonderful things to witness in the world. It is wonderful. And Almost always from that moment that mom will do anything for that child. Anything. And yet, because we're sinful, there are times when moms abandon their babies That's a reality. It's a rare reality after birth, but it's a reality. And yet God says this, I hold you closer than You are dearer to my heart than that. I have engraved you on the palms of my hands. In many ways, in many ways, I think we can think of the Christmas message. In this way, God became fully human so that he could engrave us on the palms of his hands. He became fully human so that he could engrave us on the palms of his hands. This is a message that was originally given through the prophet Isaiah for a people who would be sent into exile. When the Jewish people were sent into exile from Jerusalem, they would want to remember. One of the saddest, probably the saddest uh lament in the Bible Psalm was It's like a lament about not wanting to forget Jerusalem. So one of the things we know from history when people were sent into exile is they would they would take indigo Inc. And they would write on the palms of their hands, they would draw pictures to remember. They would draw a picture of Jerusalem, or they would draw a picture of the temple, or they would draw the face of a loved one, maybe someone who died. In the conquest, and they they would write it in indigo because indigo is an ink that deeply stains and what it doesn't get washed off easily. And that's the imagery that God's picking up here of this tradition of writing on your poem in indigo, something that you want to remember. important to you. And yet the truth is that even the indigo ink would wear off eventually. God says, I didn't just write you on my palms, I engraved you. I engraved you on the palms of my hands. Because even today, even 2,000 years later today, Jesus still bears the scars. His hands from the nails that he took for you and for me. And when he sees the scars on his hands, his love for us. is remembered always. Always. So when you feel forgotten by God, which is normal by the way, all of us feel it from time to time. When you feel forgotten by God, we need to remember the cross where Jesus engraved us on the palms of his hands, and we need to know that Christmas isn't just about Jesus coming as a baby so that we can have Wonderful manger displays and beautiful decorations and sing lovely carols. He came as a covenant to guarantee To secure God's promise to us that I will be your God and you will be my people. And he engraved us. on the palm of his hands on the cross, and that means he loves us too much and he paid far too dear a price for us to ever forget or forsake. God has said, never will I leave you, never will I forsake you. And when God says never, he means never. Christ, as our covenant, proves God's love for us. It secures The covenant blessings that God has promised for us now, that we can experience them now by faith. But it's also He's secured for us a future, a glorious future, far greater than we could ask or imagine. And it's hinted at at the end of this passage in verses seventeen. And again, it's given in language about the exile and the return. But it's more than that. It's fulfilled in a greater way than that. Your builders make haste. your destroyers, and those who laid you waste go out from you. Lift up your eyes around and see. They all gather. They come to you. As I live, declares the Lord, you shall put them all on as an ornament. You shall bind them on as a bride does. When God's people were returned out of exile and restored to Jerusalem, the former enemies of God, two different things happened with them. One, some of them actually funded the rebuilding of the temple and of the walls. Cyrus the Great, when he gave the decree to return, he sent money for the rebuilding of the temple. And then later, under Nehemiah, when the walls were rebuilt, the king gave money out of the royal treasury for the rebuilding of the temple. building of the walls. These were the enemies of God's people. These were the oppressors of God's people. And yet their hearts were changed and they gave. And then there were others like Sanbal and Tobiah, who were enemies of God, who tried to oppose the work, and they were frustrated in their attempts to oppose the work of God. In this passage, we're given this idea that if you have enemies, one of two things is going to happen to those enemies. Either they're going to come to you and want to be part of what God is doing among you, or you're going to triumph over them. You're going to get the final victory. All the enemies of God, every every enemy of God, one of two things will happen. One, either they will be reconciled to God and will become a child of God, or they will be eternally judged when Jesus Jesus returns. So we get to see the joy of seeing the enemies of God's people join in for history. The history of God's people has always been Full of those who were once enemies of Christ, coming in repentance and faith to share in the joy of knowing Jesus. Think of the story of William Tyndale. Who translated the Bible into English from the original Greek and Hebrew? He was the first guy to do it from the original Greek and Hebrew, just about 500 years ago, 1525. He made that translation. He ended up paying for it with his life. He was burned at the stake. And yet, as he was burned at the stake, he prayed, Lord, open the King of England's eyes. Open the King of England's eyes. Two years after William Tyndale was burned at the stake. King Henry VIII commissioned to have every Bible that he had been working on put in every church. In the whole of his kingdom. He said every parish church must have a copy of the Bible in English based on the work that Tyndale was doing. God opened the King of England's eyes. God changes hearts. So we can pray in expectant hope that there's a glorious future coming, a far more glorious future. When Jesus comes again. The covenant will be consummated. It's already been kept, it's already been fulfilled, but it will be consummated in such a glorious way that we have we don't know. No eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor has it entered into the imagination of man what God God has prepared for those who trust in Him. We have no idea, but it's going to be far more wonderful than you could ever imagine. That day is coming. Well, as I said, this is my 51st Christmas, and uh it's a lot of things have changed over the years. I was listening to a song that we liked years ago, and um I I was telling Beth, I can't listen to that song, it's too sad. And I can't because it reminds me of the family gatherings for Christmas of of years gone by. Right? And now my mom's going on to be with the Lord. My dad is getting older and not able to really fully participate the way that he used to be able to. Beth's mom is in the assisted living center and and Lori and and her dad went to be with the Lord here. ago. And so there's a a sadness to it as you as as time passes. We go from you know we go from being the little kids who were eager on Christmas morning, we couldn't sleep. And we just wanted to get up and open the presents, right? To being the older kids who were like a little more passe about it, to then being the parents of the little kids who can't wait. to them being the parents of the kids who are a little bit passe and don't really care. To them being the parents of the parents of the little kids, as some of you are in that stage of life. And with each new stage of life there are things that are lost. that you miss and there are new things that you discover and enjoy and things change. The music changes, some of the things have been around, but every year there's new Christmas music that gets added. We're gonna sing a new Christmas song here in a few minutes. Sing me the song of Emmanuel. I think it's great to write new Christmas songs, to add them to the ones. So we're going to sing something we sang something from the four hundreds and we're going to sing something from I think I think last year or the year before. Um that's appropriate. But you know what? Even while things change, the most important things never do and never will. For hundreds of years, the most important things have never changed and never will. The greatest gift of Christmas is still God's gift of His Son. Who gave his life for us, who was given as a covenant for us. The Prince of Peace comes to give us his peace To call us to lay down our burdens and receive His love and rest by faith. And so my question for us is: will we receive? Again, the greatest gift. Will we, by faith, answer the call to trust in Jesus To place our hopes, our fears, our anxieties, our cares, our dreams, our aspirations, to place them all in his nail-scarred hands, where he has pledged to never forget us. And to trust him with it all, and to say thank you and to worship him from the heart. Will we do that again this Christmas season? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, there is no greater gift that you could possibly give than your one and only Son. There is no greater salvation, there's no greater hope, there's no greater anything that we could receive than what Christ came to bring us. Thank you. Thank you. May we sing, may we rejoice May we summon our hearts to glorify you and to tell others about you for the joy that you bring that nothing in this world can take away. We thank you in Jesus' name, amen.