Here in Isaiah sixty-two Hear now the Word of God. For Zion's sake, I will not keep silent And for Jerusalem's sake, I will not be quiet until her righteousness goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a burning torch. The nations shall see your righteousness and all the kings your glory, and you shall be called by a new name That the mouth of the Lord shall give. You shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the hand of your God. You shall no more be named forsaken, and your land shall no more be named or termed desolate, but you shall be called, my delight is in her. And your land married. For the Lord delights in you, and your land shall be married. For as a young man marries a young woman, so shall your sons marry you, and as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you. On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen all the day and all the night. They shall never be silent You who put the Lord in remembrance, take no rest, and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. The Lord has sworn by his right hand and by his mighty arm, I will not again give your grain to be food for your enemies And foreigners shall not drink your wine for which you have labored, but those who garner it shall set it, shall eat it, and praise the Lord, and those who gather it shall drink it in the courts of my sanctuary. Go through, go through the gates. Prepare the way for the people Build up, build up the highway, clear it of stones, lift up a signal over the peoples. Behold, the Lord has proclaimed to the end of the earth. Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your salvation comes. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. And they shall be called the holy people, the redeemed of the Lord, and you shall be called sought out, a city not forsaken. Let's pray. Our gracious Heavenly Father, you have indeed said glorious things about us, that you delight in us. That we will be a crown of beauty in your hand and a royal diadem. We will no longer be forsaken or desolate But we will be married to you forever, and we will be the holy people, the redeemed of the Lord, the sought-out ones, a city that is not forsaken. Help us to receive and believe this word from you and to respond to it as you call us to respond in this passage. Faithfully, obediently, joyfully, worshipfully, boldly. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Alright, this part's not in my notes, but it's so obvious I have to say it again. Sunday school. What was the main theme in Sunday school today? Prayer. And what kind of prayer? Persistent prayer, right? Impudent prayer even. Bold prayer, okay? Now look at this When you look at a Hebrew passage, where do you find the main point? In the middle. Alright, so let's go to the middle of this passage, which is verses 6 and 7. Particularly the end of six and the beginning of seven. On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen all the day and all the night. They shall never be silent. You who put the Lord in remembrance, take no rest, and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. What is that a call to? Persistent prayer, take no rest. And impudent prayer, give him no rest. God is calling us to give God no rest Until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. I just love how God, again, wasn't planned, didn't know, but God had it all planned. It was planned. God knew. So Really, what we're talking about today is who we really are, what God has really promised us, whether or not we really believe that, and then how we live in response to that. So first of all, who are you, really? This is a, you know, I know most of your names. We've got a few visitors here today that I don't know, but I know most of your names. If you meet somebody, first thing you tell them is your name. Get to know them a little bit more. You might tell them what you do for a living. Or you might tell them a little bit about your family. If you really get to know somebody, you might share with them some of your passions and hobbies and interests. And those of you who have heard me preach for any period of time, you know what some of those passions and interests and hobbies are. You may not be surprised that on Friday night, the it was the 20th anniversary of Revenge of the Sith, Star Wars movie. So Andrew, Jeremiah, and I were there in the movie theater in Whitemarsh, which is exactly where I saw it 20 years ago when it first came out. And it was an interesting experience for them because they've only seen it on televisions and they got to see it on the big screen for the first time in their lives, which reminded me. . . Right before the prequels came out, those of you old enough to remember it, you remember they re-released the original trilogy in digitally enhanced, and I got to see it on the big screen for the first time. I had only seen Return of the Jedi in movie theaters, the first two, I was too young when they came out. So anyway. That's that's is that important to me? Sure. Is it the most important thing to me? No. It's not even in the top ten. What your name is, what job you do, what your interests, passions, and hobbies are, even your family. situation is not the most important thing about you. The most important thing about you is who you are in the eyes of God. How does God view you? What does God see of you? What does God say of you? And one of the things that What frustrates me a little bit as a pastor with a lot of Christians is a lot of Christians will just say, well, I'm just a sinner. I'm just a broken sinner. Well, saved by the grace of God. Well, yeah, that's who you are in and of yourself. But you are not in and of yourself anymore. You are in Christ. If you believe in him and he is in you, and if you are in Christ and He is in you, then the Lord delights in you. He rejoices over you. You are a sparkling jewel in his royal crown. You are a prized sheep of his pasture. You are a member of his body. You are part of his bride. You are not forsaken. You are not desolate. You are loved. And that is what is most true of you if you are in Christ. What is most true of you is that you are loved by the God of the universe with an everlasting love and that he sees you in Christ and sees Christ in you and he delights in you What does your future hold? We live in uncertain times Heels funny when a pastor says that. We live in uncertain times. What if we ever lived in certain times None of us knows what tomorrow is going to bring, right? None of us knows which way the economy is going to go or what's going to happen in this world. We always live in uncertain times, but for the believer, for those who were in Christ, we always live in certain times. Because our times are in his hands, and he has written out the days of our lives in his book, every one of them, before even one of them came to be, and he has secured our eternal hope and our eternal future. Now these these questions of identity and of destiny are really important because what we truly believe about our identity and about our destiny shapes almost all the decision making we we do and and how or the approach that we take to life. If we think we're basically weak, insignificant, nobody's Then we're going to kind of live half-heartedly, not putting much effort into it, because we don't think we're going to make much of a difference anyway. If we think our future is uncertain and probably headed for disaster. And we won't really try all that hard. We won't really do all that much. We'll just sort of get by to get by. But if we believe what God tells us, not about who we are in and of ourselves, but if we believe what God tells us then we have a hope. We have a foundational solid identity and we have a hope that gives us direction, that gives us purpose, that gives us A real motivation for what we do in life. When the Lord first gave this prophecy to his people through Isaiah some 2800 years ago almost, his people were in a bad place. In the earlier chapters of Isaiah, God had already said all sorts of bad things about his people. They were sinful. They were faithless. They were idolatrous. They had weak and corrupt leaders. They gave in to idols. They wanted to be like the nations around them. They were worldly. They were weak. And God had told them that there were some bad things coming their way. They were going to be disciplined by God. They were going to be sent to Babylon for exile and punishment for 70 years. A whole generation people were going to go from being little tiny children to being old men while they were in Babylon in captivity. And that, right there, look at all this bad stuff we've done. Look at what a mess we're in. And look at what's coming our way. Would have been enough to just why why bother? Who cares? But God gives them, in these latter chapters of Isaiah, he gives them a vision of what he is doing that is greater than their sin. God tells us at the end of Romans 5 that where sin increases, grace abounds all the more. God's grace is greater than our sin. God's redemption is greater than the consequences of our foolishness. And so God is giving them a message of redemption and hope that would remind them, even before they go into exile, would remind them of who they really are, of how God really sees them, and of what God is doing in them and through them. Who is speaking here? That's one of the questions we ask about Who's the I? For Zion's sake, I will not keep silent. For Jerusalem's sake, I will not be quiet. Well, the options are it's either the Lord Himself or it's the Lord's anointed the Messiah. And while there's not clear agreement on that, if you look back at chapter 61 that we did before Easter, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me Because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of prison to those who are bound. 61, the speaker is clearly Christ, the Lord's anointed. And it's, I think that's the most natural way to read 62, is it's a continuation of Christ speaking And so this is Christ speaking of what he is going to do and is doing in and through and for his people. He's emphatic in what he says. He's not going to be quiet. He's not going to keep silent until he accomplishes something. Until righteousness, the righteousness of God's people, goes forth as brightness and her salvation as a burning torch. The people of God, if you would ask them what they want, they would have said, we want salvation. But if you ask them, what does that mean? What what salvation are you talking about? They would probably have said, well, we want salvation from these Babylonians. who are pressing down upon us and who are going to take us captive. Lord, rescue us from the hands of the Babylonians. And if in Jesus' day, if you had asked God's people, what do you want, they would have said, we want Salvation. Okay, well, what does salvation mean? Well, it's these Romans that are beating down upon us and that are oppressing us. We want God to deliver us from the hands of the Romans. We're we're so short-sighted as creatures. We we don't understand what our real problem is and we don't understand what we really need. This morning in Sunday school w explore the idea of, you know, if we ask for something good from God, he's not going to give us something bad. Right? If we ask him for for fish, he's not going to give us a serpent. If we ask him for bread, he's not going to give us a stone. But then what about if we ask for bad things? What if we're asking for serpents? What if we're asking for stones? Guess what? God loves us too much to give us that. Some people, many people, sadly. We'll uh purchase a lottery ticket with a $200 million lottery prize, and they'll even be so bold as to pray. Lord, let me win this lottery. I could do such great things with this money. Thankfully, for most of God's people, He doesn't answer that prayer. If you know the stories of how many people's lives have been destroyed because they want a lot of money in the lottery, just you know. Sometimes what we want, sometimes what we think we need, sometimes what we're so desperate for, you know, I need that promotion at work. I need this. I need that. God doesn't give it to us. God knows what we need. And here, we see here, right in verse 1. There's a connection between two things. If you want salvation, what you need is righteousness. Righteousness goes forth as brightness, salvation as a burning torch. To have the salvation that we really need, we need a righteousness that we lack. The salvation that we really need is to be made right with God. to be made right in God's eyes and to have a place with God for all of eternity. We need the words that are here in Isaiah 62 to be true of us That we would not be God forsaken, that we would not be desolate spiritually, but that we would be delighted in by God and for all eternity. That we would be The treasured possession of God, that we would be God's own bride, God's own people, God's own dearly loved ones forever. That's the salvation we need. And in order to get that salvation, we need righteousness. Because God is perfectly righteous and God is perfectly holy, and there is no uncleanness in him. God is light, and in him there is no shadow of darkness at all. Heaven, the eternal glory to come, in the new heavens and the new earth Pure, love, light, holiness, righteousness, no sin, no injustice, no sorrow, no death To be fitted for that fellowship with God, we need to be righteous. Who gets into heaven Who can stand before God? If God says, why should I let you into my kingdom, my heaven, my eternal glory, who is qualified to get in? I have news for you. Only perfectly righteous people are qualified to get in to God's glory. What if God let sin into heaven? We've been down that road. A good creation, a very good creation, and then sin is allowed and entrance, and all of a sudden we have the mess that we're in today. Only perfectly righteous people. are qualified to enter God's glorious presence and be in fellowship with Him forever. So? Who's qualified? One person who's ever lived Jesus. He was perfectly righteous. He never sinned in thought, word, or deed. He pleased his father in everything he did. From his birth to his resurrection and ascension, no sin was found in him No stain, no wrinkle, no spot. One righteous man. But here's the good news of the gospel. On the cross, Jesus became sin For all of those who would put their trust in him, so that we can become the righteousness of God in him. God made him who knew no sin. to be sin for us, so that through him we might become the righteousness of God. That's the gospel. There's only one man who's qualified in and of himself, but everybody who's in Christ is qualified. God gave us the flood as an illustration of this. There was one man who found favor in the eyes of God, and that was Noah. But he built this great big ark and every living thing that took shelter in the ark, his wife, his sons, his sons' wives. and two of every animal, and seven of every clean animal, everything that took refuge in the ark was saved from the judgment of God. There is one man who has found favor with God by his own righteousness, and that is Christ Jesus. But he has built an ark, the church, his body, himself, his kingdom. The only way to get in is by faith in him. You have to believe. You have to come in not trusting in yourself, in your own salvation, not thinking, well, when I die. One day I'll stand before God and He'll put all of that things that I did in my life on a balance of scales, and the good will be over here, and the bad will be over here, and I think in the balance of it all, the good will outweigh the bad, and I'll get in. Two things about that. First, are you really sure? That the good in your life has outweighed the bad? Every wrong thought Every wrong desire? Every selfish thing. You sure the good would outweigh all of that? And second of all Even if it did, what are you gonna do with all the bad stuff? Because it's still there Tell you what, do an experiment. On the way home, if you see a police officer, run a red light right in front of the police officer. And when the police officer pulls you over, tell the police officer, but officer, there's been at least a hundred red lights that I stopped at this past week. And he'll say, well, as long as red lights stop that outwaves, red lights blown through, you get off. That's not how justice works Jesus says, Come to me, and I'll take the burden of your sin and I'll give you my perfect righteousness. And you can come in and be a part of this people of God, be a part of this glorious kingdom by grace alone, through faith alone, in Jesus Christ alone. We heard it earlier in the worship service, if you missed it, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, so that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe, is condemned already, because they have not believed in the name of God's only Son. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 was our confession of faith, for it is by grace that you've been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one can boast. For we are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. Do you believe? Are you in Christ? If you do believe, and you are in Christ Then do you believe that by being in Christ, by grace alone, through faith alone, not your own doing, Do you believe that by being in Christ, you are God's workmanship? And you are not condemned. Listen to how Jesus prayed for us in John 17. Because as we go on in Isaiah 62, Verse 2 talks about how the nations shall see your righteousness and all the kings your glory. Our glory? What glory do we have? Listen to how Jesus prayed for us in John 17 to hear what glory we have. Jesus praying. I do not ask for these only, meaning the disciples who are sleeping while he's agonizing in prayer, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. That's us. We believe in Jesus through the word of the apostles. in the Bible. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one Just as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one, even as we are one. I and them and you and me. That they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Father, I desire also that they whom you have given me may be with me where I am. to see my glory that you have given me because you love me before the foundation of the world. The very glory that the Father gave to the Son Christ has given to his church. To us. That's why we are a crown of beauty in the hand of the Lord. A royal diadem in the hand of our God. That's why we are no more forsaken or desolate, but we are called, my delight is in her. Some days what I want to call the Church of Jesus Christ is a red hot mess. Some days what I want to call myself is a red-hot mess. But God sees us in Christ, and He calls us my delight. Martin Luther in his Heidelberg disputation in 1518, he talks about how when God calls us something, it's different from the world. I can call these flowers beautiful because they are. Right? I recognize and I call it what it is. But Luther said this, the love of God does not find, but creates, that which is pleasing to it. And so we could have a pile of dirt up here, and God could say, those are beautiful flowers, and they would become beautiful flowers. Because the Word of God is powerful and effective to bring about what He declares to be true. And so when he says of that of us, we don't have to say, well, I can, look, I can look in the mirror and see what I see, and I know myself better than that. No, God has spoken in Christ what you are. And you are becoming that. Notice in the high priestly prayer, John 17, Jesus says, The glory that you've given to me, I have given to them. But then he says, I pray that one day they'll be with me and that they'll be able to see the glory. You see, we've been given the glory now, but we don't see it. That's why we walk by faith and not by sight. But one day faith will become sight and we will see the glory that we've already been given. C. S. Lewis put it this way in his wonderful sermon called The Weight of Glory. He says, you've never met a mere human being. Nations, civilizations, these things are temporary, but human beings are eternal. He says, everybody that you've ever seen, if you were to see them eons from now, they would either be So splendid and so beautiful that you would be tempted to fall down and worship them. Or they would be so hideous and vile as a creature of hell. And every day we are being made more and more into one or the other of those things. Either God's work is at word, God's word is at work within us. shaping us to match the reality of who we are in Christ. And when that is complete, we will be so glorious. Remember twice in the book of Revelation John was tempted to worship his escort, the messenger. And then Or we're on our own, we're in ourselves, trying to make our own case, and we're devolving into the darkness day by day But these words are true, not because they're true of us in and of ourselves, but because they're true of us in Jesus. And they're what Jesus is doing in and through us So, I want to clarify one thing, and that is, I've said this all along, but I hope you've caught it. These words, if you are in Christ. God says them about you personally, but he does not say them about you individualistically. He's talking about his people. His bride, his holy city, his crown that has many jewels. We are part of something bigger than ourselves And that means something. That means if I believe it's true of me, then I believe it's true of all of my brothers and sisters in Christ. And of us together, which means you can't love Jesus and not love his church. Or as John would say it in 1 John You can't love God. You can't say you love God whom you have not seen and you don't love your brother whom you have seen. Because if I believe that God's delight is in me then I have to believe that God's delight is in you. And if God's delight is in you as it is in me, then I have to delight in you as God is delighting in me. And it opens up, not only does it open up who we are, our identity and our identity, but it opens up what we're part of. It's part of something much bigger than us. So step one in living on the basis of who God says we are and what God's promise is to believe. Believe what God says about his people, including you. The second thing is the heart of it, and that is this call to persistent prayer. Once we believe it, once we say, yes, this is true, and it's true of all of us. We don't then get called to this passivity. We don't just get called to, God has saved me, God is saving me, Jesus take the wheel. I'm going to let go and let God. No. That's not what we're called to. We're actually called to, remember Ephesians 2, 8. 10. We are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God has prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. So we obey We follow because of what God is doing in us. We don't obey and follow in the hopes that we're going to earn something from God. We obey and we follow because of what God has already made of us and because of what God is making of us And the central thing that we're called to here is persistent prayer. Prayer is the work. It is the work of the Christian life because it is the work that acknowledges That it doesn't come from us. The fruit, the result, the blessing doesn't come from us. It comes from God. And so we persevere in prayer until God does what God has promised to do. You who put the Lord in remembrance, take no rest and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. By the way, after we're called to persistent prayer, in verse 10, we're called to diligent preparation, which we'll get to in a minute. Because God's going to do the work. We pray expecting to receive an answer. Well then we prepare for the answer to come. So in verses 6 and 7 he calls us to persistent prayer with very strong language, give him no rest. There's that praying with importunity, with impudence. And then verse ten is the emphasis, the double emphasis here, go through, go through the gates, prepare the way for the people, build up, build up the highway, clear it of stones. The doubling of those commands, go through, go through, build up, build up. The doubling of those commands is an intensification, diligent preparation. For God's work that He's going to do. So persistent prayer and diligent preparation. So what does faithful prayer look like? Well, in his Parables on Prayer, the overarching theme that Jesus teaches is our need for persistence in prayer. We are to pray and pray and pray and keep on praying. We had uh the illustration of of um The guy who has strangers come visit in the night. It used to be the case, okay, you have to imagine a world. Kids, this will be really hard for you. The older you are, the easier it is to imagine such a world. But imagine a world. There's no internet, there's no cell phones, there are no regular phones They're not even reliable mail service. And traveling is sketchy because you're going everywhere basically on foot and you're never quite sure how long you're going to make it in time. And one of the great virtues that's put forth in the Bible is hospitality. Now, we think of hospitality as, well, we'll have some folks over for dinner. And that's great. That is a form of hospitality. But when the Bible, you should know, when the Bible is talking about hospitality, what they mean is you should have a room in your house set aside four guests so that if anybody shows up at your front door and says, Do you have a place where I can stay tonight? You say, Yes, I do have a place where you can stay tonight. Here it is. Imagine that Just someone you don't know, but they might they might be a friend of a friend, like, oh your Uncle Joe, I you know I work with him and he's told me or or in the church it was a fellow Christian. I'm a Christian, I go to church in I go to church in Smyrna or Ephesus or whatever, and um I was told that you were a believer, do you have a place where I can stay? I'm going to be visiting here for a while. And sometimes it was like, how long are you going to be in town? Well probably about six or eight weeks. I've got some trading to do and I'm going to be worshiping with your church. Do you have a place? Yeah, here's a place where you can stay Stay. Hospitality. So the parable that Jesus tells, you know, your friend comes in the middle of the night and it's like, I'm here, and you realize, oh, I'm not really prepared. I don't have any food. So you go to a friend's house and you knock on their door, you're like, hey, hey, I got a visitor just came, I need some bread. The person says, Oh, I'm I'm asleep, I've locked the door, the kids are in bed, I I can't get up and get you anything And what does the person do? He says, oh, thanks. I'm not going to bother you anymore. No. Keep knocking. Keep knocking. Keep knocking. And eventually the person will get out of bed. And get you and Jesus says he won't do it because he's your friend or he likes you. He's gonna do it just to make you away. Like because you're being so persistent. Now the illustration, just like the The widow with the unjust judge, uh, she keeps making her appeal and the judge eventually gives her justice. It's an illustration by contrast. God is not inconvenienced by our prayers. God is not an unjust judge. But how much more does that call for persistence in prayer, knowing that we have a loving Heavenly Father who hears us and who will answer? When we persist in prayer One of three things happens. First, sometimes we persist in prayer. And the more we pray, and the more we search the scriptures, and the more we search our hearts, and we go back and pray more, the more we realize we're asking for snakes. And so we stop and we ask God to forgive us for asking for snakes, and then we start asking for fish. In other words, we realize we've been misguided. Sometimes, though, God wants to see if we're going to trust him. And he comes through and gives us exactly what we need, just when we need it, not a minute before. Right when we need it. You've probably heard the story of George Mueller who ran an orphanage for kids in Victorian, England. And didn't ever ask he never asked for funds. He never solicited donations, but he just prayed and trusted God. And one time they were sitting down to eat breakfast. And he prayed and thanked the Lord for what he had provided for them, even though there was not a thing of food or anything in the house. Just as he was praying, a milk cart out front got into an accident. and wasn't going to be able to deliver their milk wheel broke or something like that. And so the knock comes on the door as he's praying. saying, Mr. Mueller, I understand you have kids in here. I've got milk here. I can't get it delivered. It's gonna go bad. Do you want it? So sometimes God does that, the sort of milk that arrives at mealtime, kind of an answer But sometimes he answers us in a better way. In a way that expands our understanding of what is a good answer to our prayer. And this happens, frankly, whenever we're praying for a dearly loved one who has cancer or who has some sort of chronic disease, and we're praying for healing, and God takes them home. God answers the prayer in a better way than what we were asking for. It's more painful. It's not what we wanted. But he's answered because they are healed and they are home and they are free. But when we persist in prayer, we learn those things. If we give up, we don't learn those things. So don't rest and don't give God rest until, but notice what he's what the primary goal of the prayer is, until he makes Jerusalem a praise in all the earth. It's the glory of Christ through his church to the nations that should be the primary focus of kingdom-minded prayers. And we can pray specifically, as we know, like the Aringa people in northern Uganda who are 90% Muslim and About 1% evangelical. They're an unreached people group and they've had the gospel given to them. Lord, make Jerusalem a praise. Make Christ. and his church appraise in the Yumbe district of Northern Uganda, the Republic of Sudan, in wherever in the world, in Haiti. Where there's injustice. May there be justice that would glorify Christ and free his church. So we we pray. And the Lord's Prayer gives us Other priorities that we should be seeking in prayer, the hallowing of God's name, the coming of his kingdom, the will of God being done on earth as it is in heaven, God meeting the needs of his people day by day, our daily bread Deepening our dependence on Him for what we need day by day. Forgiveness of our sins and also a readiness to forgive others who've sinned against us. Jesus teaches us we should never pray for forgiveness of our own sins without remembering that we need to forgive those who've sinned against us. Keeping us from temptation, from wandering faithlessly away from God, and then deliverance from the enemy who opposes us in God's kingdom. We need to pray persistently for these things. And again, the call is to pray personally but not individualistically. It's not just for me and mine, it's us as the people of God. Not only to pray, but then to make diligent preparation. And I'll pick up the pace here. We're to make diligent preparation. Go through, go through, prepare. What are we preparing for? The coming of the Lord. And that could mean two things, primarily. We want to pray for and prepare for God to move powerfully among us to bring a revival, a reformation, a renewal among his people, to pray for that and to prepare for that But also Jesus is coming again, and he is going to judge the living and the dead, and he's going to make a final end of all evil. We need to pray for that. That's part of what we pray for when we pray, Your kingdom come. Your will be done. And we need to prepare for it. Clearing out stones and obstacles means We need to clear out the clutter from our lives and from the life of the church so we can focus on doing God's will. Repentance, seeking the Lord, living according to biblical priorities If God moves among us, we can't be too busy or too distracted by worldly things to be ready to embrace the movement and respond in loving obedience. There are three books. that God has used to convict me and that I've read because I needed to read them and I probably need to reread them. If you know me, you probably know that I need to reread them. them. And I'll just tell you briefly my recommendations. One is a little book called The Tyranny of the Urgent. It's all about clearing out stones. The tyranny of the urgent. The basic point of this book is that which is urgent in our lives and that which is important in our lives are rarely the same thing. And if we don't manage the tyranny of the urgent, there will continue to be urgent things that demand our attention, and they will continue to push out the important things. So we have to learn how to manage the urgent so as to put it under the Lordship of Christ and not be under its tyranny. Second book related to it is called Margins. or margin. Margin is a book that's all about how if every minute of every day is filled up with activity We will burn out, and there will not be room for rest, renewal, or for new things that God brings into your life that are actually important, more important than the things you're filling your calendar with. So margin is important. And the third book is When People Are Big and God is Small, and it's all about the fear of man. Because so often we get so busy, the urgent feels like tyranny, and we fill up our lives and don't have any margin left because We're fearing people more than God. Now that can be people pleasing. Oh, I can't say no to this opportunity because it would let so-and-so down. I don't want to let so-and-so down, so I have to say yes to this. And we just keep saying yes to everything. We keep saying yes to everything. And so sometimes we have to say no to certain things. God-honoring work. It's a work that blesses many people, but it's not work that God's called me to. And so I'm going to say no to it, I'm going to pray for it. and I'm going to let it be in someone else's hands. Or we do it out of fear of man. Like one can be people pleasing. The fear of like, oh if I don't do this, so and so's going to hate me. They're going to be really mad at me. They're going to be disappointed in me. They're going to And either way we get pressured by people into filling up our lives. So tyranny of the urgent. Margin, when people are big and God is small. Three great books. Recommend them, but also just recommend doing. My problem is I read great books and I'm like, that's really good, that's really good, that's really good, and I keep doing the things I shouldn't be doing. So we have to actually do what the books tell us to do, what God's Word tells us to do So we need to make preparation. Clear out the stones, clear out the obstacles, clear out the clutter, so we're ready for whether that's revival and renewal or the second coming of Christ. Think about it this way. Two quick questions. What would we do if a bunch of people, unbelievers, started coming to church, came to faith in Christ, and really wanted to grow in the Lord? Would we be ready to disciple them? Would we, who already know the Lord and who've been walking with the Lord for some time, would we be ready to say, yes, I can disciple this person, yes, I can disciple that person, yes, I can help this person Do we have room in our lives for that? Second, for the preparation for Jesus coming, what if Jesus came back today? Or tomorrow, would we be ready to look him in the eyes and say, I'll give an account for what I've done? And would we hear, Well done, good and faithful servant What God has called us and what God has called us to is profoundly wonderful. But he then calls us to persist in prayer and to make diligent preparation for it. So will we? The application is very simple, and that is, I think there's really four things that follow from this text. First is that our praise of God should be more passionate. The passionate praise of God. If God has been this good, when we sing things like glorious things of the earth spoken, or redeemed how I love to proclaim it, or glorious and mighty, or we're getting ready to sing Christ is mine forevermore. We need to sing from the heart, from the soul, as those who who know that this is true and it's wonderful. So our praise needs to be more passionate. Our prayers need to be more persistent. Our preparation in life needs to be more diligent, and our proclamation to the nations needs to be more powerful. One of the things I thought of is, what if God were to call some young people from our church to serve him full-time in missions? Would we as a church be ready to support them with prayer and with sacrificial giving to send them in the Lord? Our proclamation to the world must be more powerful. Because God is so good, because of what God has done, if we believe it, should shape everything about our lives. How we spend our money, how we spend our time, what we put down as the most important things, what are the immovables in our schedule, and what we aim our lives toward. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for Jesus, who is our righteousness and our salvation. Thank you for Jesus, who speaks these gloriously wonderful things of us, and they are true because he said them. Thank you. Thank you that we belong to Christ and He belongs to us. May that be the heartbeat of our lives every day. To glorify you, to seek your face, to follow you, to spread your name. In Jesus' name, amen.