Good morning and welcome to week three, day four of our Advent devotional series, Scripture and Care. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're looking at some of the great Advent and Christmas carols throughout church history. And today we're looking at Go Tell It on the Mountain. which is a traditional 19th century African-American spiritual. It's a very stirring call to evangelism to tell the good news of the birth of our Savior. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you so much for these times that we can have together spending time in your words, spending time thinking about the birth of our Savior, your Son, spending time thinking about and appreciating the rich heritage of Christmas carols and advent carols that we have received in the church. We pray that you bless our time together this morning and help us to see more of Christ and to answer the call of this carol in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Alright, go tell it on the mountain, as I said, is a traditional 19th-century African-American spiritual. And we hear echoes of Isaiah 52. 7 and Luke 2. 20. And also the Great Commission from Matthew 28, 18-20 in this wonderful carol. Isaiah 52, 7 talks about the mountains and says how beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news. Who publishes peace? Who brings good news of happiness? Who publishes salvation? Who says to Zion, your God Now the original cultural context of Isaiah 52, people would have heard this as describing the feet of messengers who are running on the mountains that surround Jerusalem. Jerusalem sits uh on a mountain, but it's also in the middle of this collection of seven mountains. And Messengers would run over the mountains, crying out to the watchman on the wall the outcome of a battle that might have taken place in the next valley or in a far-off plain. And they were bringing back news, good news, of victory, of salvation, of rescue from enemies. That's the the cultural background of this picture But ultimately, this Isaiah 52. 7 is setting us up for Isaiah 53, which is the ultimate good news salvation that comes through the suffering servant, who comes and is born for our salvation. So your God reigns. The good news of happiness is brought by those who bring the message on the mountains. And of course, Go Tell Mountain is specifically about the shepherds, right? The shepherds who were told by the angels to go and find the baby, and they did that. They went with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger, and when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child. And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen as it had been told them. It's a mountainous area, an area of hills. in the Judea area, about five miles away from Jerusalem, so not far away from Jerusalem, where these shepherds were out in the fields keeping watch over their flock by night. And when they were told the good news of the child, they went and found the child. But not only did they go and find the child, but they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child. They told the good news on the mountains of Judah near Jerusalem. And then they went after they had told Mary and Joseph, the Holy Family about this, they they went back and they returned glorifying and praising God. They had beautiful feet. They had great joy. They had good news of glad tidings, which the angels had told them about, which they had seen with their own eyes. Well, then we can fast forward to the end of Jesus' life and ministry here on earth, and he commissions his disciples. He gives us the great commission. He says, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. So this is our commission from Jesus as we're going into the world. As we are going about our lives, wherever God calls us and wherever God places us, we are to make disciples. We're to make disciples by baptizing them. In the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, and by teaching them to observe all that Jesus has commanded. And the good news is that He's with us always to the end of the age. So we are to go and tell. Right? We are to go and tell and proclaim and then disciple, baptize, and teach as those who have received the good news. We have an obligation to pass it on to others. Well, this wonderful Carol, it's one of the favorites this time of year, was collected and put down in writing by John Wesley Work, Jr. And uh this is a little story about this Carol from Gaither. com from the Gaither uh music people. John Wesley Work Jr. may not have originated the Negro spiritual go tell it on the mountain. But he can take credit for the fact that we still sing it every Christmas. As the son of a church choir director, Work grew up in Nashville loving music. Even though he earned his master's in Latin and went on to teach ancient Latin and Greek, his first love continued to be music. and he went on to become the first African American collector of Negro spirituals. This proved to be a daunting task for work because they were passed down orally from plantation to plantation and very few were ever written down. But work proved up to the challenge, publishing his first book, New Jubilee Songs. as sung by the Fisk Jubilee Singers in Songs of the American Negro six years later. It was this second volume Songs of the American Negro that had Go Tell It on the Mountain. The original singers of the song fulfilled the same important task the angels gave the shepherds that first night outside Bethlehem, proclaiming that Jesus Christ is born. And thanks to the work of John Wesley work, so can we. So nineteen oh seven is when this was written down, but its origins are back um pre-Civil War, the antebellum South, and the plantation spirituals of African Americans. So let's look at the lyrics. Go tell it on the mountain. Over the hills and everywhere, go tell it on the mountain that Jesus Christ is born. While shepherds kept their watching, or silent flocks by night, behold, throughout the heavens. There shone a holy light. And in the second verse, the shepherds feared and trembled when lo above the earth rang out the angel chorus that hailed our Saviour's birth. And the third verse, down in a lowly manger, the humble Christ was born, and God sent us salvation that blessed Christmas morn. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for sending us salvation when you sent us your Son. And it is our joyful privilege to be able to proclaim the salvation that you sent. to a world that needs to hear the good news of great joy in the coming of Jesus the Savior. Help us to proclaim it this Christmas season and always we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Well, as always, now we're going to listen to the Carol, so let's listen together to Go Tell It on the Mountain. Go tell it on the mountain. Over the hills and everywhere go, tell it on the mountain that Jesus Christ is born. While shepherds kept their watching O'er silent flocks by night, behold throughout the heavens Shone a holy light go tell it on mountain over the hills and everywhere go tell it. On mountain that Jesus Christ is born The shepherds feed and trample window Go both ears bring out the angel covers that held the save your spirit. Go tell Tell it on the mountain over the hills that everywhere go, tell it on the mountain that Jesus Christ is born. Down in a lowly manger, the humble Christ was born, and God's in a cell. Fish on the blessed Christmas morn go sallied on the mountains over the hillside every Go sell it on the mountain that Jesus Christ is born. Go sell it on the mountain. Over the hills that every echo tell it on the mountain that Jesus Christ is on. Go tallied on the mountain, over the hills and everywhere. So shall it only mountain that Jesus Christ is born