Good morning and welcome to week three, day two of our adventure. Devotionals, scripture, and carols. I'm Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We've been in a stretch of folk carols here. Some of these date back to the Middle Ages, but we don't know exactly when they were written, and they sort of emerged. merged among the people, and then they were later written down and later sort of brought into the church. That was true of yesterday's traditional French carol, Angels We Have Heard On High. Then it's true of today and tomorrow, as we're going to be looking at two um probably late medieval, but we're not exactly sure when they started, but two very old and very traditional English folk carols. Today it's God Rescue Mary Gentlemen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for this Christmas season. Thank you for the opportunity we have to gather together day by day in the weekdays and learn about these Christmas carols that we sing every year and most of the time we don't even think about what they really mean or where they come from. So we're slowing down to think, to consider more carefully these things that we have as treasures in your church. Where do they come from? What do they mean? What are they calling us to And we're also spending time in your word. So we pray that your Holy Spirit would bless our time for your glory in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. God rest ye merry gentleman is uh an old English carol. Um eighteenth century, or sorry, fifteenth century. Uh that would be like the 1400s. Maybe earlier than that, we don't know. Um but it's about joy. And actually with this one, punctuation Matters. Punctuation matters. So people often think about this as like God rest ye, merry gentleman, as in may God give you a good nap this Yuletide, you happy guys, right? Uh God resty, comma, Mary gentlemen. But it's not that, it's God resty Mary. or God keep you, Mary, which actually in the medieval English is more like strong and glad. uh full of joy, gentlemen. Well so will God make you or God keep you strong with joy, a sort of a joyful strength. and uh to to gentlemen. So uh we'll look at the history of the carol a little bit later, but first uh good news of great joy comes first to the shepherds, right? Luke 2, and in the same region There were shepherds out in the field keeping watch over their flock by night, and an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people This is kind of the original, God rest you Mary, gentlemen. God make you Mary. God make you with great joy. This great joy. Joy in the Bible is a source of strength. It's a source of power. It's it's it's the response to the good news. That makes us joyfully confident, hopeful, and strong in our spirits. And why? What is the good news of great joy? For unto you is born this day. in the city of David, a Savior who is Christ the Lord. It is the good news of what God has done. It's not the good news of what we're trying to do with our lives. Hey, good news, I'm finally gonna get my act together and get all the presents wrapped before Christmas Eve so we have a peaceful that's not that would be a nice goal. I don't know if it's gonna happen for us this year. Not looking likely at this point. But that's not the that's not the real joy of the season. It's not about getting the things on our task list done in the proper order or getting the right recipe made or having the right traditions. Those things are good, but the the great joy, the the merriness that the merriment that brings strength to our souls comes from the birth. The accomplishment of what God has done. We get a little bit more about the accomplishment of what God has done from Galatians 4. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. to redeem those who were under the law so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts crying, Abba. So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. When the fullness of time had come. At just the right moment in human history, God did the most remarkable thing. The eternal Son of God, the Son of Glory. The one who is with the Father and the Spirit, one God to be worshipped eternally in glory forever, this one, he came forth born of a woman. And born under the law, even though he was the embodiment of the law, even though he was the original giver of the law, because he is the Word of God He's born under the law. Why? To redeem those who were under the law. We were under the curse and condemnation of the law. We were lawbreakers. We had no hope. We had no future. We are redeemed from under the law. Why? So that we might receive adoption as sons. It's so much more than just having our sins forgiven. We're adopted as sons of God. And because we're sons, we have the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Adoption, as Romans 8 calls him, who causes our hearts to cry, Abba. Father, we're no longer a slave. Do you know this Christmas season that if you believe in Jesus, you are no longer a slave? You're not a slave to the condemnation of the law. You're not a slave to the fear of death. You're not a slave to sin. You are a son of God and an heir through God. That makes us merry in that deepest and strongest way. Well, God rest you, Mary, gentlemen, is one of the oldest English carols. It originates probably in the 15th century, maybe a little bit early. When I say 15th century, that's 1400, so we're talking about late medieval medieval times. It was a popular, lively response to the somber Latin-based music in churches. In the 1400s in England, this is pre-Reformation, everything is in Latin. Most of it is arranged to the point where it can only be sung by the monks or by the professional choir. It's dark, it's kind of dirgy. And it's inaccessible to the people. They can't even understand what's being said. And so from the people, from the populace emerges this carol As a joyful vernacular folk song of the common people sung by watchmen and others in the streets on Christmas Eve. Explaining the gospel in plain language, telling the story of the angel's message to the shepherds from Luke 2, emphasizing the tidings of comfort and joy against Satan's power. Centuries later, you know, in the early 1800s, 1820s, 1830s, there was a movement to write down these old folk carols because there was fear that they were being lost. And so it was written down. But it really gained popularity when it became part of Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol. When Scrooge, Ebenezer Scrooge, has a group of carolers coming to sing God rest you, Mary Gentleman, and he bah humbugs it. He bahs it, he rejects it, and and that sort of makes it take traction um within popular culture. It again, it was being sung. Obviously Dickens couldn't put it in a Christmas carol with a group of carolers singing it if nobody had ever heard of the song before. But it maybe wasn't as popular as it was. It was kind of an old fashioned thing and so it becomes revitalized. through Dickens Runaway Best Selling Book, A Christmas Carol. Well let's look at the lyrics. God rest you, Mary, gentlemen. Let nothing you dismay. Remember, Christ our Savior was born on Christmas Day. To save us all from Satan's power when we were gone astray. O tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy, O tidings of comfort and joy. In Bethlehem, in Israel, the blessed babe was born and laid upon a manger upon this blessed morn. The witch, his mother Mary, did nothing take in scorn. O tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy, O tidings of comfort and joy. Fear not, then, said the angel, let nothing you affright This day is born a savior of a pure Virgin Bright to free all those who trust in him from Satan's power and might. O tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy, O tidings of comfort and joy. Let's pray. Well Lord, we thank you for the good news of great joy. These tidings of comfort and joy. It gives us strength, gives us hope, gives us confidence. That we are not slaves and we are not under the oppression of Satan. We are not under the curse of our sin. We've been set free by a Savior. who has come to redeem us. Thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Help us to worship Him with joy this Christmas season and always in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, it's time now. Let's listen to God Resty Mary, gentlemen. God rest you, Mary, gentlemen, and let nothing you dismay. Remember Christ our Savior was born on Christmas Day to save us all from Satan's power when we were gone astray all timings of comfort and joy. But enjoy your tiny subcomfort and yo God bless you, Mary, gentlemen, nothing you can Remember Christmas Day, don't was born on Christmas Day. This day was told and saves bow and we were gonna trade. All tidings of comfort and joy. In that sun in Israel, the selected face of void, And laid with it a manger upon a selected moin, the witch's mother married in nothing taken. So it's all tidy the comfort and joy, come and joy, oh tight in the comfort and joy. And nothing you will find This greatest for the savior of a pure burden right from spring power and mine Oh dining of comfort and joy Comfort and joy O dining of comfort and joy Batin Batin Very gentle thing and nothing you display Remember Quest of Angel was born on Christmas Day To save us all the sweet and far, and we were gonna stay all time the car for enjoying.