Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're beginning our tenth week in the Heidelberg Catechism together. And today's devotional is actually a great follow-up on yesterday's sermon that I preached at Forest Hill on what it means to be a child of God, because we're starting with the first part of the Apostles' Creed today. I believe in God, the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig in today. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your love for us, for your faithfulness. Thank you for the gift that the Heidelberg Catechism is to your church Thank you for the way that it connects us to Scripture, helps us understand better what we believe, better who you are, that we might grow in our faith In you and our love for you and our understanding of you. We pray that you would do all this work in us today by your Holy Spirit in Jesus' name and for his glory in the church, we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, we are here and we are going to be looking at question 26, but first I want to do a little bit of review because we're in the Apostles' Creed section of the Heidelberg Catechism. So the Apostles' Creed is stated in question 23. What are these articles? I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead. and buried. He descended into hell. On the third day he rose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. So today we're going to be looking at the first article, the first of these twelve articles of our faith in the Apostles' Creed. But question 24 asks, how are these articles divided into three parts? The first part is about God the Father and our creation. The second about God the Son and our redemption. The third about God the Holy Spirit and our sanctification. And what's interesting is there are 12 articles. divided into three parts. And number one is the only one where the part one and article one are the same, the same length. I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of Heaven and Earth. And that's what our first Question on the Apostles' Creed proper, question number 26 deals with. This brings us to Lord's Day 9, which is how the Heidelberg Catechism is grouped into 52 Lord's Days meant to be taught over the course of a year. We're not doing these teachings on Lord's Days, but throughout the week. And we're just following through. This is week 10 for us, but we spent a little bit more time on some earlier questions. Anyway, so we're here on Lord's Day 9, question 26, and it is, what do you believe? When you say, I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth, I think that's a great way to ask the question because we profess this faith. We can say the Apostles' Creed, we can recite it, we can read it, but what do we believe? when we actually say that because these words have a deep meaning behind them. And the answer really unpacks the deep meaning behind these words. So when we say I believe in God, the Father, Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. What do we believe? Well, the answer that the Eternal Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who, out of nothing, created heaven and earth and all that is in them, and who still upholds and governs them by his eternal counsel and providence, is For the sake of Christ his Son, my God, and my Father. In him I trust so completely as to have no doubt that He will provide me with all things necessary for body and soul, and will also turn to my good, whatever adverse adversity he sends me in this life of sorrow. He is able to do so as Almighty God and willing also as a faithful father. That's a mouthful. That's a long answer. I was barely able to make it fit on the slide because really when we confess that we believe in God the Father Almighty Creator of heaven and earth. We're saying so much. We're saying that we believe that he's Almighty, that He's the creator of heaven and earth. He's not only the Creator, but the sustainer of heaven and earth. He's the He's the ruler of heaven and earth, and that He is God the Father, our Father So we're going to walk through this in Scripture piece by piece. So, first of all, that the eternal Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who out of nothing created heaven and earth and all that is in them. That first part we find in a couple of scriptures. Many, many places in the Bible. This is one of those where we could probably have a hundred scriptures, not an exaggeration. We could probably have a hundred scriptures in support of this one answer. But we would be here until next Monday. So we're going to try to be selective. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and by the breath of his mouth all their host. Psalm 33, 6. And then Isaiah 44, 24, thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, who formed you from the womb. I am the Lord, who made all things. who alone stretched out the heavens, who spread out the earth by myself. So God alone is the creator. of heaven and earth. He formed them by the word of the Lord. Now we know John 1 tells us that when it's we read by the Word of the Lord, that's Jesus. That's the second person of the Godhead. God the Son is the Word of God. And so when the Lord made the heavens by the word of the Lord, John 1 tells us, all things were made through him, and apart from him this was not anything made that was made, because Jesus is the word of the Lord. And God made all things by himself. He spread out the earth by himself. God didn't need anybody to help him. By his word, by himself, he created all things. Well then the next part of the answer is And who still upholds and governs them by his eternal counsel and providence. And again, there's many places we could go in answer to this. But Let's look at Psalm 104. Psalm 104 is a beautiful psalm that really celebrates God's providential care of his creation. God did not make the universe. winding it up like a clock, sticking it on the mantle, and walk away from it. He is intimately involved in the moment by moment governing and upholding of his creation. Psalm 104, 27 to 30, celebrates this. These all look to you to give them their food in due season. These all is all of the creatures. All of the creatures God has made, they all look to you to give them their food in due season. When you give it to them, they gather it up. When you open your hand, they are filled with good things. When you hide your face they are dismayed. When you take away their breath, they die and return to the dust. When you send forth your spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground. This is God by his Spirit. The Spirit who hovered over the face of the deep in Genesis 1 as the creation is still today. the one who brings life and creation to everything. God is intimately involved in all the details of his creation, in every creature. under heaven on earth and everything about his creation. That's so vital to know because it really sets us up for the next part of our uh answer, which is who still upholds and governs them by his eternal counsel and providence is for the sake of Christ, his son, my God, and my father. So knowing God is creator and God as providential sustainer of all creation, every mouse, every ant, every eagle, every mountain. Every lion, every star, every galaxy, all of it. He created it all by the word, by himself. He upholds and governs it all. This same God is the one who, for the sake of Christ his son, is my God and Father. Where do we get that? Well, John 1, 12-13. To all who did receive him, that is who received Jesus, who believed in his name, who believed in the name of Jesus, he gave the right. to become children of God who were born not of blood nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. Children of God, born of God. is how we are to understand everyone who has received the Lord Jesus by believing in his name And that's how the God who created everything and sustains everything is in Christ and for the sake of Christ, because I've believed in Christ, I've received Christ. For the sake of Christ, he is my God and my Father. And what does that mean to have him as my God and my father? Well here's what it means. In him I trust so completely as to have no doubt that He will provide me with all things necessary for body and soul, and will also turn to my good Whatever adversity he sends me in this life of sorrow, he is able to do so as Almighty God, and willing also as a faithful father. And for that, I think the best passage we can go to is Romans 8. And if you go to Forest Hill Church or you heard me preach yesterday or For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him. in order that we may also be glorified with him. And then verse 28 says, and we know that for those who love God all things work together for good. for those who are called according to his purpose. So we have the Spirit of God, the Spirit of Adoption. By that Spirit, we cry out, Abba, Father, we cry out to the Lord as our Father, as our daddy, as our Papa. And he bears witness that we are indeed his children. And as his children, we are his heirs. And he cares for us as his children. We are under his providential care in every detail. Everything. All things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose. So to call God our Father for the sake of Christ and to know that we are adopted into his family as his children is rich gospel comfort. The God who created everything, the God who upholds and governs everything, the God who watches over great and small, with infinite and eternal wisdom, as Almighty God. is willing, as our faithful Father, to to provide all things necessary. That's what providence is. Providence is the providing that God makes. God provides for the creatures. If he's going to provide for the mountain goat, And the horse and the whale, of course, is going to provide for his own children. What's he going to provide? All things necessary for body and soul and turning for our good, whatever adversity he sends me. This is the comfort we have. In Christ, God Almighty is our Father. And he loves us fully, richly, faithfully, and wisely. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for all that you've given us, for all that you are to us in Jesus. We praise you that we have such a Father as you. Help us to walk in your ways. Help us to trust you. Trust you unreservedly, wholeheartedly, knowing that you provide for us all that we need for body and soul, life and eternity. And that you order all things for our good and for your glory. This is true. We must stand on this by faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, I think the best way to respond to today's teaching is by singing together, This is my father's world. This is my father's work. And to my listening gifts All nature sings and around me rings the music of the sphere. This is my father the world. I rest me in the thought of rocks and trees. The skies and seams is tender wonder strong Is my fast world The bird's death carried The morning light the really white I declare their maker spread. It my father's work, he shines in all that's back. In the road of fingers, I hear him does He speaks to me everywhere. This is my last work. Oh, let me never forget that love. So the wrong is all so strong that is a deep my father's woe. The battle is not done, she has two time shall be hard to be.