Turn with me to Isaiah twenty-nine. Isaiah twenty-nine. Just a little bit of setup for the passage. Again, I think this passage is telling us how the Lord God is mighty to save. And in verses 1 through 8 We see that he is mighty to save from external enemies that threaten God's people. But the deeper problem, the external enemies threaten God's people because of our sin and our waywardness. And so in verses 9 to 24 we see how he is mighty to save us from ourselves, from our sinful unfaithfulness. So, Isaiah 29. Hear the word of God. Ah, Ariel, Ariel. The city where David encamped. Add year to year, let the feasts run their round, yet I will distress Ariel. And there shall be moaning and lamentation. And she shall be to me like an Ariel. And I will encamp against you all around, and will besiege you with towers, and I will raise siege works against you, and you will be brought low. From the earth you shall speak, and from the dust your speech will be bowed down, and your voice will come from the ground like the voice of a ghost. And from the dust your speech shall whisper. But the multitude of your foreign foes shall be like small dust. and the multitude of the ruthless, like passing chaff. And in an instant Suddenly, you will be visited by the Lord of hosts with thunder and with earthquake and great noise, with whirlwind and tempest. and the flame of a devouring fire, and the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, all that fight against her and her stronghold and distress her shall be like a dream A vision of the night. As when a hungry man dreams, and behold, he is eating and awakes With his hunger not satisfied, or as when a thirsty man dreams, and behold, he is drinking, and awakes faint with his thirst not quenched, so shall the multitude of all the nations be that fight against Mount Zion. Astonish yourselves and be astonished. Blind yourselves and be blind. Be drunk, but not with wine. Stagger, but not with strong drink. For the Lord has poured out on you a spirit of deep sleep, and has closed your eyes, the prophets, and covered your heads, the seers. And the vision of all this has become to you like the words of a book that is sealed. When men give it to one who can read, he says, And say, saying, read this, he says, I cannot, for it is sealed. And when they give the book to one who cannot read, saying, read this, he says, I cannot read. And the Lord said, Because this people Draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men. Therefore, behold, I will again do wonderful things with this people. with wonder upon wonder, and the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning shall be hidden. All you who hide from the Lord your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, Who sees us? Who knows? You turn things upside down. Shall the potter be regarded as the clay? That the thing made should say, Of its maker, he did not make me? Or the thing formed, say of him who formed it, he has no understanding? Is it not yet a very little while? Until Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be regarded as a forest. In that day the deaf shall hear the words of a book, and out of their gloom and darkness the eyes of the blind shall see. The meek shall obtain fresh joy in the Lord. And the poor among mankind shall exult in the Holy One of Israel. For the ruthless shall come to nothing, and the scoffer cease, and all who watch to do evil shall be cut off. Who by a word make a man out to be an offender, and lay a snare for him who reproves in the gate, and with an empty plea turn aside him who is in the right Therefore, thus says the Lord, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob, Jacob shall no more be ashamed No more shall his face grow pale, for when he sees his children, the work of my hands in his midst, they will sanctify my name. They will sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and will stand in awe of the God of Israel, and those who go astray in spirit will come to understanding. And those who murmur will accept instruction. Let's pray. Father, there is such good news in this chapter of your word Would you please make it clear to us? Proclaim your power and your goodness. Help us to see our need and turn our hearts to you as only you can. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. If you ask most people, what are the biggest problems that you're facing in your life? And they were to respond off the top of their head, things that are pressing on them, almost all of their answers are likely to be external. The problems that I'm facing, well, my house needs repairs and I don't have money to fix it. Or my car needs to go to the shop and it's going to be expensive or my marriage is not in a great place because my wife is just so or my husband is just so or my kids This or our country is doing this or whatever. But if we sit down and get honest between ourselves and God, we will have a deeper understanding that the biggest problems we actually face in life come from right here. Because that colors and and changes how we see everything that we have around us. Why aren't we as thankful as we should be? Why do we grumble? Why do we go astray from what we know is right? Why do we have conflict in our marriages? Why why do we get stressed out and overwhelmed by what's going on in the world? it has much less to do with what's happening out there and much more to do with what's happening in here. You all know, I think, that one of my favorite books of all time, besides the Bible, is Pilgrim's Progress. And one of the things I love about Pilgrim's Progress, and one of the reasons why it's been one of the best-selling books in history, and one of the most widely translated and adapted books in history, is that Pilgrim's Progress telling the story of Christian who's a pilgrim who's going from the city of destruction on a pilgrimage to the celestial city. Along the way he encounters every kind of challenge and obstacle imaginable. And you're sort of taken along for the ride on the story and you're wondering what is Christian going to have to deal with next and how is he going to be able to overcome it? And so he gets attacked from the outside, uh but in the form of the monster Apollyon and you know demonic beings that shoot arrows at him, or uh he He's tempted by the world at Vanity Fair, where they actually put him on trial, arrest him and put him on trial, and his friend Faithful is killed. But in other times, the problems that Christian faces very much come from himself He falls asleep in the arbor on the hill difficulty and he loses his scroll. He has to go back and get it and he's lost in the night. He wants to go into the Palace Beautiful, which is a place of refuge, but there's these lions and he's afraid. He he goes off the path because it looks like this way will be easier, and so in looking for the easy way out, he ends up being taken captive in Dowding Castle for a long time, being held by the giant despair until he's almost dead. And if you haven't read Pilgrim's Progress, and none of this makes any sense to you, well, read Pilgrim's Progress. There's a wonderful audiobook version of it, by the way, read by Max McLean, that I highly recommend if you're not a big reader, but you have always wondered about Pilgrim's Progress. This is not like a commercial commercial plug, but um frankly it's how my kids got through it when they were assigned to read it for school and they're like, this book is hard. I say, okay, here's an audio version. Max McLean's a great great uh storyteller so that's I recommend it. So all these challenges, 345 years Pilgrim's progress has been and a consistent best-selling book and much-loved book because it speaks to all of these kinds of challenges. To live as a Christian in this world is to face challenges, to face struggle. And we know that some of the struggles seem to come from out there. You know, we live in a culture that is increasingly hostile to the Christian faith and a culture that's becoming very morally twisted and upside down and where good is called evil and evil is called good. Uh we we know that Christians around the world face intense persecution, much, much worse than we have it, where they actually face arrest and imprisonment and the burning of their homes and their churches just for being Christians. And that's hard, right? That can be very discouraging. But we also deal with the discouragement of our own hearts because we're weak and we're wayward and we're easily distracted and we're easily discouraged. And now this is none of this is to say, and hear this very clearly, although living as a Christian in this world is a challenge. Always has been and always will be until Jesus comes again. It is not to say that life in Jesus is itself an unending challenge or a test or a crisis. Life is fundamentally a gift. And that is why our fundamental posture should be one of thank Thanks giving. Because every day we are given the gift of life that we don't deserve, and every day we should say thank you But there are challenges and tests that we face. The Apostle Paul told Timothy, all those who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Jesus told his own disciples, if the world hates you, know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own, but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. And then we deal with our own internal struggles. Sometimes we Grumble and complain because we have our eyes on our desires rather than on the goodness of the gifts that God has given us. We're lazy, we're apathetic, we look for the easy way out. We are persistently and ridiculously selfish. If you really think about how much you just go on the default mode of, well, what do I want to do? I'm going to do that. What do I want to have? That's what I'm going to have. Do you ever try to get somewhere and you're running a little bit late and you get really upset that there are so many people who have decided to be in your way? As if somehow it's a conspiracy against you. Who are all these people? Where do they come from? Why can't they go live somewhere else? Don't they know they're in my way? Like it's ridiculously selfish. But the good news of this passage is that God is mighty to save. No matter what challenge we face, whether it's external or internal, God God is mighty to save. And he shows us here how it is that he saves his people. So let's begin with the external threat. And let's go back and look at verses 1 to 4 again. Ah, Ariel, Ariel, the city where David encamped, Add year to year let the feasts run their round, yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be moaning and lamentation, and she shall be to me like an Ariel. And I will encamp against you all around, and I will besiege you with towers, and I will raise siege works against you, and you will be brought low From the earth you shall speak, and from the dust your speech will be bowed down, your voice will come from the ground, like the voice of a ghost, and from the dust your speech shall whisper. Now, the Lord addresses Jerusalem as Ariel Ariel. It has nothing to do with the Little Mermaid. Sorry, girls. There's a lot of discussion of what does this mean, and it's actually why it's left untranslated in our translation. Like w what what does it mean, Ariel? Hebrew? Well, Ariel has two different meanings, and two very different meanings. We have it in English too. We have certain words that mean two very different things. So this word can mean lion of God or hero. A very positive connotation, as in the line of the tribe of Judah, as in the great hero David. And I think that's the first meaning that's in mind here, where it's Ah, Ariel, Ariel, the city where David encamped. That's how Jerusalem like to view themselves as the Ariel, the lion of God, the hero. But the other meaning is an altar hearth, that is a place for burnt offerings. a place where you would burn things that are being sacrificed to God. Now commentators go back and forth as to which does Ariel here mean lion of God or hero or does it mean altar hearth? And I think that it's intended to be a play on words. In other words, the conclusion of it in verse 2 is, she shall be to me like an Ariel, this lion of God, this hero city. that views itself as being impenetrable. That's the the uh add year to year, let the feast run their round. Jerusalem saying, look, all these other nations all around us may be getting sacked by the Assyrians, but we're doing just fine. Thank you very much. Year after year, festival after festival, feast after feast, we're doing just fine. Thank you very much. And so that's what they and they're in that sense they view themselves as the hero of God, the lion of God But they're going to be like an ariel. They're going to be like an altar horse. They're under threat of being burned. And what's interesting about this is that while it is the great and mighty Assyrian Empire that's threatening Jerusalem, God says this is his action. I will distress Ariel and I will encamp against you all around and will besiege you. And I thought that was the Assyrians who were going to do that. Oh, yes, it is. But the Assyrians will be God's instrument. Sometimes we try very hard as Christians to thread a very fine needle of acknowledging that God is sovereign over all things while at the same time wanting to safeguard God from any accusation of wrongdoing by insisting that of course he is not the author or the agent of evil. And this is correct. That's right. God is sovereign over all things, and yet in such a way that He's not the author or agent of evil. And that's that's right. It's a mystery. We don't understand exactly how it works, but people make their free will decisions for which they are responsible, and yet God is sovereign over all over all to work out his will. But it seems to me that if you actually spend a lot of time in God's Word, God's own word is not about the business of carefully threading theological needles. God simply states the blunt truth. And that is that Jerusalem has been arrogant and callous and deceitfully wicked, and God is going to discipline them. The paddle in his hand might be called Assyria, but he's the one bringing it against their backsides because they need the distance. I think about where we are in America. Sometimes Christians are wondering what's coming for us. We see the culture becoming hostile to biblical Christianity more and more, it seems, with each passing year. An intolerance of our perspective, as our perspective on life is called hateful and bigoted and And we're compared to Nazis and all sorts of other fun things. And we think, I wonder what's coming But perhaps we need to see whatever is coming as discipline and purification from the Lord that we deserve because of our own worldliness. And our stubborn unfaithfulness. Because the church in America has had it pretty good for a pretty long time. And to be frank about it, we've used that relative wealth and comfort to be complacent and selfish And so maybe God is bringing outside forces to oppose us, but maybe it's because he's trying to wake us up. And as those things come, maybe come, we don't know what's coming in the future, but as those things may become, we need to look at verses 5 through 8 and realize that whatever comes, in whatever form it comes. That could be the street gangs that rove around in Haiti threatening God's people. It could be uh Islamic extremist groups in Nigeria that kidnap uh Christian girls. It could be uh radical Arabic militias in Sudan that are targeting uh black Africans, many of whom are our Christian brothers and sisters. It could be uh whatever it could be, right? What is all of that in the face of God? What is all of that compared to the Lord God Almighty? Take all the multitude of all the problems that all of God's people face all over the world, and what are they all collectively? compared to God. You know what they are? Look at verse five. But the multitude of your foreign foes shall be like small dust. And the multitude of the ruthless like passing chaff. What are they? Keep them all on one side of the scale, all of the enemies of God's people from all around the world, whatever form they take. Put them all on one side of the scale and put the Lord on the other side and all of a sudden they're just a little bit of dust. It's just it's going to be blown away. Isaiah 40, which we'll get to sometime, says, All the nations of the earth are as a drop in the bucket with the finest dust on the scale. And here's what God's able to do. Continuing in verse 5, and in an instant, suddenly, you will be visited by the Lord of hosts with thunder and with earthquake and great noise, with whirlwind and tempest and the flame of a devouring fire. And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, all that fight against her and her stronghold and distress her shall be like a dream, a vision of the night. As when a hungry man dreams, and behold, he is eating, and awakes with his hunger not satisfied, or as when a thirsty man dreams, and behold, he is drinking, and awakes faint, and his thirst not quenched So shall the multitudes of all the nations be that fight against Mount Zion. Nothing. Nothing. I love that imagery in verse 8. It's this funny analogy of a hungry man who's dreaming that he eats and he wakes up in the sun. This is because the Assyrians got pretty close to Jerusalem. They actually had taken out all the fortified towns that were all around the nation of Judah, and they had encircled around Jerusalem, the capital. So imagine an invading uh power coming into America. You know, they take out Boston, they take out New York, they take out Baltimore, they take out Richmond, and they're closing in on Washington, D. C. That's the picture of what had happened. The great Assyrians, the most mighty empire the world had ever seen to that point, really a multitude of nations contained in this one empire. They're coming, they're coming. And they get so close to the city. They get so close that they can taste the spoils of victory. They get so close that at one point their Rab Shekha, the sort of prime minister, foreign ambassador of the emperor, he he taunts the leaders of Jerusalem and says, I'll tell you what, guys, we will give you 2,000 horses. If you can find people to ride them. Like, we'll give you our extra, our leftover cavalry, if you have enough people to ride them. There's no way, there's no chance So they're tasting the spoils of victory. But they're going to find out very quickly that they're going to wake up and it's all going to be a dream. Because the angel of the Lord in one night is able to come and wipe out the whole threat in an instant, in a moment. And it would be like someone who sits down and eats a huge Thanksgiving dinner and sits down in the chair and loosens up their pants and stretches out to watch some good football and then is It's morning time and they wake up and it's I'm hungry. I haven't had anything to eat at all. That's what they're gonna be left with. Nothing for all their dreams. Here's what we need to get from this. We do not ever need to fear external threats that come against God's people. The talking heads and the chattering voices who protest on college campuses or talk on the cable news We don't need to worry about them. We need to sit there and say, oh, what are they going to do to us? We're in Christ. Whatever comes is going to come because God allows it. It might come because we need some discipline. But if we are in Christ, we are secure. We are safe. He is our strong Savior, and He knows well how to deliver His own. But that doesn't mean that we should just sit back and be complacent because the bulk of this chapter is not about the external threat. If you had gone to Jerusalem when this chapter was being given and you asked them, what's your biggest problem, they would say Duh, it's the Assyrians. They're on the march. And God would have said, uh, duh on you, it's your hearts. Why do you think the Assyrians are on the march? The problem is not out there. It's in here. And so God says in verse 9, astonish yourselves and be astonished. Blind yourselves and be blind. That means the worst problems that you're facing right now is what you've done to yourself. And so God is now going to pour out judgment. Be drunk, but not with wine, stagger, but not with strong drink, for the Lord has poured out upon you a spirit of deep sleep. has closed your eyes, the prophets, has covered your heads, the seers, and the vision of all this has become to you like words of a book that is sealed. When men give it to one who can read, he's and says, Read this, he says, I can't, for it's sealed, and they give the book to one who can't read and say, Read this, and he says, I can't read. And the Lord says, Because this people, listen This is the whole reason. This is the because in verse 13. Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me. And their fear of me is a commandment taught by men. Therefore, behold, I will again do wonderful things with this people. with wonder upon wonder, and the wisdom of their wise shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden. Ah, you who hide deep from the Lord your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, Who sees us? Who knows? You turn things upside down. Shall the potter be regarded as the clay? The thing made should say of its maker, he did not make me, or the thing formed of him who formed it, he has no understanding. Let's see if any of this sounds familiar. There is a formal outward display of religion. But an inward callousness, ignorance, apathy, half-heartedness. And then they go home and they do things in the dark. They do things behind closed doors. They do things in the privacy of their own home that they know is wrong, and they say, eh Who's gonna know? Who's gonna see? And they even get so bold as to say No. God didn't make us. We made God. Our culture says that exact thing right now, by the way. God didn't make us. We made God because we needed something to comfort us. Literally, shall the potter be regarded as the clay and the thing made, say of its maker, he did not make me And those and those who do talk about God at all are like God's bad, right? Or the thing formed, say of him who formed it, he has no understanding. This is a picture, I think. of modern American Christianity and a modern American culture, except it's Jerusalem, you know, 2700 plus years ago. But Spiritual drunkards under God's judgment is the first problem in verse 9. Their prophets and seers are blind, the whole people are spiritually asleep. As to judgment from God, verse 10. Verse 11 and 12, they're unable and uninterested in understanding the vision of the Lord. People sell millions of books to Christians, to Christians, saying things that are blatantly contradictory to things that are directly and clearly in the Bible. And I look at this and I sometimes think, These are Christian best-selling books. Have people not read the Bible? Of course the answer is no, they haven't. Because for years, we've known that only about 10% of church-going professing Christians read the Bible regularly outside of church. So no, they don't. If we have a Bible, many of us have it on our phone in 25 or 30 different English translations with audiobook accompanying and study tools that are right there at our fingertips. And we just say, I'm too busy, I'm too distracted, I'd rather watch football. I need to spend some time on YouTube. It's very important that I catch up on all these shorts that are an unending stream. Like, we're blind, but who's blinded us? We have We're astonished, and that word is like dazed and confused, right? We're dazed and confused spiritually, but who has dazed and confused us? We have. Through sheer neglect, because we're outwardly calling ourselves Christians, outwardly coming to church, outwardly identifying with Christ, but inwardly we're uninterested Right? Sometimes we this this this whole picture in verse 12, you know, you've got this scroll and you give it to someone who can read and they say, I can't read it, it's sealed. Well then unseal it. If it's important, open it, right? Or you give it to someone who can't read and say, read this, I can't read it. Well then find someone who can read it. Like there's a simple solution to both of these problems, right? And this is, look, I'm going to step on toes and I'm just going to say it. Okay? People say, well, I've tried reading the Bible. It's hard. I don't understand it. Well, then get someone who understands it and let them help you. It's there, it's available. Or you say, uh, you know, it's It's boring. I don't it doesn't connect with me. Well, pray and ask the Lord to prepare your heart to receive and and look for him in his word And ask him to convict you of where you're coming from, or find out what it is in your life that's keeping God's word being boring to you. We need to read, study, understand, and apply God's word to our lives. And we need to stop sinning in secret and think we're getting away with it. And we need to absolutely reject the nonsense of the culture that wants to judge God. Our culture is adopting a creed, you've heard this before, it's the creed of the modern atheist and agnostic. Our culture is adopting a creed that says, I don't believe in God, and he's a jerk. That is the creed of our culture. I don't believe in this God of yours and he's bad. We need to not fall for that bait and just say, oh, well let me explain to you why God's not so bad as you think. God has proven himself. Time and time again, you know there's a God. Open your eyes and look around you. You know there's a God. Jesus Christ is risen from the dead. And he is Lord of all. And you can stay in a place where you're judging God and you're angry at God and see where that gets you. Where you can realize how wrong that attitude is and repent and seek God and have Him give you mercy. Mercy, because here's the good news. Remember, the theme of this is God is mighty to save. Here's the good news. Even all of that stuff, God is able to save us from it. And that's really what the last part of the chapter is about, 17 to 24. In that day, it says, Is it not yet a little while until Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field be regarded as a forest? That's a classic verse where you might read it and say, I have no idea what that even means. But it's talking about a reversal. Lebanon was known for its trees. It's it's a heavily forested area where they got the cedars of Lebanon. It was a forest. And it's going to be turned into a fruitful field. And then the fruitful fields were further to the south. They were in Israel. And that fruitful field is going to be regarded as a forest. It's going to be overgrown with wild. There's going to be a reversal. In that day the deaf shall hear the words of a book, and out of their gloom and darkness the eyes of the blind shall see, the meek shall obtain fresh joy in the Lord, and the poor among mankind. Here's the reality. Let me just quickly summarize this for you. At this time the only place in the world where anybody knew who the one true God was was in Judah and Jerusalem. Israel's already been conquered. by this time. So you have this little tiny spot in the world, Judah and Jerusalem, where people know the one true God. And even there, it's pretty pathetic. It's like half-hearted, mixed in with idolatry. But they're the ones who know the one true God, right? Now it says, is it not yet a very little while? Here's one of the things you've got to know in the Bible. Sometimes the Bible says a very little while because it is very little while from God's perspective, but from our perspective what's talked about here doesn't happen for another 750 years. And that is Jesus comes into the world. And when Jesus comes into the world, all of a sudden, the knowledge of the one true God explodes. Into a worldwide movement, into places that had never known about God. Do you know that within 35 years, within 35 years of the death and resurrection of Jesus, and kids, that's not very long. 35 may sound old to you, but it's not at all. It's very little. Within 35 years of the death and resurrection of Jesus, the the good news about the one true God is known as far west as Spain. as far east as India, as far south as Ethiopia. That's how far the knowledge of God spreads. The forested places, the dark places, they become fruitful fields. And churches are planted all over the world. And yet at the same time, that one place that had been a fruitful field becomes a forest because they sink. into spiritual ignorance because the one people who most rejected the one true God was Jerusalem and Judah. So that's what he's talking about here, but he's talking about how God is able to overcome all of this. The very end of it says, those who go astray in spirit will come to understanding. Those who murmur will accept instruction. That's good news for us. Because God will, God can and will still our wayward feet and grant us faithfulness by his grace. He can and he will quiet our murmuring hearts and make us teachable in spirit. He can save. He can take those who are spiritually dead and make us alive. And he can take the prodigals who have wandered into the far country and call them back home. He can't Can do that and he will do that. He has done that, he is doing that. He is mighty to save. So our hope, in the light of all the stuff going on out there, is that it's all just little dust on the scale compared to God. If God didn't want it bothering us or harassing us, he would just say and it would be gone. But if it's coming for us, maybe we need to pay attention that we need to repent of the problems in here that are causing it. And then the problems in here, once we become aware of those, God is just as easily able to set us free from those things. He's able to take deaf people and cause them to hear. He's able to take blind people and cause them to see. He's able to take dead people and cause them to live. Get them back on the path. He is mighty to save. No matter what obstacles we're facing, nothing is impossible for the Lord Almighty, who is our Father and our God. Not changing cultural realities, not the lukewarm waywardness of the church. We Need revival from the Lord, and God will revive us as we cry out to Him. He can. He will. So my closing plea is let's cry out to him. Let's cry out to him for the revival we know we need right here in our own hearts. Say, Lord, I'm lukewarm. I'm easily distracted. I'm half-hearted in my devotion to you Set my heart on fire. Lord, my family, my home. We're not a display of the love of Christ. We're we're divided, we're distracted, we're we're filled with conflict and strife and and and busy with too many things of the world. Father, make us a place where your grace is manifest. Set our hearts and our homes on fire for you and our church when we gather together. Let it not just be, oh, it's Sunday morning. Let's go to church again and we'll sing the things and we'll go. Let us come eager to hear and eager to receive and eager to believe. Set our church on fire, O Lord. And then through us spread the light of Christ to our neighbors and to the nations. Let's seek the Lord for that. Let's pray for that. Let's pray. Father, we have no reason to fear. We have no reason to fear the things that are out there in the world. We have no reason to be ultimately discouraged and in despair over the things we find in our own hearts. Because you are the mighty Savior. You are the Lord God Almighty, and nothing is impossible with you. And so we ask. You tell us, ask, and we will receive. Lord, revive our hearts. You tell us to seek, and we will find we are seeking, that you would be among us as your church to revive us again. You tell us to knock, and the door will be open. We are knocking. We are knocking, and we're saying, Lord, save us from ourselves. Lord, make us your holy people. Lord, lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. Lord, shine your light in us and through us. We pray Say this in the mighty name of Jesus our salvation. Amen.