Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals as we are seeking gospel comfort And seeking God to teach us and to move us from guilt through grace to gratitude. If we're believers, this gives us a deeper understanding of how God has done this work and is doing this work in our lives. It helps us to pray for those we know and love who are not believers. And so we're we're learning, we're journeying step by step through this wonderful set of questions and answers that were put together almost five hundred years ago but are based on scripture and saturated with scripture. When when the authors of the Heidelberg Catechism put together the catechism, they said, here's the scripture that we got it from and that's where we're getting our Bible that I'm sharing with you is almost always coming from the footnotes that are with the Heidelberg Catechism. A couple of exceptions I do sometimes dabble into another scripture or two, but but uh they've they've given us their They're proof of this is really what the Bible teaches by the scriptural footnotes that they've included. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into question nine today. Father in heaven, thank you for the truth of your word. Thank you for the gift that the Heidelberg Catechism has been to you. your church for almost 500 years. We are blessed and thankful for the truth that you have preserved in Scripture and the truth that you have passed on to us. Generation after generation, you are the faithful God of the covenant of grace. So Lord, please write your word on our hearts. Please illuminate our minds and help us to see your truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, let's get into question nine. But first, we're going to review what we looked at last time. We were on question eight. But are we so corrupt that we are totally unable To do any good and incline to all evil? The answer was yes, unless we are regenerated by the Spirit of God. Now that raises a question. I love the logic of a of a well-written catechism because it'll flow from one to the next and it'll lead us to the scriptural uh sources for these answers to these questions that would naturally come up as you're thinking through this. So if we're totally unable to do any good And by nature, we're so corrupt that we're inclined to all evil. The question then can become, question nine. But does not God do man an injustice by requiring in his law what man cannot do? Does not God do man an injustice by requiring in his law what man cannot do? The answer is no For God so created man that he was able to do it. But man, at the instigation of the devil, in deliberate disobedience, robbed himself and all his descendants of these gifts. So it's not God's fault. Some people want to blame God, say, well, if I'm unable to do good, then that's God's fault. He made me like this And that's just not true. God made us very good. In Genesis 1, when God was finished making Adam and Eve in his image, he said at the end of day six, he saw all of his creation. And he said that it was very good. And that included humanity, male and female, Adam and Eve, made in his image. Very good. But Then trouble came. And we looked at Genesis 3 before, but we're going to go back and we're going to see what happened. Now the serpent was more crafty. than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? So what happened? Well, Catechism 9 tells us, at the instigation of the devil, in deliberate disobedience robbed himself and all of his descendants of these gifts. Here comes the devil. Did God actually say, you shall not eat of any tree in the garden? Satan attacks the truthfulness, the reliability of God's Word If you are tempted in your mind to question the truthfulness of the Word of God, did God really say that? Is this thing written in the Bible, is that really the Word of God? Did he really Because of course it takes a step from there, doesn't it? Did God actually say, and then it becomes, oh, you will not surely die? Becomes a direct contradiction. You will not surely die For God knows that in the day that you eat of it, your eyes will be opened and you will see like God sees So it is the instigation of the devil to undermine the authority of God, and the authority of God always comes through the Word of God. That's why I think it's an absolute lintmus test for a believer to believe in the inerrancy of Scripture the verbal, plenary, inspiration, and inerrancy of Scripture. What does that mean? It means that what is in the Bible is breathed out by God, 2 Timothy 3. 16. It is the very Word of God. The very words all throughout, verbal plenary, plenary means all throughout, the very words all throughout are the Word of God. Given by inspiration, by God-breathedness. Breathed out. The way Peter puts it, men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. Now, God used The the the men and who wrote the scriptures in in what we call organic inspiration, so they weren't automatons. It wasn't like they went into a trance and God moved their pens along. No They were doing research, they were conducting interviews, they were compiling records, but God was giving the word through These men, so that it was in fact the Word of God. Men and women, we should say, because there are prophetesses who spoke, and we have we have words in scripture that come from women. So these men and women Spoke and wrote as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. So we need to believe in the verbal plenary, inerrant. There is no error, there's no misleadingness, there's no mistakenness in the Word of God. We have to believe that. Otherwise we have no confidence. Otherwise we're not really under God's authority. You think about it. If God's word is to be questioned and doubted, who's doing the questioning and the doubting? Well, of course we are. By what evidence? By our logic, by our reason, by our research. Well then we're subjecting the Word of God to our criticism? And then the question becomes, who's the authority? Who's in charge now? Well, we've just put ourselves in charge. We've just put ourselves in the driver's seat. We've just said, I'll figure out what is the word of God and what is not the word of God. I will, or we will, collectively, and that is wrong. That is the original satanic attack that brought sin into the world, did God actually say? So Satan's instigation is always to go after the Word of God and after the authority of God. And then, we've looked at this already. The woman saw that the tree was good for food. That means it appealed to her flesh, to her appetite. that it was a delight to the eyes, that it was something desirable to have. It appealed to the lust of the eyes. And that the tree was desired to make one wise. That's the pride of life. She took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Now this is the relevance to our catechism, in deliberate disobedience. Where in here does it say that the serpent forced Eve to take a bite? Where does it say that the serpent forced Eve to give some to Adam and that Adam was forced to take a bite. No. They had the word of God, and they had the word of the serpent, and they deliberately disobeyed They were free. They were not corrupt by the fall. They were able to do good. And they deliberately disobeyed. There was no coercion. Now later, when God confronts Eve What is this that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. And right before this, he had asked Adam, what have you done? And he said, the woman that you put here with me, she gave me something I ate. So they're blaming. They're blaming others because they're not taking responsibility for their own deliberate decisions. This is another mark of sin. Right? Sin temptation comes undermining the Word of God, appealing to lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life, and then looks for someone else to blame. It's not my fault. I didn't do it. I'm a victim. It's her fault. It's his fault. It was the instigation of the devil, but it was the deliberate decision of Adam. Because he was the the head of of humanity. It's his decision that really dragged all of humanity after him. And so what happens? Himself and all of his descendants are robbed of the gifts of holiness, righteousness, dominion. That were given to us when we were made in the image of God. To deliver a decision. And if we were there, if it was us instead of Adam, we would have done the same thing. And we need to stop making excuses. Stop making excuses. Try trying to blame. When people say, well, it's Adam's fault, well then you were just doing the same exact thing that Adam and he did. Blame somebody else. The truth is that we know that we've had, listen, as a believer, we have the Holy Spirit. We're not forced to sin. Sin is not our master anymore. We are not totally depraved in the same way that an unbeliever is. We have the Holy Spirit. We have the ability to say no to temptation, but there are times when we have deliberately sinned. in the same way that Adam and Eve did. Yes, we do have a corrupt nature, but it's not that which controls us anymore. And so when we sin as believers, we do so deliberately in the same way that Adam and Eve did. So we can't blame them. We have to accept responsibility. Because of this decision, all of Adam and Eve's descendants are born under this curse. Years and years later, centuries later, millennia later. Jesus comes into the world, and in John 8. 44, he's having a conversation with the religious leaders of his day who have accused him of deceiving the people and of having a demon. And he has told them, You are of your father, the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Listen Jesus wasn't being dramatic. He wasn't using a literary figure of speech when he looked at The scribes and Pharisees and religious leaders who were not born again, who were not in the kingdom of God, who had not repented, and he said to them, You are of your father, the devil. Because the reality of what Adam and Eve did, they were to exercise dominion over creation, under God. Adam had dominion over the serpent, under God, but instead he put himself under the serpent. And so now the serpent became the God of this age. the ruler of this world. The spirit that is at work in the sons of disobedience, as Ephesians 2 puts it. You're either a child of God by grace because you've been born again and you've been redeemed, or you remain a child of the devil. John the Baptist called the same group of people a brood of vipers. Vipers, serpents. The offspring of the brood is the offspring. The offspring of snakes, you offspring of serpents, that's what he was calling them. It's not just to be insulting or to be rude. No, speaking truth. John the Baptist spoke the truth. Jesus spoke the truth. were born as the as the seed of Adam under the mastery that Adam chose. For himself and for all of his descendants. You are of your father the devil, and so your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning. You know, you turn the page to to Genesis four, what does he do? Satan inspires Cain to kill Abel. He's a liar. Did God really say, Oh, God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be open. You will not surely die. He's a liar. He speaks out of his own character when he lies. And that's who humanity is under. That's why the world is the mess that it is. The world is absolutely the mess that it is because people are under the dominion of the devil. 1 John says, we know that the whole world lies under the sway of the evil one. So this is the nature of humanity. It's why worldliness is so offensive to God, because then we're thinking like the world. When we become worldly, obsessed with politics or career, chasing after the idols the world chases after Worldliness, we're thinking like those whose father is the devil, who do their father's desires, who believe lies because that's the character of the father of lies. And so worldliness is so offensive to God because we who are children of God, we know the truth, and the truth has set us free. We've been born again. We have seen and entered into the kingdom of God. How dare we go along with the world in the lies that it's telling and in the idols that it's chasing? We can't. We mustn't. Because really, yes, the world is that bad. And God is that good. And he wants that kind of loyalty for our own good. So, back to our catechism question. Does God do man an injustice by requiring in his law what man cannot do? No. For God so created man that he was able to do it. See, in the law, God's calling us back to what we lost in the fall. So he gives us a conscience. He puts the law on our hearts. He gives us the written word of God, the law of God in the Ten Commandments, and the great commandments of love God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. Love your neighbor as yourself. He gives us these things. to remind us of what was lost and to call us back to it. Now we're unable to do it, and really what should happen is our inability to do it should lead us to cry out to him for mercy and for salvation, for rescue. I was just just earlier today from when I'm recording this, I was doing a study. on the revival that took place under Jonathan Edwards' preaching in Northampton, Massachusetts. Or Connecticut, sorry, Northampton, Connecticut. And so he Jonathan Edwards was preaching, and people came under conviction, and usually the very first thing that happened is that they tried to be obedient. They tried to reform their lives. They're like, I gotta straighten up. And then they came under what was called the terrors of the law or legal terrors because they became aware that the law condemns them and that they can't save themselves. And that was a necessary precursor to them experiencing the joy of deliverance because only when they came to the end of themselves and said, I can't just reform my own life. I can't just straighten up and fly right. I can't just get it right. I need the Lord. So that's why we're being told these things. We're being told these things so we come to the end of ourselves. Later we will be reintroduced to the law. But our motive for obedience will be gratitude at having been delivered, not a striving after a righteousness that we're trying to earn for ourselves. It's so important that we get that right. And that's why we're kind of being dragged down to to give up on ourselves because we need Jesus. We need Jesus. Amen? Let's pray. Oh Lord God, thank you so much for sending your Son to save us from our sin. We can't save ourselves We don't have it in us, and it's not unfair for you to require of us the law of love, the Ten Commandments, because that's what we were originally created to be able to do, but the fact that we can't do them, the fact that we're inclined to see evil shows us how much we need Jesus. And now if we've been born again and if we have Jesus We have new power and new motivation for our obedience to you. So help us to walk in that. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again for our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. Let's respond to God's truth by worshiping Him together. I need the every hour most great. No tender voice like thine can be so full. I need the Oh I need thee, every hour I need thee, overless me now, my savior. I come to I need to have you out, stay down here by I need thee, who I need thee. Everyone I need, obless me now my Savior, I come through the I need the enjoy pain. Come quickly and bite. All life is vain. I need it, all I need, every other I need it, oh Me now must be you, I trust you. Give thee every hour, teach me thy will, and thy rich promise in me. I need to anity every day. In our must be I come to be