Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We have now begun our 27th week together in the Gospels. We've come to Luke 15. This is a great chapter of parables about those who are lost. and then found. We've got the lost sheep and the lost coin today, and then the parable of the prodigal son or the story of the prodigal son tomorrow. Today, as we look at these first 10 verses of Luke 15, we're going to ask this question: Does God really care about our salvation? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word and thank you for the gift of being able to spend time in your word every day. We pray that you'd be with us today as we look to you. Speak to us by your Spirit, through your word. Show us more of Christ. Show us more of our need for Him, that we might walk by faith, that we might walk closely. with our Savior. It's in His name we pray. Amen. Luke fifteen, verses one to ten. Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him. And the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So he told them this parable. What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country and go after the one that is lost until he finds it. And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing And when he comes home he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost. Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who need no repentance. Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently until she finds it And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost Just so I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents. God is sovereign. He rules over heaven and earth with absolute power, wisdom, and foresight. He foreordains whatsoever comes to pass according to the council. of his own holy will. For those of us who belong to him, he has chosen us before the foundation of the world, and has predestined us for adoption as his children. before he ever said, Let there be light. If you don't believe any of this, just go read Ephesians 1, 3 to 11. And everything I just said is spelled out in that opening chapter of the book of Ephesians. But understanding that God is absolutely sovereign can, sometimes, lead to a cold and calculating view of God, devoid of warmth, joy, delight, and true love. We can imagine God coldly and disinterestedly making calculated decisions and running the universe like some kind of all-knowing supercomputer, but that is not what the Bible says. God delights in all of his works, in the decreeing of them from eternity and in the accomplishing of them in time. He takes joy and pleasure in all that he does, and yet not all in the same way Salvation is the highest and the best of the works of God. The redemption of a lost sinner is the most loving. most costly, most precious, and most joyful of all of God's works when it is accomplished Heaven is filled with joy. Several years ago, I remember watching Michael Phelps stand on the podium and receive his 22nd Olympic gold medal. He was teary-eyed and overwhelmed with emotion in the moment. Even after twenty-two gold, it doesn't seem to get old. And if that's the way Michael Phelps feels about winning an Olympic event, God the Father, who is love and is full of mercy and compassion, untainted by sin and never tired by any hint of fatigue. rejoices even more over the salvation of each and every one of his dearly loved children But one part of what Jesus says in verse seven needs more explanation. God rejoices more over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who need no repentance Is Jesus saying that wayward sinners who get redeemed later in life bring more joy to God than faithful Christian children who grow up in the faith? And never a wander away from their love for Jesus. Is Jesus saying that God is less joyful over the salvation of his own people than the salvation of the lost? No. First of all, if they are saved, then even Christian children who grow up in the faith and who never wander away from Jesus are still sinners who need to repent and who do repent. No one truly belongs to God's people unless they confess their sin and repent. The righteous persons who need no repentance are not actually righteous, but self-righteous These are the healthy who do not need a physician. These are the self-satisfied and they refuse salvation because they don't think they need it. So, if you have had your eyes opened to see your sin and your need for the Savior, and if you have cried out to God for salvation and found it in Jesus Christ, then rejoice. Rejoice in your salvation and rejoice knowing that your Lord rejoices over you. Zephaniah 3. 17 says, The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love. He will exult over you with loud singing. Singing. Isn't that wonderful to think of God rejoicing over us in that way? It's true. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 127 as we're continuing in the Songs of Ascens. This one is of Solomon. Oh bless sorry. I can't even read it because it's right behind the seven. So let me think about this for a minute. Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain. It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil, for he gives to his beloved sleep. Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, so are the children of one's youth. Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them. He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate. I don't know why ESV which is a wonderful website and I like using it. I use it because what you can't see is I have all my notes hidden on the right side of the screen and I can save them and all that. But the layout of these psalms, once we got w past one hundred, has been terrible. Um but we're gonna keep using it because I don't have a better alternative right now. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you. That you love us, you truly love us, and even though you chose us before the foundation of the world, in that moment when we came to repentance in faith When we turned from our sins and we trusted in the Savior, you rejoiced. You rejoiced over us and you continue to rejoice over us. Our salvation is the highest and best of all your works. That that blows my mind, Lord. And we don't need to worry. We don't need to be anxious, eating the bread of anxious toil, because you give your beloved sleep. You give us rest, you give us peace, you you provide for us, you protect us. And without you, we would have no hope, but in you we have no reason to despair. Thank you. In Jesus' name, amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope today's devotional was a blessing to you, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.