Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is good to be with you as we wrap up week 38 today by looking at John 18, verses 12 to 18, and asking the question, How does God use even his enemies to accomplish his will? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you that you are the sovereign one who's in control of every detail of the universe and of our lives. Nothing escapes from your sovereign rule. So give us the faith to trust you as we look to your word today. In Jesus' name. Amen. John 18, verses 12-18, So the band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound him. First they led him to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die for the people. Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. Since that disciple was known to the high priest, he entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest. But Peter stood outside at the door. So the other disciple who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door and brought Peter in. The servant girl at the door said to Peter, You are not one of this man's disciples, are you? He said, I am not Now the servants and officers had made a charcoal fire, because it was cold, and they were standing and warming themselves. Peter also was with them, standing and warming himself. We have Caiaphas here, the high priest, and we're reminded of what Caiaphas had said at the end of John 11, after the raising of Lazarus from the dead. He had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die for the people. Caiaphas was high priest. He was from a very powerful and very influential family. His father-in-law, Annis, had previously been high priest. He was removed from office Although, see, under the Mosaic law, under the law of God, the person put into high priest's office is supposed to serve in that office for life. But Rome didn't want a lifelong high priest because they knew they'd be cycling governors in and out of the area, and they didn't want someone well established within the area to have such a powerful influence. that it would be able to counteract the Roman occupation or the Roman governor. So Annas was removed from office, but the truth is he was a powerful guy. And his family had actually married in by alliance to the Herodian dynasty, to Herod the Great and his sons. uh that we see four generations of of King Herod's in the Gospels and in Acts. So this meant that even though Anas was removed, he had five sons and a son-in-law who each served as high priest over Israel in due time. And this was the son-in-law, Caiaphas. He's wanting to protect his family's lucrative position. They go were wealthy, they were influential, they were in charge of the money changing and the animal selling in the temple and they saw Jesus as a threat. But you know all of this is under God's sovereign rule. Especially Caiaphas being ordained, anointed for the office of high priest is under God's sovereign rule. And as the high priest, he has a role to play in Jesus' work on the cross. He prophesies it's better for one man to die for the people than that the whole people be condemned. Now, he meant that it would just be better to kill Jesus and get rid of him rather than have the Romans come and crush the people, but God actually put those words in his mouth to mean something more than he ever intended. God intended that Jesus would die for the sins of his people, that he would be condemned so that his people might be saved from God's judgment. As high priest, Caiaphas is here condemning the substitute sacrifice Just as on the Day of Atonement, the High Priest stood and laid hands on the scapegoat, and then sent it out to be condemned in the place of the people Caiaphas lays his hands on, seizes Jesus, and condemns him to die outside the city walls. as a substitute for the people. And just as the high priest would offer up the nation's Passover lamb, so Caiaphas is going to offer up Jesus to Pontius Pilate. But Caiaphas is not the only enemy of God to be used by God for his purposes. Caiaphas is serving a similar role to what Pharaoh in the Old Testament did, to what Nebuchadnezzar did. to what uh earlier King Herod the Great had done, what Joseph's brothers had done when they had sold him into slavery. We see this again and again in Scripture. It's one of the things that the Bible wants us to grasp. When evil people do terrible things against God's people, it is not outside of God's control. God is using it for his good and for the good of his people. God uses anyone. God can use words that he puts into people's mouths and he can lead them to carry out purposes where they have one thing in mind and he has something entirely different. Notice God doesn't override their will. God doesn't force them to do something they don't want to do. Joseph's brothers hated Joseph, sold him into slavery. Pharaoh was prideful and stubborn and didn't want to let the people go. Judas was greedy and wanted money, and so he betrayed Jesus. Caiaphas was power hungry and also a little bit fearful, and so he does what he does to dispatch and get rid of Jesus. All of them did what they wanted to do, but each of them also perfectly fulfilled the purposes of God for the good of his people and for the glory of his own name. This this really should sink deep into our souls and give us great confidence. There are no mistakes, there are no accidents. There's nothing that slips through God's fingers and comes at us that God say, what am I going to do with this now? God had actually foreordained, pre-planned, to use all of it for his glory and for the good of his people, no matter how evil selfish or cruel, wicked people might be, no matter what they might do against God's people, no matter what they wait what they might say. God is the one in control. And in all of it, we can praise God from whom all blessings flow. Even the blessings that flow to us through the hands of evil men and wicked schemes. pray. Father, you are the sovereign one, King of Kings, Lord of Lords, ruler of the nations. There's no one above you, there's no one beside you. Your throne stands secure, and your kingdom rules over all. Help us to believe that. Joyfully submit to it. Trust you through every circumstance of life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope you enjoyed this week's devotionals. I hope you have a great weekend. I hope you're able to spend the Lord's Day worshiping with God's people. If you are in Harford County and you're looking for a church home, this coming Lord's Day is the first Sunday that we're going to be worshiping at Advent Lutheran Church. which is right on Route 24 in Forest Hill across fromotria. We're going to be worshiping there at 1045 on Sundays from now on. And so we would love to see you. If you're looking for a church home, you can get directions to the church or more information at our website, forestillpca. org. You can also email me any questions you have about this devotional or anything else related to the church. Forest Hill, uh, pastor at foresthillpca. org is my email address, pastor P-A-S-T-O-R, pastor at foresthillpca. org. Have a blessed day in the Lord.