Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Luke 16 is on tap for us this morning. Also on tap is some good, fresh, strong coffee. And here in Luke 16, we're looking at verses 1 to 17, and we're asking this question. Why does God care about the way we handle money? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It's living and active. It's sharper than any two-edged sword. It divides and penetrates. It lays us open before you. It shows us our need. It shows us our Savior. So teach us, O Lord, from your word, and grow us in our love for Christ. We pray in His name. Amen. Luke 16, 1-17. He also said to the disciples, There was a rich man who had a manager, and charges were brought to him that this man was wasting his possessions. And he called him and said to him, What is this that I hear about you? Turn in the account of your management, for you can no longer be manager. And the manager said to himself, What shall I do since my master is taking the management away from me? I am not strong enough to dig, and I am ashamed to beg. I have decided what to do, so that when I am removed from management people may re receive me into their houses. So summoning his master's debtors one by one, he said to the first, How much do you owe my master? He said, A hundred measures of oil. He said to him, Take your bill and sit down quickly and write fifty. Then he said to another, And how much do you owe? He said, A hundred measures of wheat. He said to him, Take your bill and write eighty. The master commended the dishonest manager for his shrewdness, for the sons of this world are more shrewd in dealing with their own generation. than the sons of light. And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails, they may receive you into the eternal dwellings. One who is faithful in a very little is also faithful in much. And one who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much. If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches? And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own? No servant can serve two masters For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all these things, and they ridiculed him. And he said to them, You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts For what is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God. The law and the prophets were until John. Since then The good news of the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone forces his way into it, but it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one dot of the law to become void. So why does God care about the way we handle money? It's not hard to understand why Jesus cares about the way we pray or how we think about the Bible. Those are spiritual matters. It's also not hard to figure out why Jesus cares about how we treat others, and that he emphasizes loving our neighbors. After all, people are made in God's image, and God calls us all to love each other. But money Why does it matter to Jesus how we spend our money? In today's reading, Jesus teaches us much about money. First of all, we should use the money and resources we have to bless others Secondly, money is a little thing compared to the true riches God offers in His kingdom But if we're unfaithful with a little thing like money, how can we be trusted with the greater riches of the kingdom? Third, our money is not really our own, but it is a stewardship trust from God. We see that in verse 12. Verse 13, we see that it's impossible to serve money as our master and also serve God. These truths together help us understand why Jesus cares about how we spend money. Money is an important measure of what we truly value and how we think about the things God has entrusted to our care. We could say that it's because money is such a small, unimportant thing that how we spend it matters so much. After all, if we're willing to compromise our obedience to God for mere money, What does that say about our priorities? Or if we do almost anything to get money, what does that say about our hearts? We must serve only God. And make sure that the money he gives us is used faithfully in service to him and his kingdom alone. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 129. GREATLY have they afflicted me from my youth, let Israel now say. Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth, yet they have not prevailed against me The plowers ploughed upon my back, they made long their furrows. The Lord is righteous. He has cut the cords of the wicked. May all who hate Zion be put to shame and turned backward. Let them be like the grass on the housetops which withers before it grows up, with which the reaper does not fill his hand. nor the binder of sheaths his arms, nor do those who pass by say, The blessing of the Lord be upon you, we bless you in the name of the Lord. This is a confusing Psalm. I would encourage you to look up my teaching on Psalm 129. But it really is about how God is on our side. Even in the midst of persecution, and that God will finally judge those who persecute his people. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you've been kind and generous to us in so many ways, and you've given us money and material goods, so that we can bless others with them, so that we can be used by you to be uh an instrument of kindness, an instrument of grace in the lives of others. Help us be wise and faithful in how we use money, not serving it, not living for it, not making it more than it is, but seeing it as a stewardship trust. And Father, we thank you that you love your people and that you're on our side, even when we are greatly afflicted by the enemy who comes after us or the world. that entices us and ensnares us or our flesh that rebels against you, even in the face of great enemies, you are greater still And you will judge those enemies. Our flesh will be done away with. The world will be judged by you. The devil will be cast into the lake of fire for all eternity. And we thank you that that triumph is real in Christ. Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, again, I hope today's blessing, today's uh today's devotional was a blessing to you. That's what I meant to say. Easy for me to say. We are continuing to make our way through the Gospel of Luke, and we'll be back, Lord willing, again tomorrow. I hope you can join me for that. And I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord, a day that is spent with a right perspective on money and on God and his kingdom. I'll see you tomorrow.