Romans eleven, we're going to be looking at verses one to twenty-four. As we consider together God's unfailing plan for his people This is the word of God. I ask then, has God rejected his people? By no means. For I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Do you not know what the scripture says of Elijah? How he appeals to God against Israel, Lord. They have killed your prophets, they have demolished your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life. But what is God's reply to him? I have kept for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. So too, at the present time, there is a remnant chosen by grace. But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works, otherwise, grace would no longer be grace. What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened. As it is written, God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see, and ears that would not hear, down to this very day. And David says, let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them. Let their eyes be darkened. So that they cannot see and bend their backs forever. So I ask, did they stumble In order that they might fall? By no means. Rather, through their trespass, salvation has come to the Gentiles, so as to make Israel jealous. Now, if their trespass means riches for the world, and if their failure means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their full inclusion mean? Now I am speaking to you Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry in order somehow to make my fellow Jews jealous and thus save some of them. For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead? If the dough offered as first fruits is holy, so is the whole lump. And if the root is holy, so are the branches. But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, although a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among the others and now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree. Do not be arrogant toward the branches. If you are, remember it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you. Then you will say, Branches were broken off, so that I might be grafted in. That is true. They were broken off because of their unbelief. But you stand fast through faith. So do not become proud, but fear, for if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you. Note then the kindness and the severity of God Severity toward those who have fallen, but God's kindness to you, provided you continue in His kindness, otherwise you too will be cut off. And even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again. For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and contrary to nature grafted into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, the natural branches, be grafted back into their own olive tree? This is the Word of God. Let's pray. Father, please help us to understand your word. We've come to a very important section of your word here in Romans 11. It is To be handled with care and to be received with faith and humility. And we pray for your Holy Spirit to speak to all of us. Through your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So we've begun Romans chapter eleven. It is one of the most significant chapters in all of the Bible. Now you're going to say to me, you say that a lot. But I uh I want I want to let you know this. I'm in good company. Because this past week I listened to Sinclair Ferguson's sermon on this passage and he begins by saying we've come to one of the most important chapters in the Bible and he says, some of you say that I say that a lot. And I do, but this really is one of the most important chapters in the Bible. Because it answers in the most direct way in Scripture, it answers this really big question that many people still have about the Bible, and that is, what about the Jewish people? You know, the Old Testament, you've got 1,500 years of God's dealings, 2,000 years almost going back to Abraham, of God's dealings with Abraham and the seed of Abraham and the Jewish people. And the majority of the books of the Bible given to the people of Israel. And then it seems by the time we get to the end of the New Testament, like everything's moved on from Israel to the church and and what gives and Has God forgotten about them, forsaken them? Do they have a different plan? What's going on? And really this chapter, very carefully and very clearly, unpacks that for us. Now you might be here and you might think, well, I'm not Jewish. What does that have to do with me? Why why should I spend a lot of time thinking about what God's plan is for the Jewish people if I'm not Jewish? Well, first of all, that's just very arrogant and dismissive of a lot of God's word, so you shouldn't do that. But second of all You realize that if God abandons promises made, then we're all on shaky ground. If God makes promises and then says, nah, I'm gonna do something else. We ought, I mean, that's not good for any of us. So we need to know that our God is a God who keeps his promises. And whose covenant is unbreakable. And it is. And so Paul walks us very carefully through this here in Romans chapter 11. The persistence of the Jewish people as a people, as an identifiable people in the world, is a remarkable providence of God. The story is told, may or may not be true, but the story is told that King Louis XIV asked French philosopher and mathematician Blaise Pascal A very pointed question. He said, okay, Pascal, can you give me clear and irrefutable evidence for the existence of God and specifically the God of the Bible? And Pascal's answer was, The Jews, Your Majesty. The Jews. Now another version of that story has it being the Russian Prussian ruler, Prussian ruler, Frederick the Great, asking his court chaplain the same question and getting the same answer. I looked into this to try to figure out if this was true or not. We don't know. It is at least possible that the Prussian chaplain had perhaps read Pascal, because Pascal, in his masterpiece Pensee does spend time commenting on the preservation of the Jewish people as a distinct ethnic group in the world and how this is evidence for the existence of the God of the Bible. It's his providence in the world. And the reason why I say that is because we know there have been a number of attempts to exterminate the Jewish people. We read about one of them in the Bible. The book of Esther is all about that. Haman the Agagite came up with a plan and and paid off the most powerful ruler in the world, paid him off handsomely. to allow him and his henchmen to execute all the Jewish people throughout the entire Persian Empire, which would have been basically all the Jewish people in the world. And they were on the cusp of carrying that out when the Lord used Esther to intervene and spare his people. But we go centuries later, and in A. D. 70, there was a Jewish rebellion against the Roman Empire, and it was put down rather violently. And the Jewish temple in Jerusalem was destroyed. And it's never been rebuilt 2,000 years since. And the Jewish people were scattered even more than they already had been. In fact Less than a hundred years after that, another Roman emperor named Hadrian, who built the famous wall at the north of England. He expelled all the Jews from Israel permanently. He said, if you're Jewish, you're not allowed to live within the promised land. Hadrian's expulsion of the Jews. Jews were not allowed to live within the Promised Land for centuries after that. Now, they were allowed in later when they became Christian emperors of the Eastern Roman Empire, there's a long complicated history, but there was no nation-state for Jewish people on the face of the earth until, as you know, nineteen forty seven. So there was no there was no safe place for them. And in those centuries, historians will tell you that the Jewish people have been the most persecuted and the most harassed people on the face of the earth. The last major assault on the Jewish people is one that again you are very familiar with, I'm sure, was carried off by a little guy with a funny mustache named Adolf And there was nothing funny about what he did. He killed six million Jewish people, which was as many as two-thirds of all the Jewish people living in Europe at the time, and it was about forty percent of the global population. of the Jews who were exterminated under Adolf Hitler. And that was the immediate impetus for the creation of the modern nation-state of Israel. And yet for Paul, there's an even remarkable An even more remarkable and more inexplicable providence from God than just the preservation of the Jews. If you were to ask the Apostle Paul today. About the preservation of the Jews, he might say, well, of course. God had made his promises, and God's promises don't fail. So of course the Jewish people are going to be preserved by the providence of God. What he was wrestling with in Romans 9 to 11 is a different issue altogether, and that is, while the Jewish people have been preserved, Almost all of them have rejected the God who preserves them. The vast majority of Jewish people in the world have rejected The God of Israel, who came among them in human flesh, who fulfilled all their scriptures, and they said, No. That is something that has that has Paul wrestling with the faithfulness of God And so here in Romans 11, he comes back to a question that he's been wrestling with in these chapters. Has God rejected his people? And the answer he gives, we've seen Paul give this answer again and again in Romans, it's the strongest negative you can give in the Greek language. It is by no means, or your translation might say, God forbid or your translation might say, absolutely not. It ought to be something really strong with an exclamation point after it, because the the negative that Paul gives is the strongest negative you can give. Has God rejected his people? Absolutely not No way, by no means, God forbid. Even when the vast majority of Jewish people are unbelievers, even though the vast majority of Jewish people are unbelievers He says, I ask then, has God rejected his people? By no means. For I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Do you not know what Scripture says of Elijah, how he appeals to God against Israel, Lord, they've killed your prophets, they've demolished your altars I alone am left, and they seek my life. But what is God's reply to him? I have kept for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. So too, at the present time, there is a remnant chosen by grace. But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works, otherwise, grace would no longer be grace. So Paul points us to himself as exhibit A in his defense. I'm a Jew. I'm as Jewish as they come. And I'm a believer, therefore, the Jews haven't been rejected by God. But then he expands that a bit, and he takes us back hundreds of years in history. to the days of the prophet Elijah, when do you remember on Mount Carmel, it was Elijah all by himself on Mount Carmel against the prophets of Baal, and there were hundreds of prophets of Baal. who were there in attendance. And so this is shortly after that when King when Queen Jezebel learns that Elijah has had the prophets of Baal slaughtered, she's like, you know, if his head remains on his shoulders by the end of the day, you know, and he's like, I'm outta here. So he runs away as fast as he can, because he's a brave man of God. He's human. So he runs away and God meets him and he cr complains to God, I'm the only one. It's just me. And God says No. You don't see it, but there are 7,000 men in Israel who've not bowed the knee to Baal. God was keeping his people through that time. Earlier in Romans 9, Paul had given us a couple of other pieces of evidence for this case that God has not rejected his people. First of all, he said back in Romans 9 verses 6 and 7 that there's always been a difference between physical Israel and spiritual Israel Not all are Israel who are of Israel. What does that mean? Well not everybody who has the blood And who has the mark of circumcision is adopted into the true spiritual family of God. And then he clarifies that by saying that not all of the heirs, not all of the physical descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are the true heirs of the covenant promise, but it's those who received the promise by faith. who were in fact the children of Abraham. He goes on to tell us the vast majority of of Israelites during the Exodus generation were not believers and rejected God's Word. You look at that Exodus generation, you have hundreds of thousands of people, a million or more people who come out of Egypt. They see signs and wonders such as very few people in the history of the world have ever seen. It always it always makes me think when someone says, oh, but if only I could see more evidence of the existence of God, then I would believe. And my first thought is, well you woke up this morning, didn't you? I mean you you live in the middle of his creation, don't you? Like look all around you. There's plenty of evidence for the existence of God. But then I think further about This Exodus generation, all of the miracles they saw in the in the plagues and in the Passover, and in the parting of the Red Sea, and in the manna from heaven and the water from the rock and the pillar of cloud by day, and the pillar of fire by night. And almost every single one of them died an unbeliever, as far as we know. Because seeing is not believing But believing is seeing. You have to receive the promise of God by faith. That's what we're told. So God hasn't abandoned his people. He still has those whom he foreknew. At the present time, Paul says there is a holy remnant chosen by God's saving grace. At the day of Pentecost in Acts chapter 2. Peter preached a sermon, and 3,000 people were baptized and added to the church in one day, and they were all Jews. They were from various parts of the Roman Empire. They spoke various different languages, but they were all Jewish. So God has not rejected those he foreknew, and then he later says it's a remnant chosen by grace. This is again one of those texts that confirms what we looked at in chapter 8. And that is that when Paul uses the word for new, he's talking about being chosen by grace, being loved by God. So there is this remnant. Of true believing Jews. But really, what's true of believing Jews, if it is by grace, It is no longer on the basis of works, otherwise grace would no longer be grace. What is true of believing Jews is true of all of us who are true believers in Jesus Christ. It is by grace. It is not by works. Because just as not all of those who are of Israel are really Israel, So today, not all of those who sit in a church on Sunday morning are really the church. There is a church within the church, just as there was an Israel within Israel, we make the distinction, we use the terms the visible church and the invisible church. And that's just the same way of talking about what Paul is talking about with Israel. There was the numbered company, the people you could see, and then among those people there were those who really had faith, who really trusted God. By grace, by grace, they had faith, and they were part of the true people of God. So if you're here this morning, that's my first question for you. You're here, we're here in church, we've sung praises to God, we've heard from God's word, we've prayed, I'm preaching to you. Are you believing? Are you receiving God's word by faith? Are you part of his remnant chosen by grace? Or are you just waiting for the food table? Or you're here because your parents make you come? Think about that. The evidence of whether you are chosen by grace or not is whether you have faith, whether you're trusting God and His promises. Because that's only by grace that we come to believe. The second thing to notice in verses 7 to 10 is not only is the salvation of God's holy remnant on the basis of grace alone, but it is also according to God's unfailing word. God made it clear in His Word that this was His plan. And so Paul here quotes from Isaiah 29. 10, from Deuteronomy 29. 4, and from Psalm 69, verses 22 and 23. to prove that God's word has not failed. He says, what then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened, as it is written. That means this was according to the word of God. God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see, that's Isaiah 29, 10, and ears that would not hear, down to this very day, that's Deuteronomy 29. And then David says, and this is from the Psalms Let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution to them. Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see, and bend their backs forever. So salvation is always based on God's grace and God's grace alone. The elect obtain salvation by grace, but God decides that the vast majority of Israelites would have hard hearts. It would not see the truth. This is strong language, again, about the sovereignty of God. And so again, whenever we see strong language about the sovereignty of God, we might be tempted to move over into this other place that says, well, it's not their fault then. They couldn't help it. Because God gave them a spirit of stupor, and God gave them eyes that couldn't see and ears that wouldn't hear. No, that's not what that means. Because Paul goes on to use language of stumbling and language of trespass in verse eleven So I asked, did they stumble in order that they might fall? By no means. Rather through their trespass, salvation has come to the Gentiles so as to make Israel jealous. He's using language here of human responsibility. They stumbled. They trespassed. We looked at this again in chapter ten. last week. Is it is it God's sovereignty? Is it God's grace? Is it God's choice? Is it God's yes? Well what about the people who don't come? Well, they really are responsible. You think about what happened historically. What happened? Jesus came. He came to the Jewish people. And the only people in the history of the world who potentially saw more miracles than the Exodus generation is the generation of Jewish people who saw Jesus. They saw Jesus feed five thousand. They saw Jesus heal a man who was born blind. They saw Jesus heal a man who had been paralyzed and had been by the pool of Bethesda for decades, and they all knew who he was They saw Jesus raise up a widow's dead son. They saw Jesus raise up Lazarus after he'd been four days in the tomb. They saw Jesus Do so many miracles that had never been done before in the history of the world. And when he was put on trial, they never even denied that he did those miracles. Because they were done so publicly with so many witnesses that it was undeniable. But the powerful people decided he needed to be gotten rid of because he was a problem They decided to have him put to death. And then he rose again. And then he appeared to more than five hundred and fourteen people, if you count up all the people that are named in uh 1 Corinthians 15. Many different times, many different places, he appears to people, and these people carry out their testimony. And then through those people, more miracles are done. Remember Peter and John? Going up to pray at the temple and to heal the man who had been sitting outside the gate who was lame and he goes in walking and leaping and praising God. Can we all sing that song? They saw more miracles being done, and these men who did it said, It's in the name of Jesus whom you had crucified, but whom God raised from the dead, and they had this clear testimony. And that testimony was allowed by God's providence to continue in Jerusalem and in Judea for a number of years until Stephen was martyred in Acts chapter 7, and then the church was scattered by persecution. And most of the church left Jerusalem and Judea and went out. And that's how we get the gospel. It's why it's their trespass. He says that that leads to the gospel coming to the Gentiles, because historically it's only when the church is intensely persecuted in Jerusalem and Judea that they're scattered out, and as they go scattered out They take the gospel to Gentiles. So Stephen is martyred in Acts 7, and Cornelius becomes the first Gentile convert by Acts 10, and then Paul is taking the gospel to all the Gentiles. By the end of the book of Acts, it's gone all the way to Rome. So this is the history. It was it was human decisions and human responsibility, but it was also God's sovereignty. How was that possible? We talked about this, but I think it's important to keep it fresh in our minds There's always more than one thing happening at the same time. Always. That's the way life is. There's always more than one thing happening at the same time. There's what you want and what you're pursuing, and there's what God is doing. And there's what Satan's trying to do. I had a sillier illustration in my sermon notes, but I'm going to use something that we're all dealing with right now. Dave and Sabrina lost their baby boy at 18 weeks. When they went to the hospital and they're there in labor and delivery, it was not what they wanted. Wasn't what any of us wanted. God was at work. God has brought Killian home to glory. And God is at work. What is he doing? I don't know that we'll know the full picture of that. He's certainly testing faith. He's certainly refining our faith. But he's also through the prayers of the people of God, he's extending comfort And hope to Dave and Sabrina. He's also reminding us of precious gospel promises. That we're going to have rehearsed here in a little bit when we baptize Caleb, that God says, I will be a God to you and to your children after you throughout their generations. That's a precious gospel promise that we believe. Now Satan's also at work. He's at work planting seeds of doubt. He's at work planning division, despair. And we pray against that. We pray against those things. And that's real combat. Next weekend I won't be here. Because I'll be with some of our youth and youth from Living Hope and we'll be doing combat school. And you can pray for me, because the older I get, the more I think, why did I sign up for this? But it'll be a lot of fun. It'll be a lot of fun. Anyway, so um but we'll be doing combat school. And and the serious part what we'll be learning is that for the Christian, life is warfare. There is an enemy, and he's at work, but our God is also at work. The God of Roys are going into a land of darkness where Satan's been at work for centuries, but God is at work. And God is shining the light in the midst of the darkness. And the darkness shall not overcome it. Amen. And that's what God's doing among the Jewish people, even to this day. He has a people. He has a people. The next section has this great picture of an olive tree. And this is the answer for those who think, well Does God have two different people and two different plans? Maybe he's got the Jewish people over here as his people And he's got a plan for them that's based on ethnicity, but then over here he's got the church, and it's a different people, and for them he's got a plan based on the gospel. And what's clear as it can be from Romans 11 is that there's one people of God. There's one olive tree with one root. And I think that root really is the covenant made to Abraham. Which is the formal beginning of the covenant of grace as the salvation promise I will be your God, you will be my people. He promised Abraham, through your offspring, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. And so this promise made to Abraham, way back in Genesis 12 and 15, is growing. And in the Old Testament we see it bring forth a tree, an olive tree that we call Israel. But then we see most of that olive tree broken off because they reject The one who is the promised Messiah, the one who is the the offshoot of the root of Jesse. And all these wild olive branches are grafted in, but they're grafted into that same tree. supported by that same root. And there's a very strong, there's very strong language here against anti Semitism. Because he says, don't you be arrogant toward the Jewish people. If you missed it But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, though a wild olive shoot, were grafted among the others, and now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree Do not be arrogant toward the branches. What branches is he talking about? Those natural branches that have been broken off. In the context, that's who he's talking about. In other words, Jewish people. Don't be arrogant toward Jewish people If you are, remember it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you. And if you say branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in, well that's true. They were broken off because of their unbelief. But you stand fast through faith, so do not become proud, but fear. Pride is the opposite of faith. If you're trusting God, you do so humbly. You do so gratefully, or you're not doing it. If your attitude is, yeah, those Jewish people, they didn't know what they were doing. Fools, but we're here, we know what we're doing. Uh-oh, that's not faith. That's pride, that's presumption. And that needs to go. That needs to go. It is uh breaking my heart that there is a resurgence in anti-Semitism in America today. And if you're not aware of it, be thankful. I guess you don't watch the news, because there's been like literally deadly attacks on synagogues repeatedly. But there's a lot of vitriol, a lot of hatred toward Jewish people in certain online social media circles, some of whom that are very popular among so-called conservatives that don't even deserve that name. Don't get sucked in by that. Do you remember what God says? Do you remember what God says? And we'll have more on that in two weeks' time when we come back to Romans 11. God's purposes in hardening their hearts was just to open the door to the Gentiles for a period of time And he's provoking Israel to jealousy. He's stirring them up to see others receiving their covenant promises, and one day he's promised that they will be grafted back in again. Paul hints to it. in verse 24 that the natural branches will be grafted back into their own olive tree. And we're going to deal with that In two weeks' time when we finish chapter 11. It's a wonderful, there is a wonderful future hope for the Jewish people that I think is very clear here in Romans chapter 11. We'll talk about that in two weeks. But the warning to us is not to become proud or arrogant. So today we conclude by remembering these things. Remember that God is always at work in his world. The world is not spinning out of control. God has not forgotten his promises. The darkness is not actually winning. Beyond the anti-Semitism, there's a lot of voices online that want you to believe that. Oh, it's the downfall of Western civilization. Oh, it's the downfall of Whatever will we do? Well, what we're going to do is what we're always been called to do. On Christ the solid rock I stand, all other ground is sinking sand. We serve a king who's not up for reelection and who's never lost. And his kingdom will endure forever. So we stand. People make their choices, but those choices are never outside of God's plan. And that should give us great peace. But also God's plan is mysterious. And we have to marvel at the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God. And again, more on that because This great doxology that ends chapter 11 is coming in two weeks. Right now we stand. We stand by faith. We stand in humility. We stand in complete and utter dependence upon Christ, who is the fulfillment of all of the promises and purposes of God. We stand in gratitude. And we stand in joy. And as we do so, we have good news to shine into the darkness. Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your great grace, unfailing love, firm and steadfast purposes. You are our God. And we are so thankful for that. Bless us and strengthen our faith in you. Deepen our humble dependence on you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.