Romans chapter five, verses six through eleven is our focus for this morning. Romans chapter five, verses six through eleven For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God? For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by his life. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. Let's pray Father, what a wonderful word we have that speaks of your love for us. And of the salvation that we have in you, and of the hope that we have that allows us to rejoice in you. Would you speak to us as we meditate on this word, as we think about it, ponder it? Unpack it, explore it. Would you apply it to our hearts and minds and lives by your Holy Spirit for the glory of your name? In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You may be seated. It was the English poet Alexander Pope. who first said very famously, a little learning is a dangerous thing. I don't know if you've had encounters with this. Someone learns a little bit of something about something and then they think they know it all. And they jump to conclusions and they and they do all sorts of things it's like, okay, you need to learn a whole lot more before you start you know, doing that. And particularly if you're older and you've dealt with enthusiastic young people who learn some little bit of tidbit of something for the first time and now they think that they're experts, you can just sort of roll your eyes and think, okay Slow down, because there's a whole lot more to know, and you just got a little piece of it, and you're acting like it's the whole thing. One way that this happens, sadly, in the lives of believers, is when it comes to a piece of Christian doctrine or knowledge of God. We can get a hold of a piece of it, and we can act like we have knowledge of the whole, and we can actually, if we do that, we can use that little piece of that knowledge and distort it. to make God seem very different than he actually is in his word. I think about William Carey, who's considered the father of the modern missions movement. He took the gospel to India in 1792. Well, he went to the Presbyterian Church at that time, the Church of Scotland, and he he wanted to be sent by them. And he met with elders and he presented to them this burden on his heart to go and take the gospel to India. Well, these were Presbyterian elders who knew that God is sovereign in salvation, that God saves whomever He wills. And so one of the elders said, Young man! If God is pleased to save the heathen, he will do it with or without your help. And they turned him away. Well, that elder may have been an elder, but he had a piece of knowledge that distorted the whole, because actually God has said that he will not save people. without our being involved. How will they hear unless someone preaches? How will they preach unless someone is sent? This is coming in Romans ten. But another piece that relates more to the doctrines that we've been learning about here in Romans so far is when people hear that Jesus is the propitiation for our sin. And that he's the high priest who intercedes for us before the Father. You take those two pieces of truth. Jesus is the propitiation for our sins. That means he's the sacrifice that satisfies divine justice, that appeases the wrath of God due to us for sin. And he intercedes for us at the Father's right hand. As our high priest. You can take those two pieces of doctrine and you can wrongly conclude that God the Father is always angry at us. And really wants to punish us, but Jesus stopped it from happening And he's continually stopping it from happening because God the Father is up there and he sees us sin and he's like, Ah, there he goes again, I'm just gonna and and Jesus says, No, Lord, please don't strike them And we get this picture where God the Father is like an angry, grumpy person, and God the Son is the one who is loving and who is appeasing the wrath of God and interceding for us. Some people take this along with a very distorted understanding of the Old Testament, and that furthers a picture of of God the Father being a God of wrath and Jesus being the source of love. But that's not true. That's not an accurate picture of the heart of God. Our passage tells us today that the reason why Jesus gave his life for us when we were enemies is because of God's love. Verse 8, God shows his love for us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Well, one of the most famous verses in the whole Bible, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son. so that whoever believes in him will not perish but have everlasting life. God the Father loves you. And that's why he sent his son. And why Jesus willingly went to the cross. And that's the focus of this passage is helping us to see That when we were weak, when we were sinful, when we were enemies of God, God showed how much he loves us by giving his one and only Son for us, who willingly died for us. And if that's true, Then how can we live in uncertainty about God's heart toward us today? That's the big idea here. The big idea here is if God loved you so much, that when you were a sinner, when you were an enemy, and you were hostile to God, God gave his one and only son for you, and his son willingly offered up his life for you on the cross. He loves you that much How could you think that now that you believe in Jesus and you are a child of God, that God is somehow indifferent toward you, or neglectful of you, or doesn't care about you, or isn't going to take care of you? I think most Christians struggle to really believe that God loves us as much as He says He loves us. We deal with a lot of self-doubt, feelings of guilt and shame, the enemy Who is called the accuser of the brethren? He comes against us with accusation. You call yourself a Christian. You think God's happy with you about that? Getting us looking in all the wrong places and thinking all the wrong thoughts. And God wants us to be reassured of his love for us. So the first thing we learn in this passage is who Christ died for. That is, what kind of people Christ willingly laid down his life for. And if you're filling in the blanks, kids, here's your chance to fill in the blanks. Ready? Christ died for sinners. Who were God's enemies, not good people. Christ died for sinners who were God's enemies, not good people. Passage uses three terms to describe our state when Christ died for us. The ungodly Sinners and enemies of God. Those are not good terms. But here's what they mean. Ungodly. Ungodly means that human beings are in a fallen condition and are unlike God. In the beginning, human beings were made in the image of God. We were made to be like God. We were given dominion over creation so that we would govern creation. In reflection of the character of God. God is wise, God is knowledgeable, God is caring. We are supposed to be that way. But because of the fall, the image of God is so broken, so distorted in us, that now instead of being a reflection of the character of God, we are ungodly. Our condition is so distorted, so twisted, that we're corrupted. Sinners then refers to the fact that we miss the mark of God's standard and we fall short of God's glory in our lives. It's more of a description of our ongoing activity. Ungodly is kind of our state, the state we've fallen into. And sinners is our ongoing activity. We keep doing what we want to do and not what God tells us to do. And even when we do sort of try to do what God tells us to do, we miss the mark or we fall short. We're sinners by nature. Finally, the third and the harshest term of all is enemies. speaks to the reality that we by nature are hostile to God and we are under his wrath as those who actively oppose him. ungodly sinners enemies. And then on top of that, we're told twice of our condition while we were sinners and enemies and ungodly. And that is that we were weak. Weak. If you understand these things seriously, if you take them seriously and you see things from God's perspective, it becomes really amazing and unexpectedly wonderful that Christ would come and die for us. Imagine a king who establishes a kingdom Then a rebel arises within that kingdom who hates the king. And that rebel strikes out and defaces the most precious thing. In all the kingdom, and then he leads a rebellion against the king, actively seeking to undermine the will of the king in his kingdom. And then the king finds this rebel, this vandal, this treasonous conspirator, finds him in a weak condition. What is that king going to do 100 times out of 100? Smush him Right? Here he is. He's raised his fist against me. He's attacked what's most precious to me. He's led others away from me. He's totally opposed to everything that I want in my kingdom. And here he is weak and vulnerable. Just get rid of him. And it is the astounding grace of God that human history did not end with two dark stains on the ground in the Garden of Eden. Because God had created a perfect paradise, a creation that was very good. And Adam and Eve listened to a serpent and rebelled against God. And it's God's mercy and grace that each one of our lives doesn't end that same way. Because before we come to Christ, by the grace of God, we live that way. We live as rebels. We live as enemies. Think about yourself personally. Think if there was someone in your life who hated you. Hated you. And who decided to just come to your house and and grotesquely deface the thing that was most important to you. I don't know what that might be. Maybe they set fire to your wedding dress or maybe they just, you know, smashed up whatever, your car or whatever, something that was really valuable to you. And then they lie about you. And they spread lies and they get other people to believe horrible things about you. Things that are just a complete distortion of your actual character and intent. Is this someone that you would be willing to lay down your life to help if they were in a bad spot? Would you be tempted to think if you saw them in a bad spot, serves your right? God saw us in that condition and He had pity on us He had pity on us and he loved us. And he loved us enough that he would send his one and only Son to die for us. To die for us. You know, there's there's hypothetical talk in this passage about a righteous person and a good person. In verse 7, for one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. That's a human illustration. We can think of that on a human level. You know, we might say, wow, you know, if somebody was coming after you and I had to jump in the way. to save your life, I would totally do it. Because you're just a great guy, or you're just a great person. But again, think about that person who's your enemy and who's lying about you and who's undermining you and who's betraying you, you're probably not thinking, oh, if something comes after them, I'm gonna jump right in the way and I say hypothetical because, you know, God has love for and sends his son to die for ungodly Sinners who are his enemies because that's the only kind of people there are. Jesus didn't come to die for good people for one reason. There ain't none. You know, he didn't send Jesus to come and die for the Easter bunny either. There's no such thing. The myth of the good person, the righteous person, the person who thinks, well, other people might need Jesus to die for their sins and to cover them because they're weak and pathetic. But I'm basically a good person and I'll be able to stand before God on my own two feet and uh I'll be able to pass that judgment day. No No, and notice I love how Paul puts himself right in here with us. You know, this is us. We. We were weak. We were enemies. We were sinners. This is the demonstration of God's love that He sends His Son for us. And here's what we need to be very clear. Very clear. It is not that Christ's death secured God's love for us. It was that God's love for us motivated him to send his son to lay down his life. I think about these scenarios. I talked about a king who had a rebel but who would treat him with kindness instead of, I say a hundred times out of a hundred, they would squish him But there was one time that didn't happen. At least not willingly. It's one of the weird stories in the Old Testament. The Bible's full of all sorts of weird stories. It's one of the reasons why I know it's true. Cause like made up stories, you're not gonna you're not gonna write like disturbing things, troubling things, confusing things. You're just gonna make it all neat and tidy and Tied up in a bow. But the people in the Bible are actual real people. So one of these weird stories in the Old Testament happens during Absalom's rebellion. So David is the king, right? David's king on the throne in Jerusalem, and he has a bunch of kids by a bunch of different wives, which is a whole nother story for a different day. But there's conflict between two of his sons. And David has to has to kind of deal with it. And the one son, Absalom, you know, he kills the other son, Amnon, because of a something wrong that Amnon did. But then Absalom resents David. He comes to like totally have no confidence in his leadership, either of his family or of his kingdom. And so Absalom begins to actively work to sabotage David's rule. Absalom spends years sitting in the city gate in Jerusalem lying to people about his father, the king. Someone came with a difficult case of injustice that they wanted to be heard. He would intercept them at the city gate and would tell them that the king has no one appointed to hear your case. And isn't that terrible? If only I were king, I would have someone appointed to hear your case This is not true, by the way. David did have judges who were appointed to deal with cases, but Absalom's just lying. And then he decides to take it one step further and he rounds up these disgruntled people who he's made angry at the king. And he gets them all together to lead an insurrection and to overthrow David. Overthrows him from the throne, drives him out of the city of Jerusalem, and then He's organizing a plan to send the army after him to kill him because he doesn't just want to remove him from his throne. He wants to take his life. And that is actually the natural human disposition toward God. Not only do we not want God to rule over us, but really on our own, in our own nature, we wish God didn't exist. Absalom leads this rebellion, but the tides turn, and David is able to rally his army around him. and get the upper hand, and there's a culminating battle where Absalom and his forces are driven away and they're being chased, and David gives a command. Do not harm the young man Absalom. Well Joab, who's the commander of David's army, he can't stand this thought. He's like, what kind of a dumb command is that? Because like I said, a hundred times out of a hundred, what does a king do in those situations? Squish him. But David says, don't, don't harm him. Joab can't handle this. So when he finds Absalom in a weak state, he kills him. He kills him. And when word gets back to David that his son has been killed He weeps and he mourns grievously. Oh my son, Absalom, my son, my son, Absalom, would I had died instead of you, O Absalom, my son, my son. Now on one level, on the practical level, we think, what a crazy thing for him to, you know, this guy was terrible. He was evil. But if you're a parent, you know. My son, my son, my son, my son, my son, he says six times. It is lament. He loves Absalom. And listen to the heart of it. Would I had died instead of you? This is the heart of the love of a father for a child. And from a political standpoint, it may have been senseless and crazy. But from the heart of a parent, you understand that is a picture, a reflection of God's love for his children. We may be rebels We may be sinners, but he says, You're my children, and I want you back. I want you reconciled to me. When we say that Jesus died for you as a demonstration of God's love, I want you to hear that the way the Bible teaches it, which is not as some sort of generic Abstract, universal thing. Well, of course he died for me just because I'm one of the masses of people. No, he died personally for you. The Bible tells us that God chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world. That he wrote our name in the book of life that he has engraved our names on the palms of his hands. He loved you personally, individually, so much that he gave his son for you. What did that accomplish? It showed how much God loves us, but it did more than that. Christ's death does more than just show us how much God loves us. There's three things that this passage tells us first, and this is a fill-in-the-blank time again, kids. Ready? First, his death justified us. It justified us, that is, we are declared not guilty by Jesus' death in our place. Second, his death reconciled us. Parents, you're going to have to help your kids spell these, sorry. Reconciled us. That is, we've been brought back into a right relationship with God. And third, his death ensures that we will be saved from the coming judgment of God. His death justifies us, his death reconciles us, and his death ensures that we will be saved from the coming judgment of God. The first reality justification is a legal declaration. We are not guilty. There's no accusation against us that can stand because Jesus paid it all. So when you sin and Satan comes at you, you know he's the master of the combo punch He jabs with his temptations, jab, jab, jab, and when he gets you to stumble, he then comes with the with the knockout punch of shame that he heaps on you. Ah, how could you be so stupid as to do that But when he comes with that shame, we need to remember, Jesus died for all of my sins. They've all been paid for. I am justified. I am not guilty in Jesus. I'm justified. The second reconciliation is a relational restoration. And that frees us from this feeling of alienation and isolation. Sometimes we feel like we're all on our own and we feel like God is a million miles away from us and what we're facing. But Christ's death reconciled us to God. We are reconciled to Him. He is with us. He is for us. We have a relationship with Him that cannot be broken. And then that third reality, we're saved from future judgment, it gives us a powerful hope that nothing in this life can take away because we know that we are secure for all eternity. We go through sufferings, we go through difficulties, but we know in the end we are secure for all eternity Our guilt is taken away, our alienation is taken away, our despair is taken away, and in its place is given peace, is given reconciliation, is given the hope of eternal life. This is what Jesus' death did for us. By faith, we believe in Jesus. We're joined to Him by faith. We know how much God loves us. We know that we are fully and freely forgiven forever. We know that God is our Father, Christ is our brother, the Spirit is our Comforter, and heaven is our home. That is true. And Jesus' death does all of that for us. So then how do we respond to these truths? These are just things we believe? The last verse tells us what we should do. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we've now received reconciliation. We rejoice in God through Christ. That's how we respond. What does that mean? Is that just some abstract platitude? We rejoice in God through Jesus Christ. No, it's actually a very practical call to live a determined joy in the light of what Christ has accomplished. Let me put this to you in sort of human terms that you can relate to. I ask you a question. What do you rejoice in and why? Just forget Bible church stuff. Just think about your life. What do you rejoice in and why? Kids, did you rejoice in the presence that were under the tree for you on Christmas morning? Did you? I hope so, right? Did you rejoice, those who who stayed up to midnight on New Year's Eve, and yes I still do that. Did you rejoice when the ball dropped and it was 2026? The new year is here. Yay! Maybe, maybe not. Right? It's a big year. 2026 is the 250th anniversary of our country. Declaration of Independence, 1776. Our country is 250 years old this year. Some of you later on today are hoping to rejoice in the outcome of a football game. I hear that there's some game happening that might have some importance. You will rejoice in the Ravens' victory if they defeat the evil Steelers. Now I think there are a couple of you here who are on the other side of things and who will rejoice if the Steelers win, but we won't go there. We'll pretend those people don't exist. Why what why do we do this? Well, we rejoice in those things that we feel connected to. Or that we feel benefit us in some way. Maybe you're not a sports person. Maybe you couldn't care less about football and who wins or loses. But maybe you rejoice in other things. Maybe a new novel comes out from your favorite author or a new album comes out from your favorite musical artist or um a new movie comes out in a franchise of movies that you like and you rejoice in those things. Why? Because you feel connected to that and you feel like it benefits you in some way. Now I probably shouldn't say this and it might get me booed out of the room, but here's the thing. Like, I don't think anybody in this room is going to have their lives actually change in any meaningful, measurable way based on the outcome of a football game later today. As far as I know, none of us work for the Ravens, none of us are known personally to the Ravens who might invite us to a celebration party or something. It's not really going to benefit us in any way But it'll feel good, right? Because our team gets to go into the playoffs, even if they get all the way to the Super Bowl. And that's fine. But here's the thing. We really are connected to Jesus. We really are in him, and he is in us. He knows us by name. We are his and he is ours. And what he accomplished on the cross and in the resurrection benefits us immensely and eternally. And we are called to rejoice in that and to live by joy in that. How can we do that? Let me suggest three practical ways that you can learn to live rejoicing in God through Jesus Christ. First, dive deep. Dive deep into what Christ has done for you. Listen, if you're a Ravens fan, I can probably ask you about Lamar Jackson. But he had his first full week of practice this past week. He's healthy. But you might be thinking, well, that's a good thing, but I hope that doesn't mean they're going to get away from just giving the ball to Derrick Henry a whole lot. And you might be thinking, John Harbaugh, you know, he's he's a good coach, but sometimes in the big moments he can make some bone-headed decisions And you would have you'll have detailed knowledge of these things. Or if you're an you know, a book person and you're waiting for the next novel, you're like, here's what's going on on the storyline, here's a I hope this happens with this character and this happens with this character, because you know. The things that you rejoice in, you are also capable of talking about at length because you know a lot about them, because you dive deep into them. And it's not work, it's not an obligation. You rejoice in them, and so you enjoy diving deep. So let me just invite you in 2026 to dive deep into the Lord. Get into his word. Study. Because this is your true and eternal joy and comfort. Think deeply, drink deeply of the fountain of God's grace. Second, reach out. When you're feeling guilty or alienated or fearful for the future, reach out to God and worship. Reach out to God's people for prayer. Pray. Pour your heart out to God. Get together with others and pray for each other. And that leads me to my third point. Get together. You dive deep, you reach out, you get together. Fans love watching the game together with other fans of the same team. The Browns, our friends, the Browns are going to get together and watch the game later today. And uh Caleb is the sole Steelers fan in his household. So he will be there. I think some of you here also have that situation where someone is the lone Steeler fan Who's going to be watching it? But generally you like watching it with the people who are rooting for the same team as you. We need each other. We're not just fans of Jesus. We're on the same team. We are in the same kingdom. We're following the same Lord. Don't neglect coming together for Sunday school, for worship. for Bible study, for prayer gathering, for small group, because we need to get together. So rejoice in God through Jesus Christ. And grow in your capacity to do that by diving deep into his word, reaching out to him in prayer and worship, and getting together with other people. As we do this, we will be strengthened by that joy. We'll be more secure in our eternal comfort, come what may. Let's do that. Let's pray Father in heaven, thank you for giving your son for us. Lord Jesus, thank you for coming to our rescue, even though it cost you everything. your very life, you willingly poured yourself out on the cross for us and for our salvation. Lord, help us to rejoice in you. Help us to grow in our knowledge of you, our understanding of you in your ways, so that we can speak of you to others, so that we can celebrate you meaningfully. Help us to reach out to you, cry out to you in prayer, lift up our hands to you in worship when we are struggling. Help us to not neglect getting together with your people that we might encourage one another in the Lord. We pray all these things, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen