Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our third day of our 11th week here on this Wednesday of Holy Week, and we're hearing from Jesus on words that he spoke during Holy Week in the Gospel of Matthew. Today we're going to be looking at Matthew 2337. to 24. 2, and then also praying through Psalm 54. And our key question for today that we're asking is, what is God's plan? For the Jewish people. What is God's plan for the Jewish people? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Please write it on our hearts. We need to hear from you. We need your wisdom, we need your guidance, your Holy Spirit, and so we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 23. Um starting in verse I'm actually going to start in verse twenty-nine and then go to chapter twenty-four, verse two. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you build the tombs of the prophets and decorate the monuments of the righteous. saying, if we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of prophets. Thus you witness against yourselves that you are the sons of those who murdered the prophets. Fill up then the measure of your fathers, you serpents, you brood of vipers, how are you to escape being sentenced to hell? Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes, some of whom you kill and crucify, and some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town, so that on you may come All the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah the son of Barakiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar, truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it. How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing. See, your house has left you desolate, for I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Jesus left the temple and was going away when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple. But he answered them, You see all these, do you not? Truly I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. One of the most heartbreaking aspects of the Gospels is watching the Jewish people reject their long-awaited Messiah and come under God's judgment as a result. For most of Jesus' ministry, the crowds of common people flocked to him and surrounded him. while the religious leaders stood far off, judging him and plotting against him. But by the end the leaders had turned the crowds against him. The Jewish people cried out for the Son of David to be crucified. Jesus made the consequences of their rejection very clear. Truly, truly, I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. In his parable of the owner and the tenants of the vineyard, the wedding feast and others, Jesus made it clear that the kingdom of God was going to be taken away from the Jewish people and given to others, to the Gentiles The nature of the kingdom has been transformed from a geopolitical power associated with a single ethnicity to a worldwide movement of people from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. But is the story over for the Jewish people? Have they played their part and been set aside permanently? No. Jesus said that Jerusalem would not see him again until they say, Blessed is he who comes. in the name of the Lord. This was the proper and triumphant cry on Palm Sunday, but it was too quickly changed to crucify, crucify. Jesus said it will rise again from the lips of Jewish people. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. and they s before they see him again face to face. Zechariah the prophet foretold this day, the merciful turning of the hearts of the Jewish people to their Messiah. He said in Zechariah 12. 10, and I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and please for mercy. so that when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him as one weeps for a firstborn. Paul also tells of this turning of the Jewish people to their Messiah in Romans 11. Romans 11, verses 25 to 27. Lest you be wise in your own eyes, I do not want you to be unaware of this mystery, brothers, a partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in, and in this way all Israel will be saved, as it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion. He will banish ungodliness from Jacob, and this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins. So, pray for Jewish people God has not set them aside forever. He will bring them back to himself through Christ. And work hard to advance the gospel to the nations. For God says that the Jewish people will turn to him once the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 54. It's written to the choirmaster with stringed instruments at the masculine of David. It was written when the Ziphites went and told Saul, Is not David hiding among us? O God, save me by your name and vindicate me by your might. O God, hear my prayer. Give ear to the words of my mouth. For strangers have risen against me. Ruthless men seek my life. They do not set God before themselves. Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is the upholder of my life. He will return the evil to my enemies. In your faithfulness, put an end to them. With a free will offering I will sacrifice to you. I will give thanks to your name, O Lord, for it is good, for he has delivered me from every trouble, and my eye has looked in triumph on my enemies. pray. Heavenly Father, we live in a reality where there are many enemies to the gospel. Your church has been called and commissioned by you to take the gospel to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. Take it to the ends of the earth, that all may know that Jesus is Lord. And yet there are enemies. There are spiritual forces of wickedness that that blind the minds of unbelievers. There are political forces of corruption and oppression that restrict the freedom of their people. There are forces within your church that would prioritize other things above the spread of the gospel, above the gospel of Jesus Christ. Father, we pray that you would send out your word, that the nations would hear, that you would bring in the full number of the Gentiles, and That you would bring a revival, a salvation among the Jewish people, as you've promised to do in your word. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope it was an enlightening time for you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And I hope that you have a blessed day in the Lord.