Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is so good to be with you as we come to the end of week forty. Together we're in John twenty-one, verses one to fourteen, and we're asking, how did, or sorry, why did the disciples Go fishing after the resurrection. So it's a why question today. Why did the disciples go fishing after the resurrection? Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. As we come now to the final chapter of this fourth gospel, please teach us by your Holy Spirit that we might grow in knowledge, understanding, and wisdom, that we might see Jesus and love him and follow him more. In Jesus' name. Amen. John 21, 1-14. After this, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberias, and he revealed himself in this way. Simon Peter, Thomas called the twin, Nathanael of Cana and Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. They said to him, We will go with you. They went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing. Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore, yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to them, Children! Do you have any fish? They answered him, No. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. So they cast it. And now they were not able to haul it in because of the quantity of fish. That disciple, whom Jesus loved, therefore said to Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, He put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea. The other disciple came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from the land, but about a hundred yards off. When they got out on land, there was they saw a charcoal fire in place, with fish laid out on it, and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of large fish, 153 of them. And although there were so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord. Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish. This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. So, sometime after the resurrection of Jesus, we have seven of Jesus' eleven disciples. They're together in Galilee. Now, we might quickly ask ourselves why they're in Galilee and not still in Jerusalem, but they are from Galilee, and it would be natural for them to go home. And in fact, Jesus had sent word that he was going to meet them in Galilee. So Peter In Galilee declares to the others that he's going fishing. And the rest of them declare that they're going to go with him. So they all go fishing together. Why? Why go fishing? Many people have chastised the disciples for this decision. They've said the disciples should have stayed in Jerusalem and waited for the Holy Spirit to come. They said they should have started proclaiming Jesus' resurrection right away, after all. They've seen the risen Jesus. How could they just go back home and go back to their former way of life after having seen Jesus conquer death and rise again? It seems so out of place, doesn't it? Well, maybe But Matthew Henry offers a defense of the disciples' actions. He suggests that by going fishing, the disciples were resolved not to just sit around being idle. And they were seeking to earn a living for themselves so that they would not be a burden to others. John Calvin, writing a couple hundred years before Matthew Henry, agrees, saying That Peter gave his attention to fishing ought not to be regarded as inconsistent with his office. By breathing on him, Jesus had ordained him to be an apostle, as we saw a little before. But he abstained from the exercise of the apostleship for a short time, till he should be clothed with new power. For he had not yet been enjoined to appear in public for the discharge of his office of teaching, but he had only been reminded of his future calling, that he and others might understand that they had not been in vain uh that i sorry, that they had not in vain been chosen from the beginning. Meanwhile, they do what they were accustomed to do and what belonged to men in private life By the way, this reinforces the idea that when Jesus breathed on them and said, Receive the Holy Spirit in the upper room in chapter twenty, it was not the actual giving of the Holy Spirit, but a sign and a promise of that, because it's not until Pentecost when the Holy Spirit actually comes in fulfillment of that promise that Peter stands up and starts preaching. But anyway, whether these disciples were misguided or whether they were acting perfectly naturally When we examine this event in the lives uh in the light of God's providence, we can see another angle. Whatever their motivations may have been God has ordained that they should return to fishing again so that Jesus could reveal himself to them again in an unmistakable way. God kept them from catching any fish all night. You know, we often think of the miraculous catches as being when God provided fish for them. But the same God who provided the fish for them miraculously kept them from catching the fish all night. That is something we need to keep in mind if we feel like we're in a period of our lives when it feels like we're fishing all night and catching nothing. God is just as sovereign over the empty net as he is over the full net. God wanted them to be in the same state of disappointment that they had been in three years earlier. Just as Jesus had done years before, so now he gifts them with this miraculous haul of fish. This time we're told the exact number of fish that they've caught. Some people have speculated that this number of fish would correspond to the number of nations or ethnic groups in the known world at that time. And supposedly this would then be a reminder of their calling to take the gospel to the nations. Seems to be more speculation than fact, but it does seem reasonable to propose that the large number of fish was to make it clear that the catch was miraculous and abundant. It was God miraculously providing for them. And Jesus certainly does use this occasion to call them back to their task. Jesus graciously and powerfully revealed himself to his disciples so that they would have no doubt that it was really him. He showed them his great power over the fish, that they might trust him and depend on him. He was also preparing them for his recommissioning of Peter, which we're going to look at next week. Peter had called Jesus away from the nets and to be a fisher of men in these exact same circumstances, perhaps at this exact same spot. Now he is going to restore him and renew that call. We'll look at that next week. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you that you call us. You give each of us the calling that you have for us in life. And that calling is from you, and that calling is secured by you. And we thank you for it. Would you please help us to be faithful? Help us to know that you are with us. Help us to know that you provide for us. Whether the nets are empty or full, it comes from your hand. And we can trust you because your presence and your power are real. They are just as real with us today. as they were with the disciples on that shore, the Sea of Galilee, 2,000 years ago. Help us to live by faith, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, so please plan to join me next week as we just have two more uh uh devotionals to go in John's Gospel. I hope you have a great weekend. I hope you are able to worship with us at Forest 12 Church on on the Lord's Day. Looking forward to Um coming to the second half of Romans chapter 4 and uh looking at the faith of Abraham and the death and resurrection of Jesus. So that's coming up on Sunday. Hope you can join us for that. Hope you can be back here on Monday morning. Have a blessed day.