Psalm twenty-three, a psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies, you anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, what wonderful, powerful, and much needed comfort we get from your word And the truth that it tells us about who you are, about who we are, about what we need and how you provide that need Would you speak to us as we spend time in Psalm 23 this morning? Would you be glorified as we think on your word, as we receive your word together in Jesus' name. Jesus' name, Amen. You may be seated. In the very heart of Psalm twenty three, David says, I will fear no evil. When I was a kid, I used to watch creepy horror movies. And I was the youngest of four children. And I thought somehow it made me older and tougher to watch these scary movies that were way inappropriate for my age. What I didn't tell anyone is that I got terrible nightmares from these movies. I would wake up in the middle of the night panicked because the bad guy from the horror movie was chasing me and I couldn't get away and then I'd fall back asleep and he'd right be back chasing me again. And it was terrible. These days, you probably wouldn't be surprised that it's not horror movies that wake me up in the middle of the night and give me a hard time falling back asleep. But I still have things that Way on my heart that scare me. Still things that cause me to fear. So I wonder, what is it that makes you afraid? What causes you to lose sleep at night? What causes you to be awake in the middle of the night unable to rest? Or what makes you so scared that you don't really want to face what tomorrow might bring because it might be something that you couldn't handle We all fear. And even though David says here, I will fear no evil, David himself knew what it was to be afraid. In Psalm 56, he says, When I am afraid, I will trust in you, in God, whose word I praise. Well, he says, when I am afraid, which means he was afraid. Sometimes we get afraid because of things that other people are doing to us. Or maybe things that the culture is doing to our kids or our grandkids. Sometimes we're afraid because of circumstances that are beyond our control. Sometimes we're deeply ashamed and even afraid of our own hearts and our own behavior, our own thoughts. Things that we've done or said or thought that scare us, how could that be in my head? How could that have come out of my mouth? How could I have treated that person that way David certainly knew all these different kinds of fear. He had lots of opportunities to be able to say, when I am afraid. He didn't appear to be particularly well liked by his older siblings. If you read either the story of David and Goliath and when he shows up at the camp His older brothers are mocking him and picking on him, or when Samuel shows up in his house to anoint one of the sons of Jesse to be the next king over Israel Jesse parades all of his sons before Samuel. And Samuel says, well, none of these are the next king. Are these all the sons you have? And Jesse says, oh, right, I forgot. I have another one. The runt of the litter. He's out watching over a few sheep. I guess we'll get him to come in. So he grew up in a household where he was the youngest and overlooked and made fun of and despised. Well, then after he was anointed as king, and after he defeated Goliath, and after he was a great warrior, the king took a disliking to him and hunted him down for his very life. Seeing him as a threat to his dynasty, King Saul, take the whole army of Israel to hunt down David and his mighty men. After he became king, he dealt with conflict in his household. He had deep anxiety for his children. I mean, one of his sons murdered another one of his sons. He lived with uncertainty. He often did not know what would come next. He spent many nights hiding out in caves, wondering what might come at him in the middle of the night. And then he had evil in his own heart that had to have kept him awake at night Psalm 32, when David's reflecting back upon the evil of his sin with Bathsheba, he said, When I kept silent, my bones wasted away. It was so unpleasant. within my heart because I had sinned grievously against the Lord and I was trying to cover it up. So David knew. He knew all the various forms and shapes and shadows that come in the valley of the shadow of death. And yet he's able to write here in Psalm 23: Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. This is our third message in Psalm 23. Our first message we focused on the fact that the Lord leads us, our good shepherd leads us, that he's always with us. Sometimes he's leading us to green pastures besides quiet waters, sometimes he's leading us through the valley of the shadow of death, sometimes he's leading us. to a table that he prepares in the presence of our enemies, but ultimately he will lead us all the way to his home. And then last time we looked at how he feeds us. He feeds us in every season of life with himself through his word and through his table and through the gathered worship of his people. He's always knowing what our souls need and always feeding us. Today we're just going to be focusing mostly on this verse 4 and how it is that he keeps us. So he leads us, he feeds us, and he keeps us. And he keeps us with a rod and a staff. With the rod, he protects us. And with the staff, he corrects us. So he he leads, he feeds, he keeps, he protects, and he corrects us. In John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, the scariest place in the whole story, there's a lot of scary places in the story The castle of giant despair, the valley of humiliation with Apollyon. But the scariest place in the whole story is the Valley of the Shadow of Death The Valley of the Shadow of Death is dark. It is pitch dark. And it's a narrow path that on one side there is a ditch. that falls off who knows how far. And on the other side is a quagmire that if you were to get stuck in it, you might not ever get out again. So you have to stay on the narrow path. But there are things coming up out of the ditch, creatures from hell, demons. To terrify. And if you were to react in fear against them, you would end up in the quagmire, and you might be stuck there. You can't see. It's too dark to see. So he can't even read the scroll that he's been given. It's too dark even to read the Bible. So all he can do is pray and keep walking. Sometimes we're in a place where we're so overwhelmed by something, whatever it is, and and we go to the Bible and we read it and it just It doesn't seem to mean much or help much. I'm not getting and sometimes all we can do is pray. Sometimes we don't even know how to pray. Romans 8 tells us that even when we don't know how to pray, the Spirit helps us with groanings that are too deep for words. As Christians entering into the valley of the shadow of death, he's given a warning And that is that there is something worse than what is in the valley of the shadow of death. Because as he's entering into the shadow, Two men come running out in terror. They're running back from the way to heaven. And they tell him, you don't want to go in there. It's pitch black. There's demons, there's hobgoblins, there's specters, there's people that are in chains and wailing. It's horrible. And Christian says, but this is the way to heaven. And they say, if that's true, I mean going that way. And there he gets a lesson going in, and that is that there is something worse than the hidden dangers of the Valley of the Shadow of Death, and that is that we might be so afraid of them that we would stop following the Lord. That we would do anything to get away from the things that we're afraid of, even running in the opposite direction of what we know to be God's will. That's why David has to say, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Because it's the fear of the evil that can drive us to do worse things than that evil might do to us. In the Valley of the Shadow of Death, the most important thing is to stick close to the shepherd. To walk with him. It's the only way we can walk through safely. But we're afraid. And fear is not without cause. The evil in the valley of the shadow of death is real, it's dangerous. In life, we face two kinds of evil. We face evil that's outside of us. The sins of other people can hurt us. The sin that abounds in our culture can distress us. The lies that are told about Christ, about the gospel, can be overwhelming to us. There's all sorts of evil outside of us. Some of it might even be coming after us in our family. My dad used to say, just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not out to get you. And that can be Right? Like, man, um you're kind of paranoid about this cultural decay, aren't you? Well, maybe I am, but that doesn't mean it's not real But then there's the evil within us. Isn't it not worse? Because sometimes We're tempted to go along with the world. Sometimes we're tempted to believe the seeds of doubt that the devil plants in our hearts and minds, the dark accusations that he makes. Against the character of God. Sometimes we in our hearts give in to doubt, unbelief, or selfishness, or covetousness, or a hundred other things that would lead us away from the good shepherd. And so we need the comfort. of his rod and his staff. Shepherd carries two things. Carries a rod, which is a stick about that big. It's thicker on one end. It's a club, basically. And it's used to fight off the enemies. David, who wrote Psalm 23 when he was going to fight Goliath King Saul made fun of him and he said, How are you possibly going to face him? You are only a youth, and he has been a man of war since his youth. In other words, kid, you ain't got a chance. And David talks about how he would protect his sheep. And he says, if a lion came and took one of my sheep, I would grab him. And I would force him to let go of the sheep. Well, the way you do that, lion's got a sheep in its mouth, you grab it by the mane and you whack it over the head with the stick. That's the rod of the shepherd. I wouldn't do that. I'd be like, well, I guess we're down our sheet today Oh well. But David David had done that. And so David, having done that himself, rescued sheep from the lion and from the bear. He knew the shepherd's rod is there committed to protecting his own. And the staff, the staff is used, it's a longer stick. And it has a hook at the end usually. They come in different shapes and sizes. The classic one has that, you know, shepherd's crook at the end. And the staff is used for correction. When sheep are going astray. And so the rod protects us from the enemies out there, and the staff protects us from the enemy in here. Our good shepherd is always with us. He's always for us. But we do face enemies. And despite what form the enemy's attacks come in, the number one thing that whatever enemy attack it might be The number one thing the enemy is trying to get us to do is to walk away or run away from the Good Shepherd. That's what he wants to do. He wants separation between us and the Good Shepherd. We have three enemies. Scripture teaches us the three enemies we face are the world, our flesh, and the devil. Now, what does it mean when the world is our enemy? Kids, you may have heard people say this: the world is our enemy. And you might think, what does it even mean? Does that mean like the rocks and the trees and the squirrels? Well, squirrels are the enemy, but Um no, he's not talking about creation. He's not talking about watch out when you walk out the front door because killer rabbits might come hopping at your face. It's not that. The world is humanity organized in rebellion against God And ever since the fall, humanity has been organized in rebellion against God. You may be bothered by the fact that our culture seems to be ever increasingly hostile to the Christian faith, and there's a truth to that. And certainly the moral standards of our culture have definitely deteriorated greatly over the past few decades. But the truth is, listen, the truth is that the world has always been In determined and organized opposition against biblically faithful Christianity. Some people long for the good old days when Christianity was established as the official religion in the land and it was was even enforced by law. Some people long for that. It'd be safer, it'd be easier, wouldn't it? No. It wouldn't be. If you actually study church history, what you find out is that that's when a lot of Christians were killed. A lot of faithful Christians were killed by other professing Christians who had the power and they were going to use it to get rid of their enemies. Under Bloody Mary, when she was Queen of England, there were over 300 pastors and theologians who were burned at the stake for being faithful to Christ and his gospel. And so that's not the solution. The world has always been hostile to biblically faithful Christianity. The world is not drawn to Christ. The world is driven by three core principles. Principles that are outlined for us in 1 John 2, 15 to 17. God tells us, Do not love the world or the things that are in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him, for all that is in the world. The desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and the pride of life is not from the Father, but from the world And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. The world is driven by these three basic core principles: the desires of the flesh. The desires of the eyes, and the pride of life. The world is our enemy because all of these things draw our hearts away from our good shepherd. And they're dangerous to us because our flesh longs for those things too. Here's where we need to be clear and understand the real danger we face from our enemy the world. The real danger, Scripture is so clear about this, the real danger from our enemy the world is not That the world might hate us. The Bible guarantees that the world will hate us Jesus said in John 15, If the world hates you, know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, then the world would love you as its own, but because you're not of the world, But I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you. A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me. We should expect from the world, the more faithful we are to Jesus, we should expect from the world the same reception that Jesus got. And that is that there were some who received his word, there were some who followed him, there were some who he formed into the church, but there were many who said, get rid of this guy, he is a problem. Why? Because Jesus didn't dance to their tune. He wasn't living for the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life. Satan came after him with those same temptations. Turn this stone into bread? That's lust of the flesh. You can have all the kingdoms of the world, that's lust of the eyes. Why don't you show off and throw yourself down from the pinnacle of the temple? His angels will give Will bear you up on their wings. That's the pride of life. Be a show-off. Jesus said no to all of them. He said, man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. He says, Worship and serve God only and do not put God to the test. In other words, he's not going to live selfishly. And the world doesn't know what to do with people who refuse to live selfishly. If you're willing to live selfishly, you're incredibly easy to manipulate. You just got to figure out what what is the thing that scratches your itch and then get you to dance. To the tune. But if you refuse to live selfishly, if you're saying I'm living for the glory of God, for the furtherance of his kingdom, for the blessing of his people, the world's like, I can't sell that. I can't market that. I can't put that bait on a hook and draw you after my way. And that's when the world hates us. Paul said in 1 Timothy 3. 12, indeed all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted He didn't say some who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus might be persecuted. He said all will be. And then the Apostle Peter writes in 1 Peter 4, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something Strange were happening to you, but rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed Because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. So we have Jesus, we have Paul, and we have Peter all telling us the same thing. It's normal, it's expected, in fact, it's even blessed. To be persecuted for being a follower of Christ. So don't get angry about it or afraid of it. Praise God and carry on. In what he's called you to do. In fact, you know, Jesus, Paul, and Peter all have something in common besides telling us about the persecution of the world, and that is all three of them. The world said, We've had enough of you and put them to death. Jesus was raised again from the dead on the third day, and Paul and Peter, they just entered into their eternal heavenly life. reward. Because ultimately that kind of violent opposition from the world can't do anything to us but bring us home to be with Jesus. The danger is when we allow the world, either through enticement or intimidation. To drive us away from following after the good shepherd. That's the real danger. So so we're in real danger, not when the world hates us, but when we love the world. the danger. The world is always using tactics to draw our hearts away from Jesus, and behind the world is, of course, the devil. The prince of this world, the prince of the power of the air, the God of this age, the enemy of our souls. And 1 Peter in chapter 5, he tells us this: humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God. that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him Firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little while The God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be dominion forever and ever. Our enemy has been defeated. He has been defeated at the cross, but he still prowls around looking for someone to devour. Now, who do lions go after to devour? Sheep? Which sheep? The young ones? The weak ones? And how particularly do they get them? It's a very specific tactic. Get them away from the flock. Further from the flock, further from the good shepherd, off on their own, easy pickings. I don't think it's any coincidence. I believe that the evangelical church in America is one of the most spiritually weak in the history of God's church. We are self-indulgent, we are lazy, we are easily distracted, we are worldly. Christianity is about a hundred miles across and about half an inch deep. And the the majority now, for the first time in survey taking history, the majority of professing evangelical Christians in America have no church home. They're not part of any church. They're solo sheep. And then you add the danger, they're solo sheep who spend a lot of time online. Do you know that the people in our culture who spend the most time online are four times more likely to be not religious? If Satan can get you away from the church and online a lot, he's got you. He's got you where he wants you. Coming here on Sunday morning and being committed to being a part of this body is is spiritual warfare. It is your defiance of the devil and the world. The world says, this doesn't make any sense. Why in the world would you take hours out of your life to just come and sit and listen to some guy talk? Well you're not listening to some guy talk. We are here together listening to the word of God And we are being equipped, and we are being strengthened, and we are being renewed by grace, and we are being prepared to stand together against the enemy. But it's not just the world, and it's not just the devil, of course. The reason why these things work is because our own hearts. Are so prone to wander. Prone to wander. Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart. Take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. And so the shepherd has a staff. Here's how shepherding works. If the sheep will listen to the shepherd's voice, he doesn't need to use the staff at all. Because they follow when he says follow. And they stick with the herd and they're following the shepherd. Good But if they aren't listening really well, and they're distracted, because sheep are easily distracted, and they're scared, sheep are easily scared. And they start to go astray, the shepherd will reach out with a sack, and at first he'll simply offer a light tap of correction. Hey, hey, wake up. We're going this way. You didn't hear my voice, so now I'm going to give you this light tap of correction. But then there are their sheep. Who insists on wandering off. And sometimes they get themselves stuck in thorny bushes. There's a lot of thorny bushes in Israel. And they will get themselves stuck in the thorny bush, or they'll just be persistent in wandering away. And that's where The length of the shepherd's staff and the hook at the end is important because the shepherd will put that hook around the sheep, oftentimes around its neck, and will pull it back. And that doesn't feel good. And if the sheep has gotten itself into a thorny bush, and the shepherd can't really go into the thorny bush, And get he takes the staff and pulls that sheep out of that thorny bush. That really doesn't feel good. And so for us we need to know that our shepherd loves us. He loves us too much to let us be complacent in our sin. And so he calls us, but we won't listen. He'll tap us. Sometimes the tap comes when we immediately see the consequences of our sin. We realize, oh, that was really dumb. I shouldn't have done that. And then we're corrected. But sometimes, if we're stubborn, he's got to grab us around the neck and pull us back. And that means We might be hurting. But the hurting is for our good. Sometimes really hard things come into our lives because the shepherd knows that that's how he gets our attention. Doesn't mean every time something hard comes into your life, it's because you're being unfaithful to the shepherd, but the shepherd knows how to get your attention. And so we need to turn to him. How do we stick close to him in the dark valleys? How do we How do we rely on the Good Shepherd? Well, we do so, of course, in the Word of God. That's how He leads us and how He feeds us. But we also do so through prayer. Remember, a Christian, when the valley was so dark that he couldn't read the Bible, he could pray. He could pray. And so that's how we, when we're in deep darkness, when we're scared, we can pray. Sometimes you wake up in the middle of the night with something really weighing heavily on your heart, you can't really get to your Bible. It's not easy. You're in bed. But you can pray right then and there. You can cry out to the Lord. But how do we pray? How do we pray? To sit close to our shepherd. Well, the Westminster Shorter Catechism has a great question and answer about prayer that gives us really Question 98 says, what is prayer? And the answer is, prayer is an offering up of our desires unto God. For things agreeable to his will in the name of Christ with confession of our sins and thankful acknowledgement for his mercies. So we've got five things here about good prayer, prayer that really is for the shepherd's heart. And draws us close to the shepherd. First of all, it is an offering up of our desires unto God. That means first and foremost our prayers have to be honest. We have to tell God what we're afraid of, what we're concerned about, what we're anxious for, what we think we need. There's no point, you know, dressing it up with all sorts of flowery language to try to impress God and hide what's really going on Honest prayer. He wants our hearts. Secondly, for things agreeable to his will That means that our prayer must be humble and submissive. He is the king. We are not. He's the good shepherd. We're the sheep. Who knows better? A shepherd or a sheep? If you know sheep, you know it's not sheep. He's the savior. We're the sinners who need saving So we have to submit things agreeable to his will. Lord, if it be your will, Lord, according to your will, please. Just even as Jesus himself had to pray in the Garden of Gethsemane, Lord, if it's possible, Father, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. And yet, not my will, but your will be done. And third is in the name of Christ. That's the only way we have access to the Father is through Jesus. He's our righteousness, he's our forgiveness, he's our peace with God. He's our high priest. We come in his name and according to his character. And then fourth, with confession of our sins. It means that we are humbly and honestly confessing all known sin and asking for forgiveness and deliverance. We may be in a situation of our own making. It may be because we've sinned grievously that we're in this difficult place. We have to be honest with God about that. Lord, I need your help. I can't get out of this. I I know that I've sinned. I know that I did exactly what I knew not to do. And now these are the consequences. Would you please have mercy on me in the name of Jesus? Would you please, by the, by the mercies of Christ, Deliver me. And then finally, with thankful acknowledgement for his mercies, meaning that we're grateful for all the good that God has shown us that we don't deserve. Lord, you've been saved So good to me, and I don't deserve anything from you, but your mercies have been new every morning. They've been great. They've been abundant. So we've got to pray in this way, in a way that's honest. In a way that's submissive, in a way that's Christ-centered, in a way that's humble, repentant, and thankful. That is prayer that draws us to God. Where our hearts are the heart are for the heart of the Good Shepherd. Because it shows that we trust the Good Shepherd. And that's ultimately what we need. We need to really trust the Good Shepherd. Yes, we have our own set of ideas. Sometimes we're too quick to do that. I mean, I am too quick to do that. Lord, here's my list of things that I would like you to sign off on, please. I can alphabetize it for you. I can put it in chronological order, the order in which I need to receive it. Here it is. If you sign there, we'll be good to go. No. Yes, we tell him our desires, but we say your will be done only according to Jesus and what his character and will be Would be for our lives. We are sinful. We trust you. And that's the biggest thing. I think the biggest thing God's teaching us through Psalm 23 is that we can trust our good shepherd. And we must trust our Good Shepherd. He is good. He loves us so much, He laid down His life for us. And He never leaves us and He never forsakes us. We don't need to think, oh, maybe he's mad at me today, oh maybe he's not going to listen to me right now, or maybe he's just being mean, or you know. No, he's good. He loves us, he's given us everything. He's a wise shepherd. He knows the right paths to lead us on. He knows what food our souls need. He feeds us with himself through his word and his table. And he's a strong shepherd. He knows how to guard us from our enemies, how to correct us from straying. And when we do stray, he leaves the 99 To pursue us and bring us back, even if it's painful for us. He knows we need it, and it's for our good in the long term. So our shepherd is good. Our shepherd is wise, our shepherd is strong beyond our imagination. And the question is, will we trust him? Will we follow him? Will we look to him? Will we say, you're the king, you're the shepherd, you're the one I trust, I will follow you. His love, his wisdom, his strength will never fail. Let's follow close behind him. Let's pray. O Lord Jesus, our good shepherd, there is no one as good, as wise, as holy, as just As strong as you. We spend far too much time worrying. When we should be resting. We spend far too much time trying to figure things out when we should be listening. We spend far too much time trying to get our own way rather than rejoicing in your ways Give us the grace by your Holy Spirit to follow after you every day of our lives, every step that we take. In Jesus' name. Amen.