Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 1065 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and today we are in Habakkuk, and we're going to cover the whole book of Habakkuk. I know we say one chapter per day, but that's just sort of a general rule of thumb. Today we're going to cover the whole book of Habakkuk, which is three chapters. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for your faithfulness to us. Thank you for being with us and for speaking to us through your word day by day. Speak to us now through the Prophet Habakkuk. Write these words on our hearts. May the burden that you gave to Habakkuk become our burden that we might glorify you in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Habakkuk, the oracle or burden that Habakkuk the prophet saw. O Lord! How long shall I cry for help and you will not hear? Or cry to you, violence, and you will not save Why do you make me see iniquity? And why do you idly look at wrong? Destruction and violence are before me, strife and contention arise. So the law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth. For the wicked surround the righteous, and justice goes forth perverted. Look among the nations and see, wonder, and be astounded, for I am doing a work in your days that you would not believe if told. For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans. that bitter and hasty nation, who march through the breadth of the earth to seize dwellings not their own, they are dreaded and fearsome. Their justice and dignity go forth from themselves. Their horses are swifter than leopards, more fierce than the evening wolves. Their horsemen press proudly on. Their horsemen come from afar. They fly like an eagle swift to devour. They all come for violence, all their faces forward. They gather captives like sand. At kings they scoff, and at rulers they laugh. They laugh at every fortress, for they pile up earth and take it. Then they sweep by like the wind and go on. Guilty men. whose own might is their God. Are you not foreverlasting, O Lord my God, my holy one? We shall not die. O Lord, you have ordained them as a judgment, and you, O rock, have established them for reproof. You who are of purer eyes than to see evil. and cannot look at wrong. Why do you idly look at traitors and remain silent when the wicked swallows up the man more righteous than he? You make mankind like the fish of the sea, like crawling things that have no ruler. He brings all of them up with a hook, he drags them out with his net, he gathers them in his dragnet, so he rejoices and is glad Therefore he sacrifices to his net and makes offerings to his dragnet, for by them he lives in luxury, and his food is rich Is he then to keep on emptying his net and mercilessly killing nations for ever? I will take my stand at my watchpost, and station myself on the tower, and look out to see what he will say to me and what I will answer concerning my complaint. And the Lord answered me. Write the vision, make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it. For still the vision awaits its appointed time. It hastens to the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay. Behold, his soul is puffed up It is not upright within him, but the righteous shall live by his faith. Moreover, wine is a traitor, an arrogant man who is never at rest. His greed is as wide as Sheol. Like death, he never has enough. He gathers for himself all nations, and collects as his own all peoples. Shall not all these take up their taunt against him with scoffing and riddles for him, and say, Woe to him who heaps up what is not his own, for how long, and loads himself with pledges Will not your debtors suddenly arise, and those who awake, who will make you tremble? Then you will be spoiled for them Because you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the peoples shall plunder you. For the blood of man And violence to the earth, to cities, and all who dwell in them. Woe to him who gets evil gained for his house. To set his nest on high, to be safe from the reach of harm. You have devised shame for your house by cutting off many peoples. You have forfeited your life For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the woodwork respond. Woe to him who builds a town with blood and founds a city on iniquity Behold, is it not from the Lord of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire, and nations weary themselves for nothing? For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Woe to him who makes his neighbors drunk You pour out your wrath and make them drunk, in order to gaze at their nakedness. You will have your fill of shame instead of glory. Drink yourself and show your uncircumcision. The cup in the Lord's right hand will come around to you, and utter shame will come upon your glory The violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm you, as will the destruction of the beast that terrified them. For the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities and all who dwell in them. What prophet is an idol? When its maker has shaped it, a metal image, a teacher of lies, for its maker trusts in his own creation. when he makes speechless idols. Woe to him who says to a wooden thing, Awake to a silent stone. To a silent stone, arise. Can this teach? Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, and there is no breath at all in it but the Lord. Is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silence before him A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet according to Shigeonath. O Lord. I have heard the report of you, and your work, O Lord, do I fear. In the midst of the years, revive it. In the midst of the years, make it known. In wrath, remember mercy. God came from Timon and the Holy One from Mount Peron, Selah. His splendor covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise. His brightness was like the light. Rays flashed from his hand, and there he veiled his power. Before him went pestilence, and plague followed at his heels. He stood and measured the earth. He looked and shook the mountains. Then the eternal mountains were scattered. The everlasting hills sank low. His were the everlasting ways. I saw the tents of Kushan in affliction. The curtains of the land of Midian did tremble Was your wrath against the rivers, O Lord? Was your anger against the rivers, or your indignation against the sea, when you rode on your horses, on your chariot of salvation? You stripped the sheath from your bow, calling for many arrows, you split the earth with rivers. The mountains saw you and writhed. The raging waters swept on. The deep gave forth its voice. It lifted its hands on high. The sun and moon stood still in their place at the light of your arrows as they sped. At the flash of your glittering spear, you marched through the earth in fury. You threshed the nations in anger. You went out for the salvation of your people. For the salvation of your anointed, you crushed the head of the house of the wicked, laying him bare from thigh to neck You pierced with his own arrows the heads of his warriors, who came like a whirlwind to scatter me, rejoicing as if to devour the poor in secret. You Trampled the sea with your horses the surging of mighty waters. I hear, and my body trembles. My lips quiver at the sound. Rottenness enters into my bones. My legs tremble beneath me. Yet I will quietly wait. For the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us. Though the fig tree should not blossom Nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail, and the fields yield no food, the flock be cut off from the field. And there be no herd in the stalls. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will take joy in the God of my salvation, God the Lord. is my strength. He makes my feet like the deers. He makes me tread on my high places. Habakkuk is a very unique and powerful short book among the minor prophets in that The bulk of Habakkuk deals with Habakkuk's complaining to God about the unfairness of seeing God's people trampled on by those who are more wicked than they are. Yes, God's people are guilty. Yes, God's people have broken God's law and have committed idolatry, and certainly they do deserve to be justly chastised by God. But the instruments that God uses to chastise his people are people who are more wicked than the people of God. When Habakkuk is making this complaint, it's likely after a long period of Assyrian oppression of Judah. We don't really know anything about Habakkuk. We don't know where he was prophesying, when he was prophesying. The one thing we know is that the Lord says he's about to raise up the Chaldeans. And so this is before the Babylonians have ascended as the world power. It could be that he then would be a contemporary of Isaiah. Or he could be one prophet who's kind of between Isaiah and Jeremiah, or even as a later prophet as a contemporary of Jeremiah and Ezekiel. And the Babylonian invasion comes very shortly after his prophecy. We don't know. But we do know it's before the Babylonian conquest, because that's a yet future thing that God gives him as an answer. But he is he's complaining. He's basically saying, Lord, your people have been oppressed, they've been downtrodden, they've been persecuted, they've been stomped into the ground by people more wicked than they are. When are you going to do something about it? That's essentially his complaint. And he knows that God is not a wrongdoer. But the Lord answers by basically saying there's something worse coming your way. If you think the Assyrians were bad. I'm going to discipline the Assyrians. I'm going to judge the Assyrians, but I'm going to do so by the Chaldeans. These are the Babylonians. They're a bitter and hasty nation. They are dreadful. They're fearsome. Their horses are swifter than leopards and more fierce than evening wolves. They are just an absolutely overwhelming horde. of conquerors. And they do indeed very quickly. Under Nebuchadnezzar, the Babylonian Empire conquers a very, very wide area. And They swallow up the Assyrian Empire. At kings they scoff, at rulers they laugh, they laugh at every fortress. So God comes back and says Or Habakkuk, sorry, Habakkuk comes back in verse 12 of chapter 1 and almost says, how is this an answer to my question, God? Are you not from everlasting, O Lord my God? We shall not die. On O Lord, you have ordained them as judgment, and you, O rock, have established them for reproof, you who are of purer eyes and to see evil, who cannot look at wrong. Why do you idly look at traitors and remain silent when the wicked swallows up the man more righteous than he? It's almost like Habakkuk very respectfully and very worshipfully, because he is a true believer, but it's almost as if Habakkuk is asking God, did you not hear the substance of my complaint? You are pure, you are holy, you are just. We have a people, the Assyrians, who are trampling on a people who are more righteous than they, the Judeans. Yes, we're sinful, but we're more righteous than the Assyrians. And what you're telling me is that someone worse is coming? He confesses that the Lord rules over all the nations of the earth. You make mankind like the fish of the sea, like crawling things that have no ruler. In other words, God is absolutely sovereign. And so why is he doing this? He's going to wait. And he's going to say, what is God going to answer me? And this is what God answers. This is what God answers. The essence of it becomes one of the most important verses in all of Scripture. Chapter 2, verse 4. His soul is puffed up, it is not right within him. But the righteous shall live by his faith. What does that mean Well, the Lord is working out his purposes in the world. And as the Lord is working out his purposes in the world, sometimes it certainly does look to us. Like evil is triumphing, like the righteous are being trampled, and we can have a really hard time reconciling this what Habakkuk's trying to reconcile. God is good, God is just, God is holy, God is sovereign, God is powerful, God is in control, then what gives? And what God says is, don't be proud. In pride, we might think that we can presume to know what God's purposes are. And we might even presume to be able to correct God. No Don't have a puffed up soul. That's not upright. The righteous shall live by his faith. In other words, the way to be right with God is to trust God. The way to be right before God is to trust God. God is going to punish all wickedness. As an example of this, when he's done using the Chaldeans as an instrument to punish the Assyrians. And the Judeans, he's then going to punish the Chaldeans. No one is ultimately going to escape God's justice. We need to trust him to work these things out in his wisdom. And so there's a fivefold woe against the Chaldeans because they're also going to be taken down. Idolatry, idol worship, that's not going to save you. If you do violence, if you do wickedness, God will judge you Don't mistake God using you and allowing you to prosper as his eternal blessing upon you and his favor shining on you. God will be just Because the Lord is in his holy temple. Great verse, chapter 2, verse 20. The Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silence before him. In the end, everyone will stand before God and be judged, and no one will be able to open their mouths to say anything against him. So this is the answer. Live by faith, not by proud presumption. Trust God that He will make everything right in the end. Be silent before him. And so Habakkuk worships. That's the right response The right response is not, oh, I figured it out now. I know what God's doing. Here it is, A, B, C, D. No. He worships. He worships. I've heard the report of you, and your work do I fear. In the midst of the years, revive it. In the midst of the years, make it known. In wrath, remember mercy. He worships the Lord, he calls upon the Lord. He He extols the greatness of the Lord and then he sings at the end this beautiful final joy. What does he say at the end of his prayer? I hear and my body trembles, my lips quiver at the sound, rottenness enters into my bones, my legs tremble beneath me, yet I will quietly wait. For the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to quietly wait. He's complained twice. Now he's going to quietly wait. And I love, love, love the closing hymn. Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit beyond the vines. The produce of the olive fail, and the fields yield no food. The flock be cut off from the fold, and there be no herd in the stalls Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will take joy in the God of my salvation. God, the Lord, is my strength. He makes my feet like the deers. He makes me tread. on high places, on my high places. What does that mean? I don't love God for the earthly benefits he gives me. I'm not going to have a paganized relationship with God. See, pagans don't really love their gods that they worship. It's a transactional relationship. They sacrifice enough so that they get the benefits they want back from the God. And it's a business arrangement. Of course, it's all meaningless. God has said how empty and useless idols are. We cannot have the same kind of relationship with the one true God that pagans have with their idols. We're not in it. for the earthly material blessings that God may be pleased to give us. We're not in it for a bigger house, for a better paying job. We're not in it for a happy family. We're not in it for more psychological well-being and overall happiness and life satisfaction. We're not in it for any of that. We are going to rejoice in the Lord. We're going to take joy. In the God of our salvation. He has saved us. He has had mercy on us. And we will live before Him by faith. Worshiping Him by faith. Even when the cupboards are empty and the bank account is low and we can't see how the bills are going to get paid, we will worship and we will trust. That is faith. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are good. Your love endures forever. Your care for your people is wise and holy and right. We can't figure it out. Because it's way beyond us. You are way beyond us. We can't puff ourselves up with pride and think we can decode the ways of the Almighty God. May we worship in humility and give thanks with joy, even through tears, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for the book of Habakkuk. I hope that was an insightful analysis for you. A little bit long, but three chapters. So tomorrow we're going to be in 2 Peter, 2 Peter chapter 1. Hope you can join me for that. And I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.