Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I hope that you are doing well. We are in our 1071st day, together in God's Word, day 1071, and we're in the minor prophet of Haggai. Haggai chapters one and two today. This is not coffee. This is gingerbread tea with a little bit of Holiday nog, which is almond milk nog, because I can't do dairy. It's a very Christmassy festive type drink. Not very sweet, but it's got a little bit of gingerbread flavor, a little bit of eggnoggy flavor. Anyway. Let's uh let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and for the profits that we've been in for some time and for the way that they confront us with language that is dark and compelling and that is also gracious and wonderful. We pray that you'd speak to us today through the Prophet Haggai. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Haggai one and two. In the second year of Darius the king In the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet to Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah. And to Joshua, the son of Jehosedak, the high priest, thus says the Lord of hosts, These people say, The time has not yet come to rebuild the house of the Lord. Then the word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet. Is it a time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses while this house lies in ruined ruins? Now therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, consider your ways, you have sown much, and harvested little You eat, but you never have enough. You drink, but you never have your fill. You clothe yourselves, but no one is warm. And he who earns wages does so to put them into a bag with holes. Thus says the Lord of hosts. Consider your ways. Go up to the hills and bring wood and build the house that I may take pleasure in it, and that I may be glorified, says the Lord. You looked for much, and behold it came to little. And when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why? declares the Lord of hosts, because of my house that lies in ruins, while each of you busies himself with his own house. Therefore the heavens above you have withheld the dew, and the earth has withheld its produce, and I have called for a drought on the land and on the hills, on the grain. the new wine, the oil, and on what the ground brings forth on man and beast and all their labors. When's the Rubable the son of Shealtiel? And Joshua the son of Jehosadak the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, they obeyed the voice of the Lord their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as the Lord their God had sent him. And the people feared the Lord. Then Haggai, the messenger of the Lord, spoke to the people with the Lord's message, I am with you, declares the Lord. And the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, son of Jehosebak, the high priest. and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came and worked on the house of the Lord of hosts their God on the twenty-fourth day of the month, in the sixth month. In the second year of Darius the King. In the seventh month, on the twenty first day of the month, The word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet. Speak now to Zerubabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehosedak, the high priest, and to all the remnant of the people, and say Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? How do you see it now? Is it not as nothing in your eyes? Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, declares the Lord. Be strong, O Joshua, son of Jehosedak, the high priest. Be strong, O you people of the land, declares the Lord. Work! For I am with you, declares the Lord of hosts. According to the covenant that I made with you when you came out of Egypt, my spirit remains in your midst. Fear not For thus says the Lord of hosts, yet once more, in a little while, I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land, and I will shake all nations. so that the treasures of all nations shall come in, and I will fill this house with glory, says the Lord of hosts. The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, declares the Lord of hosts. The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, says the Lord of hosts, and in this place I will give peace, declares the Lord of hosts. On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month in the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came. By Haggai the prophet. Thus says the Lord of hosts: Ask the priests about the law. If someone carries holy meat in the fold of his garment and touches with his fold bread or stew or wine or any other kind of food, does it become holy? The priest answered and said, No. Then Haggai said, If someone who is unclean by contact with a dead body touches any of these, does it become unclean? The priest answered and said, It does become unclean. Then Haggai answered and said, So is it with this people and with this nation before me declares the Lord. and so with every work of their hands, and what they offer there is unclean. Now then consider from this day forward Before stone was placed upon stone in the temple of the Lord, how did you fare? When one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were but ten. When one came to the wine vat to draw fifty measures, there were but twenty. I struck you and all the products of your toil with blight and with mildew And with hail, yet you did not turn to me, declares the Lord. Consider from this day onward, from the twenty fourth day of the ninth month Since the day that the foundation of the Lord's temple was laid, consider, is the seed yet in the barn? Indeed, the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree have yielded nothing, but from this day on I will bless you. The word of the Lord came a second time to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I am about to shake the heavens and the earth, and to overthrow the throne of the kingdoms. I am about to destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations, and overthrow the chariots and their riders, and the horses and their riders shall go down, every one by the sword of his brother On that day, declares the Lord of hosts, I will take you, Ozarabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel, declares the Lord, and I will make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you declares the Lord of hosts. That is the book of the prophet Haggai Two chapters, and unique in a couple of different ways. One, we have very precise dates. So, for example, this begins in the second year of Darius the King, in the sixth month, on the first day of the month. Well, that's August 29th, 520 BC. Wait, wait, it's the first day of the month. How is it August 29th? Well, different calendar. The Jewish calendar was a lunar calendar. It's the day of a new moon festival. The first day of the month is always the day of a new moon. It's a day of public worship. It's also just past the anniversary of the destruction of the temple, which had been destroyed some 67 years prior, in 587. It's now 520. It's going to take a couple of years to finish the building of the temple, so the temple will be um will have been destroyed for 70 years, which is what the Lord said would happen. So we have precise dates. Even throughout each one of these oracles that come from Haggai, we have a precise date for it. The second thing that's that's unique about this book is that Haggai was a successful prophet. The people listened to him. They did what he said, and the Lord blessed them. Whoa! Where else do we have that among the prophets? That's like unheard of. How much would Jeremiah or Isaiah or Ezekiel love to have this ministry? You give a word and the people fear and the people obey? Wow. Well, that's not by accident, of course. The Lord is sovereignly in control of these things, but also It helps that the word of the Lord is coming from a prophet and is being addressed to Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah. Zerubbabel was a grandson of the last king of Judah. He was the grandson of Jehoiakim. He was heir to the Davidic throne and governor of Judah. So he's in the office of kingship. Although he's not allowed to have the title of king, 'cause they're under the Persian Empire. He's the governor and he's the he's of the line of David. And then you have Joshua, son of Jehosadak, the high priest. So you have prophet, priest, and king. Who are all faithful and godly. Remember we were in Zephaniah a couple days ago, and I pointed out to you that the prophets and the priests and the kings and the officials We're all corrupt and self-serving? Well, we have the opposite here. We have actually faithful prophet, faithful king, although he's called governor, but Zerobu was in that position, and a faithful high priest. Who, by the way, has the name Yeshua, the same name as the Lord Jesus. This form, um the earlier form of Joshua in the Hebrew, like you get Joshua in the Battle of Jericho, Joshua in the book of Joshua, that's Jehoshua. This is Yeshua, which is a shortened version of Joshua. We translate them both as Joshua, but it is actually the same as the name that's given. to Jesus. So it's pretty remarkable. And what is what is Haggai being told to tell the people? Well God is cursing them. in their produce and in their economy because they are neglecting building the house of the Lord so that they might have houses of paneled wood and might just live a life of comfort. In other words, they're choosing personal comfort personal security over the worship of God. That's the call. And I think that's one of the first applications we need to deal with right up front is When we choose personal pleasure, personal comfort, personal convenience over the church, the worship of God. That is not good. That is not pleasing in the sight of God, and that brings us God's discipline. How do we do this? Well, if you don't tithe at church, but you're saving money to go to Disney World on vacation. If you don't go to church because your kids are involved in youth sports and you have to be out of the field on Sunday morning when church is happening. If you neglect meeting the needs of God's people within the church because you'd rather spend that money to get a new car. We do the same thing. We build our paneled houses while the Lord's house remains in ruins. And very often we suffer for it, as God disciplines us. It's not right. We should prioritize the Lord's house, the Lord's worship, the Lord's people. Over our own personal comfort. But God saw that the hearts of the people were changed They actually responded with obedience. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerobu, verse 14, and the spirit of Joshua, son of Jehosedak, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people. So verse 14 tells us we need obedience, but God has to stir the hearts of the people to be obedient. So we need to pray. for the Holy Spirit to move in the hearts of his people to move us toward obedience. And then we need to respond to that call. The second Oracle we get is is given several months later. And um It is October 17th now. We were at August 29th. Now it's October 17th, the same year. It's the next to last day of the Feast of Tabernacles. Probably the Feast of Tabernacles was not as festive as it would have been because there were limited resources. Because while the people are beginning to obey, they haven't really finished obeying. And God is still judging them But God says, don't be discouraged. Don't be discouraged that you had sort of an underwhelming Feast of Tabernacles and you're looking at a sort of underwhelming temple compared to Solomon's temple. It's going to get better and it's going to get more glorious. Now we know in an earthly sense, when King Herod rebuilt the temple in the years before Jesus' ministry, the temple became under Herod the largest, most glorious, and most impressive version of the temple that it ever had been. But we know more importantly that the Lord Jesus, look at this in verse 9, in this place I will give peace. So when there's this glorious expansion of the temple, And the the wealth of the Romans was really invested in this thing. In this place I will give peace. The Prince of Peace comes to that temple. And he comes to bring peace, to make peace by the blood of his cross. Third oracle comes on the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month. And so we're a couple months later, so it's like December now, uh December 18th, 520. It's the three-month anniversary since the beginning of the work of renewal. And it comes at a time when people are sowing seed, and they might wonder, hmm, can we sow the seed and expect a harvest? Well, even though the people are defiled, Because they're unclean in their thoughts and in their actions. God is going to bless them from this time on. I want to say one more thing about this defilement of the people, though. According to the law, and as it's unfolded here in Haggai, something that is unclean doesn't become clean because it comes into contact with something that is clean. If you've got an unclean thing and a clean thing and they come into contact, the uncleanness spreads onto the clean, not the reverse, until Jesus comes. Jesus comes into the world and he intentionally seeks out and touches every category of unclean person. A woman with an issue of blood, a dead body, someone with leprosy, someone who's lame. These are categories of the unclean. And Jesus touches all of them. And they don't make him unclean. He has such powerful cleanliness, cleaning power, that he makes them clean and holy, all of them. That's the power of Jesus. And it's pictured here by the opposite here. So it's the contrast that sort of sets up for Jesus. And the last thing we have is this wonderful sign that Zerubbabel is going to be a signet ring. And I think ultimately where this is fulfilled is that Zerubbabel is a direct ancestor of Jesus. Go look at Matthew chapter one. Zerubabel is within the royal line of David, but then he's also within the royal line of King Jesus. And so Zerabbabel becomes a signet ring. He's never the king. But from his line comes the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, who shakes the heavens and the earth, and who will overthrow all kingdoms and reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords forever. He is the Son of David and the Son of Servable. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your promises that are true. Thank you for Jesus who makes us clean. May we live as your holy people, obedient to you in every aspect of our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for the Book of Haggai. Tomorrow we're going to go back to 2 Peter and pick up with 2 Peter chapter 3. Have a blessed day in the Lord.