Good morning and welcome to our Advent Devotionals for 2025. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill. Presbyterian Church. This is our next to last Advent Devotional, and we're covering today Hark the Herald Angels Sing, one of the most theologically rich Christmas carols written by Charles Wesley. Initially in 1739, and then it was edited slightly by George Whitfield in 1753, but it really became popular. After it was paired with different music, more upbeat music, from Felix Mendelssohn in 1840. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gifts of Christmas carols that you've given to your church over the years from a variety of different places. We thank you for this time that we have together this morning to study, Hark the Herald Angel Sing, and to rejoice in the coming of your Son into the world. We pray that you would help us to focus on your word and on your word. on your Son and on your glory and your gift this Christmas season and always we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Hark the Herald Angels sing the scripture we're looking at, because it's a very theologically dense Christmas. Carol that tells us so much about Jesus, we're going to go to a very wonderfully rich, theologically rich passage in the New Testament, Colossians 1, 15 to 20, that tells us all about Christ. Who is Christ? He is the image. of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things Things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things fold together. And he is the head of the body, the church, he is the beginning, the first. Born from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. For in him the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. Wow, that's who Jesus is. This speaks about Jesus' humanity, the man Christ Jesus, as well as his divinity. It speaks of who he is from eternity past. It speaks of who he is cosmically. It speaks of who he was incarnationally in his human life and what he did. Jesus is the image of the invisible God. Now human beings are made in God's image. But of course, the first humans, Adam and Eve, fell. They rebelled against God And so the image of God in human beings has been marred ever since, twisted, and cursed and broken by the fall. Jesus is the perfect image of the invisible God He's the firstborn of all creation. That doesn't mean God created him. He was begotten, eternally begotten, not made. But he's the firstborn of all creation is a position of title. It says that he's the ruler of all creation. He has the rights of firstborn, which is the rights of inheritance and the rights of rule over all creation. And that tells us why. Why does he have this right of creation And there's really two reasons why. And you see it with the two fours, the four in verse 16 and the four in verse 19. And the four in verse 16 begins who Jesus is cosmically. enthroned in the heavens, right? Reigning in heaven. And verse nineteen really begins uh who he is incarnationally. Although there's some overlap here. But he's the firstborn of all creation. That means he he has the right of the heir and the ruler over all creation, heaven and earth. Why? Well, first of all, for or because by him all things were created. In heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him Jesus is the creator God. When God spoke in the beginning in creation and said, let there be light, Jesus is the Word of God. He's the eternal Word of God that God spoke. He's the agent of creation. And, verse 17 tells us a second reason, he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. So not only is he the agent of creation, but he's the one who holds all things together. He is he's the glue of the universe, of reality. And a third reason, verse 18, he's the head of the body of the church. He's the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be permanent. What does this mean? Well, as as a man, Christ Jesus He rose again from the dead with a glorious, transformed resurrection body, the firstborn from the dead, the one whose resurrection secures everyone's resurrection. And the head of the church. As the resurrected one, he's the head of the church. He's the new Adam. He's the new head of a new humanity. He's the head of his Body, the body, the church And then another four in verse 19, which leads us to our fourth reason really here. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, the incarnation. This is where we get to incarnational reality, where it's the second four there, because the first three fours are all things that are true in the cosmos, with Jesus in in glory, in the heavenly realms, I guess you could say. And here, what did he do on earth? First of all, incarnation. In him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. Jesus is the God-man, God-made flesh And then not only that, but through him to reconcile all things to himself. That is, through Jesus, the incarnate God, God reconciles all things to himself. Things on earth and things in heaven. How? By making peace by the blood of his cross. Jesus' incarnation. had the purpose of going to the cross to be the reconciling one, the one who reconciles all things back to God. So that's who Jesus is. He is awesome. He is wonderful beyond language to really tell, but this is a wonderfully powerful passage it tells us about his position. His creation, his sustaining of creation, his rising again from the dead, his becoming incarnate. His reconciling of all things. They're all there. And actually they're all there in Hark the Herald Angel's thing as well. Mark the Herald Angel Sing was written by Charles Wesley, one of the most prolific hymn writers in the history of the church. Great hymn writer, wrote probably what is my favorite hymn and can it be, along with many others that have been greatly loved throughout the centuries. In 1739 he writes a Christmas hymn. And it's titled, Heart How All the Welkin Rings. And he's got ten verses to this Christmas hymn. The welkin is an older English word for the heavens. So hark how all the heavens ring, right, at the birth of Christ. So this word for sky or heavens is like the heavens are ringing. But of course, what were they ringing with? They were ringing with the voice of the angels saying, Glory to God in the highest. So In 1753, after this had been around for a while, about almost fifteen years, and hadn't really gained much traction, George Whitfield is like, you know, that welcome thing, that's not really the hip to do language of today, uh something like that. And so he changed the opening line to Hark the Herald Angels thing. Focusing on the angels and their announcement because that's what made the heavens or the sky ring. Still wasn't a really popular Christmas carol until the music got changed. Because initially Charles Wesley wanted this ten-verse hymn to be to very somber, sober, serious music. But in 1840 Felix Mendelssohn wrote a very stirring and upbeat piece of music, and someone paired Mendelssohn's music to Wesley's words. And we cut it back from ten stanzas to the the three that we most commonly sing today. And ever since then it has been a wonderfully beloved and often sung classic Christmas carol for the church. And here are the three stanzas of this poem that we still sing today. Hark the Herald angel sing, glory to the newborn king. Peace on earth and mercy mild, God and sinners reconciled. Joyful, all ye nations, rise, join the triumph of the skies. With the angelic host proclaim, Christ is born in Bethlehem. Hark the herald angels sing, glory to the newborn king. So you can hear the echo of the welcome there with the line of join the triumph of the skies with the angelic host proclaimed Christ is born in Bethlehem. But we get some great theology. in the second and third verses that tell us more about Christ. Christ by highest heaven adored, Christ the everlasting Lord. Late in time, behold him come, offspring of the Virgin's womb. Veiled in flesh, the Godhead see, hail the incarnate deity, pleased as man with men to dwell, Jesus our Emmanuel. Hail the heaven-born Prince of Peace. Hail the Son of Righteousness. Light and life to all he brings, risen with healing. in his wings. Mild he lays his glory by, born that man no more may die, born to raise the sons of earth, born to give them second birth. So we have so much here about who Christ is. He's adored by the heavens. He's the everlasting Lord. He's the eternal God, really. He comes in time as the Godhead in flesh. The incarnate deity. He's a man who's dwelling with man. He's Jesus. He's our Emmanuel. He's our God with us. He's the heaven-born prince of peace. He's the Son of righteousness. And he rises. There's a resurrection. He rises With healing in his wings, he brings light and life to everyone. And so this is the Christ we worship at Christmas time and always. Let's pray. Father, thank you for sending your Son, our Savior, to deliver us from sin and death forever. We have every reason to rejoice in this life and for eternity, because you sent your son to be our Savior, and we are so. Thankful. Lord God, be with us. Help us to worship you this Christmas season and every day of our lives. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, let's hear now from our own Forest Hill worship team, Hark the Herald Angels Sing. The new boy team honor and thirty miles. God empty word, joy all he can die, join us dry and die, give and gather. I didn't born by the hell they don't think for me to Everlasting for before him. Help in Western God entire, Heleg, see the man with the Jesus. When you have I only built for each point I am right to all be bringing with healing in my healing. Why do we give a second bird? Harold Angel Seal, glory to the new glory, like the hero angels me, glory to the new glory.