Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals from Guilt Through Grace to Gratitude. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you could join us as we begin our third week together. We're going to be looking at the fifth question of the Heidelberg Catechism today as we're still dealing with establishing our guilt before a holy God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gift of the Heidelberg Catechism. For almost 500 years, it has been an invaluable tool, translated into so many different languages, it has helped your church. in so many different ways. It helps us to grasp the gospel so that we can have sure and strong gospel comfort. So we pray that you would give us comfort from your word and from your gospel today. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right. We are on question number five today, but we're going to look back on question number four because question number five really follows after four and it kind of doesn't make a lot of sense all by itself. You'll see that in a minute. Question four, we looked at on Friday. What does the law require of us? Christ teaches us in some, Matthew 22, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments So we talked about this on Friday. The law of God, in summary, is the law of love. We are called to love God and we're called to love our neighbor. That's very reasonable and flows out of the very character of who God is, because God is love And so we are to love him and we are to love our neighbors. But today we get to question number five, and we ask, can you keep all this perfectly? And the answer is no. I am inclined by nature to hate God and my neighbor. Whew! That sounds really strong. I mean, if you were to walk up to the average person on the street and you were to say, hey Do you hate God and hate your neighbor? They would probably say, what are you talking about? No way. I believe in God. I'm not super religious or whatever, but yeah, I believe in God and you know I get along all right with people. But the gospel tells us the truth. The word of God tells us the truth, and that is the one true God, the God who is revealed in Scripture, the God who is. People by nature hate the one true God, and we also hate one another. We use people, we lie about people, we gossip about people, we slander people, we covet what people have because it all arises. from a heart of hatred. So let's see what Scripture says. This is what the catechism says. It comes from Scripture. Here's what Scripture says. Before and after the flood, going back to the beginning, Genesis chapters six through nine tell us the story of the flood. And right before the flood, in Genesis 6, verses 5 through 8, this is what we read. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And the Lord regretted that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart. So the Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created. from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them. But Noah found favor or grace in the eyes of the Lord. So this is the assessment of humanity by God before the flood. The wickedness of man is great in the earth, every intention of the thoughts of his heart is only evil continually Well, did the flood solve that problem? I mean God sent a flood and he wiped out everybody in the world except for eight people. Was it all better after the flood? Well, fast forward a couple of chapters and this is what we read after the flood Then Noah built an altar to the Lord, and took some of every clean animal and some of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the animal. And when the Lord smelled the pleasing aroma, the Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground because of man. Hey, this looks pretty good so far. We've got Noah, he's a righteous man, he's found favor in the eyes of the Lord. He comes off the ark, he builds an altar, he offers to the Lord. Seems like things are great, right? Hmm We've got to keep reading. I will never again curse the ground because of man, for the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth. Human nature didn't change because of the flood. Fast forward, a couple thousand years, few thousand years, we come to Romans chapter 1. And this is Paul's summary assessment of why people deserve the wrath of God. He says, since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. We see this in the world, don't we? And I could say in our culture, but it's not just our culture. People who are boastful, people who slander others, people who are insolent, people who are haughty, people who are disobedient, a rebel. We we love those kind of people. They get praised, even though they're self-destructive and they hurt other people, people who curse God. People who mock God become superstar celebrities and are given huge platforms to perform on because in our hearts we resent God And we don't want to love other people either. We only want to serve ourselves. And that's not the end of the story either. A couple chapters later in Romans, as Paul wraps up the opening of Romans, which is all about how guilty we are. He says, no one is righteous, no not one. No one understands, no one seeks for God. All have turned aside Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave, they use their tongues to deceive the venom of asps is under their lips, their mouth is full of curses and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, in their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God. before their eyes. You see it opens and closes with not loving God, hating God. No one seeks for God. There is no fear of God before their eyes. And in between you see all the ways that people hurt one another, with lies With violence, with destructive behavior. It's terrible, but it's honest. And it's God's assessment of human nature. Including our human nature. Don't just think, oh, that's all those bad people out there in the world. This is our human nature too. If God had not had mercy on us, if God had not changed our hearts by his Holy Spirit, if God had not brought us to faith in Jesus Christ, this is who we are in and of ourselves. It's a sobering assessment, but it brings us back to our catechism question, and we see that it's 100% accurate. Can you keep all this law of love perfectly? No, I am inclined by nature to hate God and my neighbor. Now that tells me that if there's going to be any hope for us, it's going to have to come from outside of us. There's a lot of people who teach you that if you're going to have any hope, if you're going to have any comfort, if you're going to have any peace, you have to bring it out from within yourself. But if I'm the problem, I can't be the solution. And if there's going to be hope and eternal comfort, it can't come from me if I am inclined by nature to hate God and my neighbor. I need a Savior. I need a change that comes from outside of myself. Let's pray. Oh gracious Heavenly Father, you look upon us in this natural condition, and you love us anyway. Because you are love. And you rescue us from ourselves because you are the deliverer and the redeemer We thank you. Help us to remember always who we would be by nature, so that we would not have a haughty spirit. toward the world. We would not look at the world and say, oh, we're so much better than they are. We're better off. We're favored. We're blessed. But the same grace that saved us can save them too. We need you. The world needs you. Have mercy on us, O God, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again as we are continuing to walk through the Heidelberg Catechism together. And now as always, we'll respond to the Lord in worship. Come thou fountain every bless to my heart to see light. Streams of mercy never ceasing. Call for songs of the loudest praise. Teach me some mercy. Praise the mountain, fixed upon it, Mount of Thyre. Here I raise my Ever needs her here by thy great help I've come And thy home but thy good pleasure safely too Jesus saw me in a stranger wandering from the fold of God he to that Rescue me from danger, interposed his precious blood. Oh thy day, free from sin, I shall see thy sake. Blood washing, how else can I wonders grace? Come my Lord no longer tell me. Take my soul away, send thy angels now to carry me to round up in the day. Oh too great now, great dead. Maybe I'm constantly that I could like my wondering heart in the From to what I feel from to we know God I know is my heart taken Hear it, see it for thy courts above.