Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is the fourth day of our 37th week together here, and we are at the end of John 15 and the beginning of John 16. Looking at the hatred of the world, you see that header up on your screen. So why does the world persecute Christians? That's what we're going to consider today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. Your word is such a blessing to us. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts. That you would help us to glorify you. That you would help us to know Jesus better and follow him better. This is your work in us, so we ask you to do it in Jesus' name. Amen. John 15, 18. If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own, but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you Remember the word that I said to you. A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But all these things They will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me. If I had not come and spoken to them they would not have been guilty of sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin. Whoever hates me hates my father also. If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin. But now they have seen and hated both me and my Father But the word that is written in their law must be fulfilled. They hated me without cause. But when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of Truth who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me. And you also will bear witness because you have been with me from the beginning. I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away. They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God. And they will do these things because they have not known the Father nor me But I have sent these things to you, that when their hour comes, you may remember that I told them to you. So, why does the world persecute Christians? In America in recent years, we've seen sort of a rising hostility toward biblical Christianity. Uh there was a football coach in Washington State who was who was fired from his position because he prayed quietly after games. There have been Christian teachers and medical professionals who have faced lawsuits or disciplinary actions for refusing to affirm gender identities that contradicted biological reality. In the state of California I know some Christian counselors who cannot become certified counselors in the state of California because they will not affirm the LGBTQ propaganda that goes against biblical revelation and also reality of biology. And so the the world is is just saying, we don't have a place for you. You know, we you might get deplatformed, you might get censored, you might get removed from social media if you say the wrong thing or offend the wrong people. And it is does particularly seem to be Christians who are targeted for these things. Some of these same beliefs are held by Muslims, are held by conservative Jews, and they don't seem to be targeted in the same way that professing Christians are targeted. So why? You know, what gives? Well, Jesus tells us exactly what gives. He told us to expect that the world would hate us. And he really gives us three reasons. First is the world hates us because it hates Jesus. It hated Jesus first. Jesus came into the world. He loved everybody. He spoke the truth in love. He confronted those in power who were corrupt. He healed the sick. He fed the thousands. He raised the dead. He did wondrous things that no one before or since has ever done, and the world responded by shouting, Crucify Him Because they could not control him. He would not serve their agenda. He would not go along with the party line. That's the first reason. The world hates Christians because it hates Jesus. The second Jesus says in verse 19, If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own, but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you, the less worldly we are. the more the world will hate us. Now some Christians have mistaken this. I'm gonna go out on the limb here a little bit. Some Christians have mistaken this And they've said, well, there's two sides fighting each other within our culture. If I join the one side, at least I'll have power and might on my side for the fight against those who hate us. That is really a different form of worldliness. You're still going to be hated, but you're not really hated in that case for being a Christian and for the sake of Christ. You're hated because you've chosen a side in a culture war. I don't believe it is the place of the church to enroll in service to a side in a culture war or to engage in a culture war. Jesus didn't come in and start a political campaign. The apostles didn't launch political campaigns. They didn't join existing political parties and campaign against other parties. They didn't seek worldly power. In fact, Jesus explicitly said That we're not to seek worldly power. My kingdom is not of this world, Jesus said. And so that's Sometimes we think that the solution for this is to just adopt a form of worldliness that would at least give us a tribe or a clan that has power within the world that we can then use to fight our enemies. But we're not to fight our enemies, we're to love our enemies. So if you really are hated for the sake of Christ, you're hated because you're not of the world. You don't fall in line You don't pick up the cause. You don't pick up the sword. You don't attack. You don't join the fight. But you stand apart and you speak the truth for King Jesus. The third thing that Jesus says is that the reason why the world hates us is because they don't know him who sent Jesus. They don't know God the Father. They don't know God ultimately. If they had known God The Father. They would have known the Son, because the Son and the Father are one, and the Son is the full revelation of the Father. So, the world hates us because it hated Jesus and nailed him to a cross. We are not of the world, but we have been chosen out of the world. And the world doesn't know God. So what can we do about it? Well, two things should encourage us to stay faithful. One thing should encourage us to stay faithful, and one person will empower us to stay faithful. I'll put it that way, two things here. One to encourage us to stay faithful is the truth that the hatred of the world is temporary. Like all problems that a Christian faces in this life, it's temporary. King Jesus is reigning now over heaven and earth He will continue to reign until he has put all enemies under his feet, 1 Corinthians 15 says. He will come again in glory. He will take us into the new heavens and the new earth, and there will be no more sin, which includes there will be no more hatred from the world, because the world will be made new into the kingdom of glory. To empower us to be faithful, we have the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit empowers us to speak the truth in love and comforts us and strengthens us in the time of persecution. So the world hates us because it hate hated Jesus We don't belong to the world and the world doesn't know God. But in the midst of the world's hatred, don't give in and become worldly Stay faithful to being an ambassador for Christ, speaking the truth in love, proclaiming the kingdom of God. Do so knowing that all the persecution is temporary and that the Holy Spirit is with us and helping us in it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your Son, Jesus Christ. Thank you for sending your Holy Spirit to live within us. Help us to be faithful to King Jesus, to speak the truth in love. to be right ambassadors for Christ to a world that needs to hear the gospel but doesn't want to hear the gospel. Empower us. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me. We're going to continue in John sixteen tomorrow. I hope you can join me for that, Lord willing. Have a blessed day in the Lord.