Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So the final day of week 26, we come to the end of Luke 14 today. We're going to be looking at verses 25 to 35 and asking a very challenging question. Why would Jesus tell us to hate our families? Hmm. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and for your word and for your presence in our lives. Father, help us to respond to your truth and to walk in it by faith for your glory in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 14, 25 to 35. Now, great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them, If anyone comes to me, and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life. He cannot be my disciple Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me, cannot be my disciple. For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it? Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war, will not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand. And if not, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace. So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. Salt is good, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored It is of no use either for the soil or for the manure pile. It is thrown away. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. The difference between the Jesus of pop culture and the Jesus of the Bible is striking and often downright shocking The Jesus of pop culture is a king of tolerance, a long-haired, peace-loving hippie who would never hurt or offend anyone. The Jesus of the Bible is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. His love is stronger and more compelling. His power is more absolute. His call more demanding than our culture could ever truly understand. In today's passage, we find perhaps the most shocking of Jesus' teachings. If you don't hate your own family, you cannot be his disciples. What does this mean? Well, in the context of Luke 14, Jesus is talking about the cost of being his disciples and the excuses that people make for not following him. Truly following Jesus in this world is hard. The world does not understand, love, respect, or highly esteem Jesus or his followers. Not really. They may offer lip service to Jesus, but when they do, it's a Jesus of their own imagination, their own creation, one made in their image, who endorses their priorities, values, and agenda, their own personal Jesus. The real God of the universe and Lord of glory is too much of a threat. So what do you do when following Jesus would mean losing your family? What do you do if your family has said they would disown you if you follow Jesus? You have to choose who is more important to you. Will you reject eternal life? And deny the Lord, who died to redeem you, just to stay in good favor with your parents or your spouse or your children? No. Not if you truly know Jesus. No one could ever outrank him. He alone must have your highest and strongest loyalty. What Jesus says in verses 27 to 33 supports this interpretation of verse 26. He's talking about counting the cost. and being willing to renounce all to follow him. Nothing is worth more than eternal life, and no one is more precious to the believer than Jesus. He has laid down everything for us Even his own life in horrible agony. So how can we respond to such love with half-hearted, lukewarm devotion? Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 126. When the Lord restored the fortunes of Zion, we were like those who dream. Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy. Then they said among the nations, The Lord has done great things for them. The Lord has done great things for us. We are glad. Restore our fortunes, O Lord, like streams in the Negev. Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy. He who goes out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come home with shouts of joy, bringing his sheaves with him. Streams in the Negev. The Negev is the very dry southern part of Israel. But when seasonal rains come Some of these dry valleys become quickly become streambeds and rushing streams of water that then brings life to the dry desert area. That's what we want the Lord to do for our souls Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you have been so good to us in Jesus. When we count the cost, we realize that anything we would lose in this world is just not worth comparing to what we gain in Christ. Freely, graciously given to us. And so Lord help us to just let go of the things of the world, to just let go. of our pride and our possessions and our positions, the acceptance of others, the praise of men that we so easily live for and long for, help us to let those things go. Restore our souls like streams in the Negev. Bring forth life and joy and bounty and blessing. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining us again, for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope you're able to get out to worship this Lord today, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.