Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is good to be with you for day two of week five. We're here in Matthew chapter 10, verses 1 to 15. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please speak to us through your word. Please show us Jesus more clearly and your will for our lives that we might walk with Jesus by faith, trusting in him in our lives day by day. We pray this in Jesus' name and for his glory in our lives. Amen Matthew 10, 1-15, we're asking the question, have you been called and sent by Jesus? And he called to him his twelve disciples, and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, to heal every disease and every affliction The names of the twelve apostles are these, first Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother. Philip and Bartholomew, Thomas and Matthew the tax collector, James the son of Alphaeus and Thaddeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him These twelve Jesus sent out, instructing them, go nowhere among the Gentiles, and enter no town of the Samaritans, but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel and proclaim as you go, saying, The kingdom of God is at hand. Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without pain Give without pay. Acquire no silver or gold or copper for your belts, no bag for your journey, or two tunics, or sandals, or a staff, for the laborer deserves his food. And whatever town or village you enter, find out who is worthy in it, and stay there until you depart. As you enter the house, greet it. And if the house is worthy Let your pray peace come upon it. But if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you. And if any one will not receive you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from your feet when you leave that house or town Truly I say to you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for that land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that town. Well, when Jesus picked his twelve disciples, he commissioned them with his own authority and sent them out to proclaim and demonstrate the kingdom of God. While the Twelve Disciples had unique authority and supernatural power, the pattern of being called and sent by Jesus remains the same for every believer. First, we must first be following Jesus before we can go out and tell others about him. When Jesus calls you to follow him, he invites you into his council. shares his wisdom and his kingdom plan with you in his word, the Bible. He calls you to learn his ways, understand his gospel, grow in your relationship with him, and then take his kingdom to others around you. Second, when we go in his name, we must both speak the gospel and demonstrate the love of Jesus When these disciples went to the towns and villages in Israel, they came with both the message and the powerful demonstration of the kingdom. They didn't just tell people that the kingdom of heaven was at hand. hand, they showed the truth and power of the kingdom through their actions. Too often when Christians engage in missions work, We either speak without showing love, or we engage in social development programs without clearly presenting the gospel. Jesus made the mission priorities for his church very clear. Proclaim the gospel of the kingdom first and follow your proclamation with a clear demonstration of the powerful love of God. And third, we must not take rejection by the world personally, but trust Jesus for the final outcome The world rejected Jesus and his apostles, so we shouldn't be surprised when they reject us too. We speak the gospel clearly enough, we can almost guarantee that the gospel will be rejected by many, many people in the world, even as others come to believe in Christ through the proclamation of that gospel. Because either God's going to change people's hearts, or they will face his judgment But either way, the final outcome is out of our hands. Our call is very clear. We're called to be faithful witnesses, not final judges. Well, let's jump to Psalm 22. This is a wonderful Psalm of the cross. Reminds us of what Jesus paid for us and for our salvation. So let's read this together, and then we'll close in prayer. Psalm 22, to the choir master, according to the dough of the dawn, a psalm of David. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning? O my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer And by night, but I find no rest. Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel. In you our fathers trusted, they trusted, and you delivered them To you they cried and were rescued. In you they trusted and were not put to shame. But I am a worm and not a man. Scorned by mankind and despised by the people, all who see me mock me. They make mouths at me. They wag their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, for he delights in him. Yet you are he who took me from the womb. You made me trust you at my mother's breasts. Upon you I was cast from my birth and from my mother's womb you have been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help. Many bulls encompass me Strong bulls of Vation surround me. They open wide their mouths at me like a ravening and roaring lion. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted within my breast. My strength is dried up like a pot shirt, and my tongue sticks to my jaws. You lay me in the dust of death For dogs encompass me. A company of evildoers encircles me. They have pierced my hands and feet. I can count all my bones. They stare and gloat over me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots but you O Lord do not be far off O you my help come quickly to my aid deliver my soul from the sword my precious life from the power of the dog Save me from the mouth of the lion. You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen. I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will praise you. You who fear the Lord, praise him. All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, and he has not hidden his face from him But has heard when he cried to him. From you comes my praise in the great congregation, my vows I will perform before those who fear him The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied. Those who seek him shall praise the Lord. May your hearts live forever All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations shall worship before you for kingship belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations. All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship. Before him shall bow all who go down to the dust Even the one who could not keep himself alive, posterity, shall serve him. It shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation. They shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn That he has done it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father There is no one like you. You've given your son. Lord Jesus, we read here in Psalm 22 so clearly, so powerfully. what you suffered for us and for our salvation, but also how you triumphed over death. Lord Jesus, thank you for saving us. Father, thank you for giving your son for our salvation. Psalm 22 tells us very clearly that all the ends of the earth will hear. All the nations will come. How will they hear? How will they come? It's only as we take the gospel to them. You work through your body. You work through those you send. So send us. Use us. Spread your gospel. Glorify your name. When we consider how much you suffered, Lord Jesus, the little bit of suffering we may have to endure is only light It's so little compared to what you suffered to save us. Give us courage, give us conviction, give us wisdom, give us faithfulness. And may you be glorified as you send us out into the world to bear witness to you. We pray this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today on Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We'll be back again tomorrow, Lord willing. Have a blessed day in the Lord.