Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor J and Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you for our second day of week thirty-two. We're in John chapter three. And John chapter three, we covered kind of the famous part of the chapter yesterday. when Jesus talks about being born again. Here we're going to be in the s second part, the last half of John 3, focusing on John the Baptist and the transition from the ministry of John the Baptist. the Baptist in the ministry of Jesus. And so we're asking this question, why did John the Baptist say he must increase, but I must decrease? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please take your word and write it on our hearts because we need to hear from you. We're thankful for you. We're so thankful for your son. And we want to know Jesus better and we want to walk more closely with him. So teach us and guide us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. John 3, 22 to 36. After this, Jesus and his disciples went into the Judean countryside, and he remained there with them and was baptizing. John also was baptizing at Inon near Salim, because water was plentiful there, and people were coming and being baptized, for John had not yet been put into prison. Now a discussion arose between some of John's disciples and a Jew over purification. And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, He who is with you across the Jordan, to whom you bore witness, look, he is baptizing, and all are going to him. John answered, A person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven. Heaven. You yourselves bear me witness that I said I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him. The one who has the bride is the bridegroom. The friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore this joy of mine is now complete. He must increase, but I must decrease He who comes from heaven or from above all is above all. He who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way. He who comes from heaven is above all. He bears witness to what he has seen and heard, yet no one receives his testimony. Whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this, that God is true. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into His hand. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. So John the Baptist says, He must increase, but I must decrease. Here we have an extended insight into the life and ministry of John the Baptist. And so as usual, John's gospel is giving us lots of material. The other gospels talk about John the Baptist, talk about how he baptized Jesus, talk about how, you know, he even said to Jesus, I'm not worthy to stoop down and untie your sandals. I should be baptized by you, why are you coming to me and baptizing me? All of that we find in the other gospels, but we don't find this this extended explanation by John the Baptist of how much greater Jesus is. One possible explanation for the need for this kind of material Is that by the middle of the first century, there was a John the Baptist cult among Jewish people living in and around Israel, and they believed that John was the Messiah. and that he was the Lord's final messenger to his people. That's why uh earlier we heard John say that he's not the Christ. Because John the evangelist, as the gospel writer is called called, i i is wanting to peop wanting people to be set free from this from this cult, from this misunderstanding. He didn't want the Christian people who were kind of feeling pressure for believing in Jesus and who were maybe tempted to slide back into a more Jewish way of living. One one of the options for them, like you could be Christian, you could be believing in Jesus as the Son of God, you could be Jewish and sort of be in the synagogue. But if but if you if you l like Jesus and you like John the Baptist, you could sort of get in this halfway house, this sort of midway point, and be part of this John the Baptist cult. And so it's clear that that John the Evangelist is is one who makes sure people don't fall into that trap. Because it's an error. It leads them away from Christ. Whereas John the Baptist himself was pointing people to Christ. And so the last thing that John the Baptist would want. is for people to be worshiping him or proclaiming him as the Messiah rather than going to the one that he himself was pointing to. I think about this sometimes when I think about how some people highly venerate Mary. And have statues to Mary and they say prayers to Mary, and I think that's the last thing Mary would want. Mary would want people to be worshiping Jesus. Because that's who Mary knew was her Savior as well. And so this is sort of John the Evangelist answering back and saying, look, don't get caught up in this John the Baptist So this whole conversation today uh in this passage begins with what looks like an attempt to provoke John the Baptist So there was some sort of dispute over purification, and the guy disputing with John says, Hey, Rabbi He who was with you across the Jordan, to whom you bore witness, look, he's baptizing, and all are going to him. Kind of needling John, expecting to get a rise out of John, expecting John to say, Well, you know, I'm still very important. You know, that doesn't mean But John doesn't doesn't take the bait. That's perhaps a good lesson for us. Don't take the bait when people are needling you, right? In fact, he rejoices. He rejoices that Jesus is growing in his ministry. He says a person can't receive even one thing unless it's given information. Heaven. You yourself bore witness that I said I'm not the Christ, but I've been sent before him. This joy of mine is complete, he says. And then he says, I must I'm sorry, he must increase, and I must So far from being jealous of the rising popularity of Jesus, John has taken the time to explain why this brings him great joy. The friend of the bridegroom is who John the Baptist is in this explanation. He's the best man What would you say if you went to a wedding and the best man gave a toast that was all about himself and pointing people's attention to himself and nothing about the bride and groom? The best man's role in the wedding is to highlight the groom and his lovely bride, not himself. He might tell some stories about times that he spent with the groom, but the point of those stories, if he's a good best man, is to magnify. The groom. The mindset of John the Baptist is: I came here to point people to Jesus. Now that people are going over to Jesus, my job is finished. That's why he says he must increase, but I must decrease, because I've done my job. People are going to him. I'm happy about that. We all need to have the mindset of John the Baptist. The point of our lives as Christians, the point of our lives as disciples of Jesus. is that we want to point people to Jesus. It's vital that people see Jesus clearly and come to believe in him for salvation. We're not that important, not compared to Jesus. So whether or not people like us, whether or not people applaud us, whether or not people come to us is not that important. What's important is that they they love Jesus. We need to focus our energy, our conversation on making much of Jesus. We don't have the same forerunner role that John the Baptist had, but we need to have that same attitude. He must increase. I must decrease because he's the Savior, not me. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for such a wonderful Savior. He is Lord of all. He is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, exalted at your right hand, on majesty on high. There is no one above him, no one beside him. Thank you, Father, for sure. May we point people to Jesus with our words and our actions. May we rejoice when people grow in their love for Jesus, even if that leads them away from us in some way. Because it's not about us, it's about Christ. So it's in his name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again as we're going through the Gospel of John. We'll be on to chapter 4 tomorrow. I hope you can join me for that. And I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.