We've got this contrast here between the city of man, the city of the world. Which is fading, as we sang, fading is the worldling's pleasure, all his boasted pomp and show. And then the eternal security that is for the people of God in the city of God. So, Isaiah chapter 25, hear the word of God. O Lord, you are my God. I will exalt you, I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things. Plans formed of old, faithful and sure. For you have made the city a heap, the fortified city a ruin, the foreigner's palace is a city no more, it will never be rebuilt. Therefore, strong peoples will glorify you. Cities of ruthless nations will fear you. For you have been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm, and a shade from the heat. For the breath of the ruthless is like a storm against a wall, like heat in a dry place. You subdue the noise of foreigners as heat by the shade of a cloud So the song of the ruthless is put down on this mountain. The Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine of rich food full of marrow of aged wine well refined and he will swallow up On this mountain, the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations, he will swallow up death forever. And the Lord will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. It will be said on that day, behold, this is our God. We have waited for him that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. For the hand of the Lord will rest on this mountain. And Moab shall be trampled down in his place as straw is trampled down in a dung hill. And he will spread out his hands in the midst of it as a swimmer spreads out his hands to swim. But the Lord will lay low his pompous pride, together with the skill of his hands. And the high fortifications of his walls he will bring down, lay low, and cast to the ground, to the dust. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your words are faithful and true. You never fail to keep your promises. They are all yes in Christ, for those who belong to you. So speak to us now by your Holy Spirit and write this word on our hearts. That it might not just be something we hear with our ears or acknowledge in our minds, but that which we receive into our very hearts and that shapes our lives. They say there's like two things you're not really supposed to talk about. Right? Politics and religion, which is so interesting because we talk about them all the time. And I was watching this guy on YouTube and he said, really, people would much rather talk about politics and religion than like how much money they make. So like we don't ever talk about like how much money we make in but there's one thing that we even like talking about less than all three of those. And that is death. I mean you want to quiet a conversation and have someone looking for an escape. Just bring up the topic of death. What is death? Why do we die? What can be done about it? Well Madeline Longell, who wrote A Wrinkle in Time and other books for young adults, was a Christian woman. She said, death is contagious. It is contracted the moment we are conceived. But Mitch Album, a contemporary writer, disagrees. He says it's not contagious, you know. Death is as natural as life. It's part of the deal we made And what's interesting is we all know we're going to die. That's the universal thing. Like I've said this before, but you know, another thing we say that's not really true is there's only two sure things in life, death and taxes. And I've said before, many people get away without paying any taxes. There's only one sure thing, and that is that we are all going to die. And it's not, though, a natural part of life. That's not true. Nor is it as natural as life, but it is part of the deal we made And you might think, well, wait a minute, I don't remember making any kind of a deal where I accepted death as a consequence for the deal that we made. Well, that's because the deal was made a long time ago, before any of us were born. It was made by our first parents, Adam and Eve, in the Garden of Eden. They made a deal. Now they were deceived into making this deal. They were deceived by the devil. But in that moment they should have trusted the Word of God over the Word of that lying serpent, because that lying serpent told them you will not surely die. But God had already told them, of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you may not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you will surely die. You will become mortal. And so will all of your posterity. That is that is the consequence Of Adam and Eve choosing to believe the word of the serpent over the word of God. And in swallowing the forbidden fruit, they ate judgment on themselves and all of their posterity throughout all their generations, and here we are still suffering from that swallowing so long ago Since Adam and Eve were all born mortal, Matthew Longel's right, we contract the infection of death at our conception. This reality has sadly led to all sorts of evil and oppression in the world because when tyrants rise up within any power in the world, the number one tool they have to get their way is the threat of death. And people are so afraid of death that they're willing to do almost anything to avoid it, and so they will participate with tyrants in carrying out great and horrific evil. Being members of death squads, executing innocent people in concentration camps. This is human history over and over and over again, as long as it's somebody else and not me. And even the ultimate tyrant of humanity, the devil, he uses people's fear of death to hold us in slavery Hebrews 2. 15 tells us that this is why actually Jesus had to take on flesh and blood. We read, Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things. That through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. We live lives of enslavement, of to fear and anxiety, because we are afraid of death. And yet Jesus, we read, took on flesh and blood, so that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death. And that's what our passage today is about. all about. It's all about how Jesus destroys the one who has the power of death. Isaiah 25 begins with a song of celebration. Celebrating the downfall of the ruthless oppressors of God's people. It picks right up on the theme of judgment we were looking at last week in Isaiah 24. It begins, O Lord, you are my God. I will exalt you, I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things, plans formed of old, faithful and sure. Sean was right when he said earlier. We don't need any other reason to praise God than that he commands us to praise him. That's it. If God says praise him, we should praise him. But God is gracious and give us lots and lots of reasons to praise him. There are reasons that are rooted in who God is, his attributes, but then there's reasons that are rooted in what God has done. And here the root of this praise song is that God has done wonderful things, things that He planned to From of old, faithful and sure. But I need to stop us because we can't really get into Isaiah 25 unless we're very clear on the very first line. Because the song that is here in Isaiah 25 is not a song for everyone to sing. It's a song of great joy. It's a song of everything we are afraid of being done away with forever and everything we've hoped for coming true forever. But it is not a song that everyone can sing. What's the opening line of Isaiah twenty-five? O Lord, O Yahweh, you are My God. Isaiah sings this song because the Lord is his God And so he says, I will praise you because wonderful things that you've planned, you are bringing about. So the question right up front before we go any further is this question, very directly, is the Lord your God? Because if he's not, then you exit at verse one. But if he is, then this is your song too, and you're invited to join in and sing it from your heart as well. What does that mean? Who is your God? Who is your hope? Who is your strength? What brings you comfort Where do you turn when your heart is broken? Who do you trust for your day and your future? Who has your heart? Is the Lord your God? Or is it just like a convenient thing to do on Sunday morning to come to church and worship for a little bit But then I'm going to go out and chase after money or chase after fame or chase after power or chase after pleasure or distractions through entertainments. Is the Lord your God? How do you know Well the second line actually gives you a very good test. And that is that the second line says, I will exalt you, I will praise your name If the Lord is your God, you will want to exalt him and praise him. You will want to worship him and and tell people what he has done for you, and you will long for the day when everyone will know him for who he is and will honor him as the one true God and only wise Savior. Last week, Tim Keller, who was a longtime PCA pastor, went home to be with the Lord after a three-year battle with cancer. Shortly before he died, he left behind a message for young pastors, the next generation coming up. And I didn't always agree with Tim Keller on everything that he said or did, just to be clear. But what he said in this message is absolutely right. And he said, do not seek to make a name for yourself. Do not seek to build a reputation for yourself. Do not seek to build your kingdom, your church, your empire, your little corner of the world. Glorify God. Preach Jesus And be content if the world has no idea who you are. If God is our God, then what we want most of all is for Him to be present. And we want to be with him, and we want others to know about him. And so we praise him. We praise him here because he's done Wonderful things, plans formed from of old, faithful and sure. What has he planned? What has God planned from of old? Well, specifically here, he has planned to bring about the final judgment and downfall of the nations. Who are depicted here as the city, the fortified city, strong peoples Ruthless nations. This is a major theme throughout scripture, and it's really important to understand if you're going to understand the Bible, if you're going to understand reality, you're going to understand the world. And that is, there has always been a human project. To advance and glorify the name of humanity And the Bible will often summarize this as referring to it as the city, the city of man. Sometimes Will single out individual cities like Nineveh or Babylon or Damascus or Tyre and Sidon or later in the New Testament Rome. But it really is the human city The first major example of it is Babel, the Tower of Babel, where people got together. God had said, spread out, fill the earth, subdue it. And they said, no, we're not going to spread out, we're going to gather together. And rather than spread God's rule over creation, we're going to concentrate our rule for our name, and we're going to build a tower that reaches heaven so that we can achieve greatness on our own. And God had to come down to see the tower that they had built, and he broke it down and he scattered them all over the earth. And ever since then, Babel, Babylon, has been replayed over and over and over again. again. You can see it in New York City If you stand in Central Park and you look, the latest trend has been to build ever taller and taller skyscrapers around Central Park that have a view of the park. They sit half empty. They cost billions of dollars. And just this past week, I don't know if you heard this or not, but the weight. of the skyscrapers of Manhattan is actually sinking Manhattan. That's just one example. But Scripture also contrasts the city of man with the city that God is building. The holy city, Mount Zion, Jerusalem, the New Jerusalem, the church. And the church father Augustine wrote about this contrast in his great classic work called The City of God, which is a wonderful sprawling work that covers history and theology and social critique. But what we have here is a picture from God of the destiny of these two cities. We get a contrast in verses four and five between these two cities, of the strength of God as a refuge for his people from the world. And the relative strength of this city, of these people who hate God and hate his people. 4 and 5 with me, for you have been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm and a shade from the heat. For the breath of the ruthless is like a storm against a wall, like heat in a dry place. You subdue the noise of foreigners. As heat by the shade of a cloud, as the song of the ruthless is put down. God Is an effective stronghold and a shelter for his people against the wicked of the world, who pursue God's people like a storm But like a storm encounters a solid stone wall, it can't touch God's people. It's like heat in a dry place, but as soon as you find some shade The heat is no longer a problem. God is the shade for his people. And ultimately, God will completely silence The songs of those who ruthlessly pursue his people. And this gets us to our second question. The first question is: Is the Lord your God? And to unpack that, our second question is, what are you trusting in as your shelter? Where do you hide yourself in times of trouble? Really? Do you just turn on something on television to binge watch so that you can take your mind off of it and just forget about it for a while until you fall asleep watching the seventh episode? Or do you turn to food to comfort you? Or exercise or your career and your income to provide you with security or maybe a security system and a home defense that you have? Or do you flee to the Lord? for refuge and shelter. Do you realize that the the worst danger that comes at you is temptation to rebel against God, to give in to your doubts and fears, to go along with the world and its opposition to God. And do you, in those moments of temptation when you're tempted to doubt God, To doubt his goodness, to run after the things that the world is promising. Do you run to God as your shelter? Do you turn to him and say, Oh Lord, save me? My heart is being drawn away to temptation. I am doubting you. I am afraid. And I'm not trusting in you. Save me, hide me, shelter me, be my strength. That's a prayer that God always answers. That God delights to hear us cry out to Him because we're confessing that we can't be our own strength. We can't hide ourselves. We can't save ourselves. We hide ourselves in him. And when we hide ourselves in him, then when this world falls down When the song of the ruthless is put down, we are put up on a mountain. It's a beautiful picture in verses six through nine. On this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a field Feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine, of of rich food, full of marrow, of aged wine, well refined And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. It will be said in that day, behold, this is our God. We have waited for him, that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. On that day when all the song of the ruthless is put down, God actually prepares two feasts: a feast for his people, and then a feast for himself. God prepares a feast for his people. We get a foretaste of this feast now. Now, when we gather for the Lord's Supper and we eat the bread and we drink the wine, we are getting a foretaste. An appetizer of that eternal feast that's being prepared for us. When we get spiritual comfort, when we get assurance of salvation, when we receive forgiveness of our sin. And peace of conscience, we are getting a foretaste of that feast that will be spread before us. And the feast that is coming. Is going to be glorious and satisfying and wonderful. Listen, I think that sometimes even we as Christians are guilty of thinking That God doesn't really want us to have too much fun. That somehow it's like Being a Christian oughta be like someone tells a joke, you know, a good, appropriate joke And you think it's funny and you start to laugh and you're like, oh, but I better not laugh too much, right? Or someone prepares a wonderful meal and you start to eat it and you think, oh, this is so good. And you think, oh, I better not enjoy it too much Ralph Davis, who who preached here uh last summer, I think it was last summer, he has this great expression that stuck in my mind uh for years since I heard it. Um he said, Too many Christians believe in lemon juice and vinegar Christianity. Like to be a real Christian you ought to just Look like you just sucked on a lemon and downed some vinegar, you know? Like that's real Christianity. But that's not what God tells us That's actually a lie from Satan. You see, when God created Adam and Eve, he set them in a garden, an abundant garden. With a wide variety of wonderful things to enjoy, he gave them to each other, body and soul, they were naked and unashamed. He had close, intimate fellowship with them. He walked with them in the garden in the cool of the day. They were given joy and happiness and pleasure and delight. And there was no regret, and there was no shame and there was no sorrow until they disobeyed God. Sin brings sorrow. and shame and regret. God has designed us for joy and for pleasure God has created us with the ability to experience pleasure, and He has created all pleasures for us to enjoy. You know, Satan never created anything, so he hasn't created any pleasures. All he can do is take the pleasures that God has created and distort them and use them to enslave us. Sin distorts pleasure and makes it destructive and enslaving. But here's the good news: when God redeems humanity forever. He delivers us from sin forever, and we are perfected, just like Jesus in his human nature. We will be free. to enjoy all pleasure to the glory of God in complete freedom without any fear of being enslaved or controlled by our appetite. And so we will enjoy a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine. And then Isaiah repeats and expands on it so we don't miss it. A feast of food, rich food full of marrow. I mean this is a nice juicy steak that's dripping and just So tender, of aged wine, well refined. Jesus gave us a little preview of this with his first miracle, right? What was Jesus' first miracle? Right? He went to the wedding at Cana in Galilee and he turned water into wine. And what kind of wine was it? It was the It was better than anything that any person had prepared. It was the good wine. Jesus didn't give them the boxed wine with a little plastic spout. He gave them the good wine. And how much of it? There were six stone jars for purification holding 20 to 30 gallons each. And they were filled to the top, and then the wine was drawn out. That's a preview. The reason why Jesus did that is a preview. He says, I've come so that when I have fulfilled everything You will experience eternal pleasure. Psalm 16 says, in the end, in your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. The maximum level of joy and the eternal duration of pleasure is found one place and one place only, and that is with the God God who made us solid joys and lasting pleasures, none but Zion's children know. And we know it in part now, but we will know it in full then. Meanwhile, God Himself will eat on that mountain. He will swallow up death forever. Swallowing in Scripture is an act of judgment. Often. When Adam and Eve ate the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil, they ate judgment to themselves. They swallowed the judgment of God. when they made that choice. When God wanted to give his people a picture of what they needed in the sacrifices of the Old Testament, and they would bring their sacrifices to the tabernacle and to the temple. If it was a sin offering or a guilt offering, it was swallowed up by the fire. It was consumed before the Lord When people eat and drink at the Lord's Supper without believing in Jesus, First Corinthians eleven warns us You eat and drink judgment to yourself. Because you're taking the symbols of the body and blood of Christ without faith. And you're actually confirming your your own judgment. Jesus had to take on flesh and blood To deliver us from sin and death because he had to swallow our sin And God's wrath. That's why in that garden of Gethsemane, the night that he was betrayed, our Lord prayed in agony and said. Said, Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will. But yours be done. Our sin and the judgment that we deserve had to be swallowed by Jesus. And then Jesus, having become sin for us, God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, having become sin for us, Jesus was then swallowed by death. And to picture that, he was put in the open mouth of the grave. But while death had swallowed Jesus because Jesus had become sin for us, we're told by Peter in Acts 2 that it was not possible for death to keep its hold on Jesus. Jesus, because Jesus was and is, in fact, the sinless Son of God, the righteous one. So once he had made satisfaction for our sin, once he had been able to say it is finished, death had to release him And in releasing him, Jesus became the first fruits of the resurrection, the firstborn from the dead. So death swallowed Jesus, but then Jesus burst out of death and defeated death forever. And all who belong to Jesus, all who are his by faith. receive the forgiveness that he purchased on the cross, are covered in his righteousness, and share in his undying life. This is why Jesus said, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet he shall live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall Shall never die. Now Jesus says two different things there, and it can be very confusing. Whoever believes in me though he die, yet he shall live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. How does that work? Because our bodies that we inherit from Adam die and are buried in the ground But we don't really die because our souls go to be with God immediately, and though we die, we shall live in the resurrection. The bodies of believers are buried in the ground and shall be raised on the last day. Jesus gave us a preview of this when he raised Lazarus, but a truer demonstration was when he himself was raised from the dead in a body that never died again. Jesus rose again His body rose again. They went into the tomb, and he wasn't there because his body rose again. And yet the body that he rose again in was not exactly like the body that he was buried in, because this body could do things like pass through solid walls. because the upper room door was locked and they were shut inside for fear of being arrested and all of a sudden Jesus says, Peace be with you. And they're like, how did he get in? I thought the door was locked. And he could disappear from their sight as he broke bread with the disciples who were on the road to Emmaus, and then he was taken away from their sight. He had a body, but it wasn't a body like he had before. It was an eternal body, and in that same body Jesus sits at the right hand of God the Father, ruling over all heaven and earth as King of kings and Lord of Lords, and in that same body he is coming again. Let me read this to you from 1 Corinthians 15. If you've got a Bible Turn to 1 Corinthians 15. I'm not going to read the whole chapter, but I want to read some chunks from it because it's so good. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. We're going to start in verse 20. I'm going to read 20 to 28 and then I'm going to skip down to verse 51. I encourage you to read this whole chapter later today when you have time. 1 Corinthians 15, Christ has been raised from the dead. The first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive, but each in his own order Christ the first fruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ. Then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father, after destroying every rule and every authority and power, for he must reign. until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For God has put all things in subjection under his feet. But when it says all things are put in subjection, it is plain that he is accepted who put all things in subjection. Subjection under him. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son Himself will also be subjected to Him who put all things in subjection under Him, that God may be all in all. Look at verse 51. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written, death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord. Jesus Christ. On that day, Isaiah twenty five nine tells us he will swallow up death forever. Forever. And death will no longer take the ones we love and separate us from them, but we will be together forever. And the end of death will be the end of tears. As the very next line says, and the Lord will wipe away tears. From all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. We get a fuller picture of this in Revelation Revelation 21, the first time that I remember experiencing the pain of death. was in nineteen eighty five. I was eleven years old and my nana went home To be with the Lord. Our daughter Catherine is named after her. She was a tremendous spiritual influence in my young life. And I remember going to her memorial service and and crying. But then I remember this passage being shared. Revelation twenty-one Revelation 21, then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. We will be with God forever. The one we've waited for will come. And when he comes, he will put an end to everything, everything that causes us pain and suffering. Sorrow, no more sickness, no more surgeries, no more hospitalizations, no more cancer, no more chemotherapy, no more divorce, no more abuse. No more loneliness, no more rejection. All sin and sorrow will be done away with. Every bit of pain will be swallowed up with Eternal joy. Forever. Forever. That's not where this passage ends, though And I want to be faithful to Scripture and end where the passage ends. And that is with a word about Moab. Well Pastor, do we really have to end with a word about Moab? That was so good. Can't you just say amen? I'm not going to edit scripture. I promised you that I will preach you the whole word of God, and we will have the whole word of God. Verse 10 The hand of the Lord will rest on this mountain, and Moab shall be trampled down in his place, as thrall is trampled down Down in a dunghill. And he will spread out his hands in the midst of it, as a swimmer spreads his hands out to swim. But the Lord will lay low his pompous pride together with the skill of his hands. And the high fortifications of his walls he will bring down, lay low, and cast to the ground to the dust. This is exactly what we read in Revelation 21, too. If we picked up reading there, we would see the rest of it says, And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, to the thirsty. I will give from the spring of water of life without payment. As for murderers, the sexually immoral sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is The second death. Moab was a place that was close by the Promised Land, but not in And so Moab stands here for those who are close but not in. I remember when we were in Israel floating in the Dead Sea, and you can look to the east. And you can see the mountains of Moab and Edom, these great mountains. And on one of those mountains, Moses was able to look over into the promised land, but he wasn't able to go in. Those mountains are close by and highly lifted up, but they're not in. So this is our final word There are those who are close to the people of God, who are close to the gospel, but who remain on the outside looking in. Don't be Moab. Don't remain on the borders looking in. Come to Jesus. Call out to Him. Say, You are my God, you are my fortress, you are my shelter. Save me. Jesus will answer that prayer, and you too will sit at the feast and enjoy the blessings of eternal life with the God you've waited for, the one who alone satisfies Our souls don't be the one who is on the outside of the city. Don't be Moab. I said that was the last word, but I'm a preacher, so I got one more. I hate it when preachers do that. And finally, twenty minutes later, and finally, this is really is finally. Waiting. Uh, I believe it was Tom Petty who that wise theologian who said waiting is the hardest part. And it is. It's hard to wait. I remember very well waiting to get married. Beth and I have been dating for over three and a half years. We've been engaged for over two years. Those final weeks after she graduated from college and before we got married, a little less than a month, were intensely busy with wedding preparations, but also just agonizing, just waiting. Waiting. Waiting is hard, but waiting is good when the one you're waiting for is faithful and true. And being with him forever is so worthwhile. I'll give you another sillier analogy. Waiting for your wedding day is great. Thanksgiving dinner. I've told you guys this before and I'm really not trying to make you covet, but I don't care who you are or where you are, I get to eat the best Thanksgiving dinner on the planet. My wife, Beth, and her sister, Bonnie, and her Aunt Dee Dee, they conspire together to create just amazingness The thing is, Bonnie's such a gracious host that she she puts out appetizers. and stuff all day long. And so what I've done several years and regretted is I've eaten so much of the tasty appetizers that by the time we come to Thanksgiving dinner I'm like, ugh I guess I'll eat this, it looks so good, but I'm like shoving it down and forcing myself to swallow and then I feel miserable afterwards. But there have been some years when I've said I'm not going to do that. I'm going to just taste a little bit of the appetizers and I'm going to withhold and I'm going to wait. And Thanksgiving dinner has been so much better because I was hungry for it. Right? We should be hungry for the second coming of the Lord. We should be hungry to see the Lord face to face. We shouldn't be gorging ourselves on the junk food of this world. We know there is a rich Feast, food full of marrow, well-aged wine. We can put away the Doritos and the Pepsi of this world And we can make our hearts hungry, looking for him, trusting him, and longing for him until that day. That day will be so worth it. So let's wait for him Let's pray. Father, we love you and thank you for your so good and so kind and so generous to us. Help us to wait with faith and patience. Help us to rejoice in what you've done for us now. Help us to exalt in your goodness to us now, to praise your name, to spread your fame, but help us to wait with longing eagerness for that day that is coming. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen