Turn with me please to Psalm 12. Psalm 12 as we continue our summer in the Psalms Secure in the Lord. Psalm 12 is written to the choir master according to the Sheminith, a psalm of David. Save, O Lord, for the godly one is gone, for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man. Everyone utters lies to his neighbor with flattering lips and a double heart they speak. May the Lord cut off all flattering lips. The tongue that makes great boasts, those who say, with our tongue we will prevail. Our lips are with us. Who is master over us? Because the poor are plundered, because the needy groan, I will now arise, says the Lord. I will place him in the safety for which he longs. The words of the Lord are pure words, like silver refined in a furnace on the ground, purified seven times You, O Lord, will keep them. You will guard us from this generation forever. On every side the wicked prowl, as vileness is exalted among the children of man. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, in a world full of lies, we need your truth. And you speak a pure truth to us, not a truth to flatter. but a truth to give us life. So speak to us, we pray. May we hear the truth of your word Above the lies of the world and the deceiving lies of our own hearts. We ask this by the power of your Holy Spirit and in the name of Jesus. Amen. You may be seated. By the way, these titles that we find in The Psalms, they are original to the Psalms. They're in the oldest manuscripts and all the manuscripts, so we believe they were originally part of the Psalter. If you look like in your ESB Bible, you'll see there's a title above that says the faithful have vanished That's a title that the ESV translators have added to give you just a heading, right? This is what this psalm is about, the faithful had vanished. But then below that you see in all caps the part that I read when I said this is the Word of God, and I read to the choir master according to the Sheminith a Psalm of David. So that tells us this was written for public worship. According to the Shemenith, we don't really know what that means. And that's why it's left in the Hebrew, according to the Shemenith. It probably means the tune that it was sung to. And I could ask Lauren to come back and play a few bars of the cheminess for us, but uh we have no idea what that sounded like. So um that's probably a reference to the tune that it was sung to And then it's written by David. So that's just a little bit of FYI. You'll notice that I always read the title because it is part of the Word of God, even though we may not understand every part of it. Alright, so when you're in trouble, when you're in a tight spot, when you're in distress, when you're in difficulty, what do you really need? Do you need someone who will tell you what you want to hear? Especially how wonderful you are, and how unfair it is that you are being so mistreated, or do you need someone who will have the courage to tell you the truth? That perhaps the trouble you're in is at least partly of your own making, and that there may be something you could do to get out of it. Sometimes the words we need to hear are not the words we want to hear, and the words we want to hear are not the words we need to hear, right? And so what we need to do is we need to beware the flatterer Flattering lips are referenced twice in this psalm. Beware the flatterer was the advice that the shepherds in the delectable mountains gave to Christian and hopeful as they entered into the final stage of their journey in Pilgrim's progress So, understanding the allegory, this is a word for mature Christians who have been in the Christian pilgrimage for a while and who have overcome many difficulties. They encounter the shepherds in the delectable mountains as they begin the final stage of their journey toward the celestial city. So think about if you're familiar with the story at all, all that Christian has already been through. He's already escaped from the slough of despond by getting help to find the stones, the promises of God in the middle of his despondency. He's already escaped from the trap of legalism that was threatening him at Mount Sinai. He's already learned his lesson about climbing the hill difficulty and not falling asleep for too long. So a lesson about perseverance through difficulty. He's already made his way through the terrifying lions to get to the house beautiful where he was armored, and then he went out and he faced battle against Apollyon This great destroyer, and he was able to overcome him by the word of God, which is the sword of the Spirit. Then he went to the valley of the shadow of death, where he faced overwhelming doubt and fear and had to stay on the road by faith and needed prayer because he couldn't see in the dark even to read his Bible, but he needed to pray, to persevere in prayer. You know, he's been through Vanity Fair where he his friend Faithful was martyred, but he successfully made it through Vanity Fair, didn't give in to the temptations there, got out of doubting castle through the key promise. In other words, he's been through a lot. He's an experienced Christian. He's seasoned. He's not a newbie. Right? And yet the shepherds and the delectable mountains, they give Christian and hopeful three pieces of advice. First of all, they give them a map for the rest of the journey. And then they tell them, don't fall asleep in the enchanted ground, and beware the flatterer. These are three pieces of advice that all of us need, no matter how long we've been Christians. One, follow the map. Sometimes we get to a point where we think, I have read the Bible. I know the Bible. I know what it says. And we think, oh, I need something else. I need some other life advice manual. I need some self-help book. I need some Follow the map. Right? Don't fall asleep. Don't get spiritually drowsy. Don't get so complacent that you become sort of lazy and half asleep spiritually. And the way that Christian and hopeful kept themselves awake in the enchanted ground, kept themselves from falling asleep as it by engaging in spiritual conversation. They told each other their testimonies. They asked each other spiritual questions. They engaged in spiritual conversation with other pilgrims. But even though they followed the map, and even though they kept each other awake with spiritual conversation They did not beware the flatterer. And the flatterer led them astray. And they got caught in a net. And they had to be freed by an angel who freed them, but also imposed some discipline on them. Before sending them back on the way. In other words, we can be mature, we can be discerning, we can be experienced, we can know the Bible well, and we can still be susceptible to flattery. Flattery is dangerous to all of us. Sometimes I'll joke when someone says something nice to me and I'll jokingly say, you know, flattery will get you everywhere with me Uh and I don't mean that, seriously, but everybody likes to have nice things said to them. I mean he said to be a strange person to not you know, feel good when someone says something nice to you, right? But that's what's the difference between being kind to someone and flattery? Well, if you look in Psalm 12, the key, in verse 2, everyone utters lies to his neighbor with flattering lips and a double heart. they speak. That's the issue. It's a lie that comes from a double heart. I'm going to be kind. I'm going to say something nice. But really I have an ulterior motive. Really, I'm trying to get something from you. That's the kind of thing that we need to be on our guard about ourselves doing. but also other people. Our world is full of flattering voices, and you know it. Politicians flatter because they want to get our vote. People who pretend to be our friends can flatter because they want either our gratitude or our respect or they want us to feel indebted to them. Salesmen can flatter us because they want to get our money. And we must beware the flatterer, or we will regret it later. When we find out that that person we thought was on our side and being nice to us was really using us. to get what they wanted. Flatterers often come to us when we're in distress, when we're in a difficult place. David's clearly in a difficult place in Psalm 12. He's distressed. He's crying out to the Lord, save, O Lord! For the godly one is gone, for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man. Everyone utters lies to his neighbor with flattering lips and a double heart, they speak. David looked around him and he saw no one who was truly godly. No one who was truly faithful to God. David wasn't looking for nice people. He wasn't looking for good people. He wasn't looking for talented people or successful people. He was looking for godly, faithful people. He was a man after God's own heart. And he wanted people around him who would be people after God's own heart so they could pursue the Lord and the Lord's will for the kingdom together. And he said, That's not what I have. I have a bunch of yes men, I have a bunch of flatterers A bunch of two-faced, double-hearted liars around me. How can I trust anyone? Sometimes we can feel alone in our desire to sincerely follow God and be faithful to Him in our lives. Most people, if we look around, it seems to be that most people basically live lives to please themselves. Most people just sort of go through their day trying to get what they think they need to have a good life. They might do it through the pursuit of money or status or success. or pleasure or recreation or an ideal family life or even intense physical fitness or video gaming. Whatever it is, they think this is going to make me happy, this is going to make me feel better, this is going to make me have a better life, so I'm going to do this. Why? Because it helps me. And they really don't think much beyond that. Well? I have a news flash for you. People who are living for themselves and what they think will give them a better life are, by definition, selfish. Selfish people look at issues of truthfulness as just another thing to be manipulated to get what they want. If they have to bend or twist the truth a little bit to tell people what they want to hear, even if it's not 100% sincere, that's what they'll do. And we need to confess that this isn't just something found out there in the world. It is very often, too often, the way that professing Christians interact with one another within the church. I'm going to say to you what I think you want to hear so that you'll think I'm a good person. We can put on our Sunday morning smiles. And be oh so pleasant to each other. And most of the time we're not malicious about it, but we're just thinking, I want everyone to think we have a good family life, that I'm a nice person, that I'm that I'm the kind of person that my dog thinks that I am And so I'm going to put on a face, and very soon that can lead to flattery. This isn't just something that politicians and salespeople do, it is something that we do. And we can do it without even knowing it. And the reason why we can do it without even knowing it is that we too have double hearts. We have a heart that says, I love the Lord. I want to serve the Lord. I'm here to worship God. I'm here because the Lord is my Savior and I'm thankful to Him and I'm part of His church and I'm happy to be here. But also There may be something else I'm trying to get. Feels good to be respected. Feels good to have people think well of me. You know, whatever. Whatever selfish motive we may have, there's this double heart aspect within all of us. That's why one of the best prayers that David prays in the Psalms that we can pray is, Lord, unite my heart. to fear your name. Unite my heart to fear your name I am now of an age where I need these things a lot more than I used to. I I really think my eyes are getting worse every single week. Like it's ridiculous. But what happens is when I'm looking at something It's out of focus and it's it's double or triple and it's blurry and then I go like this and it becomes one. We need God to do that in our hearts I have my fleshly cravings. I have the allure of the world. I have the planted seeds of doubt from the enemy. I have people pleasing. But I also have a desire to love and serve the Lord because He's been so good to me. And my heart's kind of blurry and out of focus. And unite my heart to fear your name. It's a great time for us to pray another prayer that David gives us in the Psalms, and that's the prayer at the end of Psalm 139. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. See if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. I might go this way, I might go that way, I might say this word, I might say that word. Lord, search me and know me. Try my heart, know my thoughts, see if there's any grievous way in Me and lead me in the way everlasting. A singular heart that loves the Lord is what we need. But the truth is that the more we get that, the more God answers that kind of prayer, the more we get that, the more we're going to recognize that there's a whole bunch of people around us who have fuzzy hearts like we would have and we did have and we sometimes still do have but it's it it can become difficult. And so what does David pray? Well the opening line of this Psalm is a great prayer, and here's one that all of you can memorize right now because it's not hard. You want a Bible prayer to memorize and use in any time? I'll give it to you in three words Save, O Lord! There you go. You've got it memorized. That is a simple prayer. That is a direct prayer. That is a prayer you can pray at any time, and is the prayer that the Lord is happy to answer. Save, O Lord. Now your translation, if you have something other than the ESV, it may say help, O Lord. And that's not a bad translation, but save is better because the root here is the same root as the word for salvation. Which, if you've heard me speak on the Psalms much before, you know is the same word as the name of Jesus. Yeshua means Jesus, and Yeshua also means salvation. And this is the asking form of that. Save, O Lord, which is a reminder to us that whenever we're crying out to the Lord for salvation, we are crying out to the Lord for Jesus because He's our only Savior. We have no other salvation. There is no other name given under heaven among men by which we must be saved. So wherever we are, we need more of Jesus. And less of us. Less of the world. Less of the devil. Less of the lies. More of Jesus. More of his truth. More of his grace. More of his character. So when we pray, save, O Lord, we're praying. I need you, Jesus. And you could pray that too. Save, O Lord, I need you, Jesus. David then expands his plea. when he picks it up in verse 3 and he gets more specific about what he's asking God for. May the Lord cut off all flattering lips. The tongue that makes great boasts. Those who say, with our tongue we will prevail, our lips are with us. Who is master over us? David's request is very simple. He is tired of the flattery, of the lies, of the two-facedness, and he just says, cut them off. Cut off their lips and cut off their tongues. Pretty graphic image actually. What he really means is just stop the liars and their lies. Particularly two kinds of lies that he wants the Lord to stop, flattery and boasting. Flattery and boasting. People in our culture are always engaged in flattery or boasting. Have you noticed that? Our culture loves flattery and boasting. People in our culture are always telling others how great they are, how wonderful or beautiful, whether they really mean it or not. And when they're not doing that, they're boasting of how wonderful and special they are themselves. Why do we do that? Why is our culture addicted to this particular form of lying. Well, not only because it's human nature, but also because of a big lie, I think, that our culture has accepted. And the big lie is that what everyone needs most is a good self-esteem And so we think that what people need is good self-esteem because we're told that if we don't love ourselves first, we won't be able to love others. And so we engage in self-flattery. Anybody old enough to remember Stuart Smalley from Saturday Night Live? Not that you've ever watched that show. but you may have seen clips on YouTube. Stuart Smalley would look in the mirror and he would say I'm good enough. I'm smart enough. And gosh darn it, people like me. Right? I'm good enough. And that's that's the self-flattery of our age. Because we think if I don't love myself, how can I love other people? So, and then we say, well, what does it mean to love other people, but to help other people love themselves? better. So if I'm loving myself better, I can help other people love themselves better. And it's honestly a little bit nauseating. Because it's just people thinking that this is what we need. I need to love myself, I need me time, I need self-care, and you need to love yourself, and you need me time. And you need self-care. And I'm not saying that we shouldn't take care of ourselves. Eating well and sleeping well and, you know, having your priorities straight is important. But The Bible calls us to love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and love our neighbor as we love ourselves. And ourselves are put third because everybody naturally loves themselves. That's assumed. We're all naturally selfish. What we need to work on is loving God and loving others. David just wants people who are going to speak the truth, plain and straight. He's sick of the posturing, the talk that struts like a rooster or a peacock or that manipulates like a weasel. He sees through it. He's like all you boasters You're like peacocks showing off your tail feathers. All you flatterers, you're like weasels trying to get the advantage over me. Godly people are focused on being faithful to God, and they know that God's truth is what we need most. And so what we need most is God's truth and people who love God's truth and people who are willing to speak God's truth to us strain straight and plain. I love people who will tell me the truth, even if it's not what I want to hear. I may not love it in the moment, but I'm thankful for it. And so he asks God for it. Now, the Lord responds to David in verse 5. And what's interesting is the response to David is unusual and unexpected. God doesn't respond very often within the Psalms. Most of the Psalms we have are prayers to God. And the prayers to God for a variety of different circumstances, prayers of thanksgiving, and prayers of pleading and desperation, and prayers of longing. and prayers of praise and worship. Most of the time we don't get a direct answer from God. So here in Psalm 12, this is the first Psalm in the Psalter that has a direct answer from God to the prayer that's expressed. There are some others, Psalm 60, Psalm 91, Psalm 95, that have an answer. But the answer here is probably not The answer that David was looking for. It doesn't seem to be the direct answer. Remember David's prayer? Cut off the lying lips. Cut off the tongues that boast. The flattering. God says this, because the poor are plundered, because the needy groan, I will now arise, says the Lord I will place him in the safety for which he longs. God doesn't say he's going to cut off the lying lips The boastful tongues, the flattery. He says he's going to protect his own. He's going to keep, he's going to guard, he's going to put them in safety. And he's also not just answering David. He doesn't say, yes, David, you're right. People have been flattering you and people have been boasting, I'm going to stop then and I'm going to save you. He doesn't say that. He says The poor are plundered, the needy groan, and I will arise and place him in the safety in which he belongs. It's interesting this answer I think there's two things going on here. One is David is not alone. He thinks he's alone, but he's not alone. And God's answer is reminding him that he's not the only one who's suffering. And so he's not the only one that God is going to answer. And you see this in the second line of verse 7, David responds and he gets it. He says, you will guard us. From this generation forever. No longer is he saying there's no godly people, there's no faithful people. But now David uses the language of us. We are taught to pray by the Lord using us and we language, aren't we? Our Father Who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Right? Give us this day our daily bread Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Why? Because when we are in distress, one of the lies that Satan will come at us with, and it's a way of puffing us up and actually getting us to both, is you're the only one. Who really sees the truth? You're the only one who really cares. All of these other people. And we need to realize, no, we're not alone. Just like Elijah when he fled from Jezebel and he ran as hard as he could, as far as he could, and he finally comes to collapse exhausted under the broom tree. He says, They've killed all your servants, and I alone, I alone am serving you. It seemed that way on Mount Carmel. There was nobody standing with Elijah, so he said, I'm alone. So God says, you need to go a little bit further and takes him out to the mountain of God and he finally answers him. And part of the answer that he gives him is I'm going to preserve the 7,000 in Israel who have not bowed the knee to Baal. Oh wait a minute, I'm not alone. Wait a minute. There's 7,000? That's kind of a lot of people. God always has his people. But the other thing about this is that God guards us. See the answer? You, O Lord, will keep them. You will guard us. From this generation forever. I will place him in the safety for which he longs. You will guard us from this generation. What does that mean? That means that God is not going to bring a final end. to the lying, flattering, boasting lips, until the very end, when Jesus comes again and all evil is vanquished But until that time, guess what? There's going to be liars in the world. There's going to be flatterers and there's going to be boasters. But what God can do, what God will do to answer, is to guard us in the midst of that. He will guard us in the midst of that. And how will he guard us in the midst of that? And that's the part that I skipped over. That's verse 6. How does God guard us? From the lying and the flattering lips? Verse 6. The words of the Lord are pure words, like silver refined in a furnace on the ground, purified seven times. You, O Lord, will keep them. I think that probably goes with the words that God keeps. When we're surrounded by lies. What do we want? What did David really want? Who can I trust? Who's going to tell me the truth? Where can I go and get it straight? And God says, right here. Right here. David would have had a copy of Deuteronomy that he would have written out by hand. And was supposed to guide him as he ruled us. Go back to the words of the Lord. There would have been words that God would have spoken to David through Nathan the prophet and through others, and God's saying, go back to the words of the Lord They're pure. People flatter and boast, but the Lord speaks pure truth when he speaks to his people always When God gives us his word, he gives us a word that is pure, a word that is absolutely free from impurities and imperfections. There's this powerful image. It's like silver refined in a furnace on the ground purified seven times. It's highly unusual to purify a metal that many times. You see the way it works is you have a chunk of ore and you stick it in the furnace and you heat it up until it melts and all the impurities float to the top and you scrape off the top, you wait for it to cool down. Now there's probably little tiny bits you didn't get that first time, so back into the furnace it goes, melt it again, impurities floats at the top, scrape it off again Really good, really refined silver might have been twice or three times refined, but the Word of God is like silver refined seven times. It is absolutely pure. You know that when metal gets refined to a level of absolute purity, it lasts forever. Late 2001, uh sorry, late 2021, early 2022, a man in England found sixty-nine silver coins in the dirt And once they cleaned them up, there was stuff on the outside. But once they cleaned them up, they were still intact. They were still silver coins. The silver was still good. And they could read them and tell that they were from the early 1200s. They were 800 years old, 800 years. They'd been sitting in the ground, and they were still silver. Back in 2009, there was an Anglo-Saxon hoard of gold objects found that dated to the early 600. hundreds. They were a millennia and a half old. They were 1400 years old. And they have them on display in a museum. And you can see that very intricate work is perfectly detailed, perfectly preserved, because it's pure King Tut's tomb wasn't uncovered for 3,300 years. That's three and a half millennia. That's older than the Psalms are. And yet, if you've seen the the treasures from King Tuz II, they're beautiful. Because they were pure gold. The things that were pure gold have been preserved. The things that were made of lesser material, not so much. God's word is pure. What's the point? The point is we may be looking at a psalm written by David 3,000 years ago, but it doesn't age God's word doesn't age, it doesn't go out of date, it doesn't become irrelevant to our lives. It is the same pure word today that it was 3,000 years ago. We can trust it. We can trust it. And so I think the main point, the simple point to take away from Psalm 12. Is that one key way that God preserves us from the lying, boasting, flattering tongues that are all around us and yes, even within us? is through the purity of his word, and so we must read, meditate on, pray, Trust in, and live our lives based upon these pure words of God. Every day of our lives. Let me ask you a very simple question. On which day of your life is the world not lying to you? That's the day when you don't need to read God's word and meditate on it. When the world is stops lying. When your own heart stops self-deceiving, that's a good day to take a break from being in God's Word. Let me know when that day comes. The world never shuts up. Our own restless, selfish hearts never shut up. We need God's word. It's a good practice. Not surprising to hear your pastor say this, but I really, it's just true. We need to make sure we are hearing the Word of God every day. It's a good practice to begin each day in the Word of God and return to it again and again throughout the day. One simple practice I recommend is a morning Bible reading time where you get up in the morning, you read the Bible And then in the evening, you gather with your family at the dinner table and you read the Bible again and you read a devotional book together. You begin your day and you come together again at the end of the day in the Word of God. Because all in between will be the lying and boasting and flattering. And the way to be immune from it is to know the truth. Because Jesus said the truth will set you free. We come to the end of Psalm 12, we see the reality that David's world has not changed. Psalm 12, verse 8: On every side the wicked prowl, as vileness is exalted among the children of man. You might think that's a very good description of America in 2024. But guess what? It was a very good description of Israel in 1000 B. C. And it's always been a very good description of human life in this world, because that's the world we live in. There's nothing new under the sun. The prophet Jeremiah declared, the heart is deceitful above all else. and is desperately wicked, and that reality has not changed in the 2600 years since he said it. A world full of deceitful hearts is a deceitful world. And yet The truth is that just as the world has not changed, the solution to the world has not changed either. It's only gotten richer and fuller. We have more of God's Word. We have a more complete word. We have more resources for understanding and applying the Word. We are richly blessed with an abundance By which we can read, meditate, sing, study, reflect, pray, and live the Word of God. So my closing question to you is very simple: whose word will you believe? God has said, never will I leave you, never will I forsake you, is Hebrews 13, 5. Jesus said, No one can snatch them out of my hand. It's John 10. 28. God has told us he works all things together for the good of those who love him and who are called according to his purpose. That's Romans 8. 28. And God has told us that His word is pure and that He never lies. So whose word will you believe? Will you give into fear and think that somehow God's people are going to be extinguished from the world? Or will you trust in the Word of God and live your life by it? There's a picture in Colossians 2 of what it looks like to live this way. And it's one that I want the Lord to put in our hearts and minds. And for us to be praying through this week. Colossians 2, verses 14 to 16 says this: Do all things without grumbling or disputing. that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish, in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation. among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. Yesterday, I had to replace the lock on my front door. Because The actual door handle part got stripped out internally. Don't know how. But Jeremiah was trying to get back in the house and he returned the door handle and the latch wouldn't retract. And I turned the door hand on the inside, the latch wouldn't retract. So sort of taking it apart and trying to figure out what's wrong with it, I said, oh let's put a new one in. So we went to the store and we got a new one, and I got home and realized that I had purchased the same kind. that I had before. I guess I like it. And I was trying to get one that looks about the same And I had a really hard time getting it in. It would it wouldn't go. It wouldn't line up right. It wouldn't go together and could try to, you know, jiggle it, twist it, move it around, get it. It wouldn't, it wouldn't close properly. And Jeremiah looked at it, looked at the instructions, looked at it again. We looked up a YouTube video, which is usually the solution to all things. Still didn't work. And let me just tell you, I have to confess my sin. I did some grumbling and disputing with the lock manufacturer. Okay, back to the store we go. But then on the way back to the store, I realized I'm starting to lose my bearings here. I'm starting to just become frustrated. So I was like, you know what I need? I need the Word of God. And so we just took a break. We listened to some Bible, listened to a devotional, listened to some worship music, prayed. Return that lock, get another one, come home, put it back together, done. Now I'm not saying if you read the Bible it's going to solve all your problems, but But the biggest problem I had, honestly, was was my own grumbling and disputing, my own like sense of like I'm no good at these kind of things. Why can't I be more mechanically inclined This is a simple door lock, what kind of a moron am I that I can't all that kind of stuff that you you know. Dad just needed to get quiet. And he needed to trust God that He is sovereign even over front door locks. And God answered. We need to hear, we need to hold fast to, we need to trust in, we need to hold forth the word of life. Because that's what we need, and that's what our families need, and that's what our neighbors need, and that's what our nation needs, and that's what the nations need. So may the Lord give us the grace to live and to shine. in this way. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you love us with a love that is faithful. Even when we are faithless. Even when we are easily tossed about by small and simplistic things, you are faithful. You are the rock who never fails. You are the anchor that never gives way. And your word is pure. Absolutely pure. Help us to live it, to love it. And to share it with others. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.