Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 589 and we've come to Hebrews chapter 12. Now this would normally be a devotional that Mike Talercio would do. I think I said that yesterday that he was going to be here doing Hebrews 12. Um but I also think I expressed a little bit of doubt as to whether or not that was going to happen because Mike has been dealing with a a loss in his family, so you can uh keep him in prayer and his family in prayer. But we are going to go together through Hebrews chapter 12 today. And I love this chapter. Love Hebrews 11. And when I did Hebrews 11 I said I almost want to go on and read the first four verses of chapter twelve and I feel the reverse like when I do s just come into chapter twelve I almost feel like You need to bring in all of chapter eleven because it starts with a therefore. And the therefore is telling us that in light of everything we saw about these men and women of God and the way that they lived by faith, though they were far from perfect, and all that God did in them and through them, through that faith, as they lived not for the things their eyes could see, but trusted in the promises of God. you know, therefore. And so this is where we're picking up our application of following in the footsteps of those who have walked by faith. in past generations. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to his word today. Father in heaven, your word is a rich treasure. Because it shows us Christ and it shows us our need for Christ. And it shows us how to walk by faith in Jesus and not by sight. trusting in the things of the world that pass away. So Father, write your word on our hearts and help us to follow you by faith, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Hebrews chapter twelve. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross. despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself so that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted. In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him For the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of Spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time, as it seemed best to them. but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share in his holiness. For the moment All discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Therefore, lift up your drooping hands, and strengthen your weak knees, and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather healed Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God and that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble, and by it many become defiled. That no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal. For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears. For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire, and darkness and gloom, and a tempest. And the sound of a trumpet and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them, for they could not endure the order that was given, if even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned. Indeed, so terrifying was the sight of Mount Zion and to the city uh uh so terrifying was the sight of sorry I have lost my place. Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I tremble with fear. But you have come to Mount Zion. and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all. and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood. that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. See that you do not refuse him who is speaking For if they did not escape when they refused who warned him on earth, how much less will we escape if we reject him who warns us from heaven? At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised yet once more, I will shake not only the earth. but also the heavens. This phrase, yet once more, indicates the removal of things that are shaken. That is, things that have been made. in order that the things that cannot be shaken may remain. Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. That's Hebrews chapter twelve. And again, this is really the application. This is This is the point where in the sermon, all the theology, all the doctrine, all the foundation, in the indicatives, in the truth, in the in in in the right understanding of things has been laid and here's the charge, here's the call. Right? You see parallels to this in the transition from in Romans from Romans eleven to Romans twelve, or in Ephesians from Ephesians three to Ephesians four, or in Philippians uh at the beginning of Philippians uh chapter three. And so what we have here is a very clear charge that's given on the basis of what has already been taught. And the immediate basis is the example of these people who live by faith. These people who live by faith are a great cloud of witnesses surrounding us. They've gone on before. They have now received, together with those who are in Christ, the promises of being in the presence of God in perfection. Now they haven't yet received their resurrection bodies and the fullness of glory, but they have now been made perfect as Christ has been raised and ascended to the right hand of the Father, and as those who have died in Christ have gone on. And so they are now surrounding us as a great cloud of witnesses, and we are also called, as they did, to lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely. To not be dragged down by the things of the world. If we look at the things of the world and we treat them as though they are the eternal things And the things that truly matter, and the things that we have to live our lives for, they weigh us down. And sin clings so closely to us. Especially when we take our eyes off of Jesus and we're looking at the world around us or our own condition, our own feelings, and we're not focusing on Jesus. So the call is to run. with endurance the race that is set before us looking to Jesus. So we run the race. The command here is, let us run. It's an exhortation. Let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. And how do we do that? By looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith because he had to endure so much more than we have to endure. We might endure a little bit of ridicule or some doubt. We might have to endure some temptation or sin or sorrow or longing. He had to endure the cross. He had to endure the cross, and yet he looked to the joy of pleasing his Heavenly Father and of bringing into heaven a great inheritance. of saints. And so he despised the shame of the cross and he embraced what was given to him as a as a gift from his father, a way to save, the way to save the people of God. And he took his seat at the right hand of the throne of God. And so we're supposed to be like the saints who have gone before and lived by faith, and we're supposed to look to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith. And we're supposed to remember what he endured. And as the author of Hebrews reflects on what Jesus endured, he says, compare that to what you've endured. Have you yet resisted sin to the point of shedding your blood? Remember Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane? He agonized. Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not my will, but yours be done. And he was in such agony over the cross that he was going to have to endure that he that he was shedding blood in agony. He's not talking about the cross itself. He's talking about the agony in the garden of resisting the temptation to turn away from the cross. Jesus did not turn away from the cross, and he it was so agonizing for him that he sweat drops of blood. We cannot turn away from Jesus. And taking up our cross and following him, we have had what? Some hostility from a sinful world that despises us, some ridicule, some you know, mean language of how we're intolerant and we don't fit in and we're not nice people and we're kind of stupid. Okay, fine. But what is that to having to endure the cross? So we've not yet resisted to the point of shedding our blood, and so we need to endure. We also need to remember That God is sovereign over the suffering that we go through, and the suffering that we go through is discipline from a heavenly Father who loves us and who is disciplining us. He's training us to live for unseen and eternal things. He's training us to live by faith and not by sight. He's training us to live according to what we know is true and not just according to what we feel in our hearts or what we're pressured to do by the world. The world wants us to conform. Our own emotions want us to just give in and go along. But God, in his discipline, in his loving discipline for us, says, you're going to have to suffer hardship because it is good for you. to learn, to submit, to persevere, to endure as seeing the unseen And it will yield the peaceful fruit of righteousness for those who've been trained by it. That's what verse eleven promises. We endure the suffering, we take up our cross and follow Jesus, and it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness. And Tobi says, therefore What do we need to do? Keeping our eyes fixed on Jesus, running with endurance the race, what do we need to do? Lift up drooping hands, strengthen your weak knees, make straight paths for your feet. so that what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather healed. Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Do what you know is right. Believe what you know is true. Live for what you know is valuable. Be at peace with everyone. Absolutely. Strive for peace with everyone. Don't be obnoxious. Sometimes I think Christians act in ways that are obnoxious, calling attention to themselves. Because they almost delight in that, and that's not what we're supposed to do. We are supposed to strive for peace with everyone, but also for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. And this holiness is not shouldn't be understood primarily as good behavior in a moral sense, but rather as we have been set apart by God and for God. And if we forget that How is it that we are going to be face to face with God and know that that's where we belong? You understand what I'm saying? It's not primarily about doing the right thing and not doing the wrong thing, although that has some fruit that comes from that. It's primarily about remembering that we are holy. We are called to be holy. We've been set apart by God and for God. And if we don't embrace that, if we don't live for that, how is it that when we see God face to face, we're going to know, this is where I belong, this is the one who set me apart for himself, this is my home? We're going to get there and say, I never really wanted to belong to this guy. I never really wanted to be set apart for his purposes, and we're not going to be delighting in the presence of God if we don't understand that we are holy and live that way now. And then he gets into some moral things. You know, a a root of bitterness can grow up in our hearts when we think, oh Ever since I became a Christian my life's become so much more difficult. I have to go through all this stuff. Non-Christians don't have to worry about this kind of stuff. They don't have to deal with people calling them names. And that root of bitterness grows up in us and it causes trouble. And it might cause us To compromise like Esau and say, you know, I I'm just hungry. I just want me a bowl of red stew. Uh I I just I just want to give in, I just want to go along, I just and and so we become sexually immoral, we become im uh unholy, we become compromised and worldly. And we despise the treasure of the blessing. Esau was the firstborn son of Isaac. who was the child of promise. But he despised that. He had no treasure in his heart for his position of being the firstborn son of the child of promise, the promised Heir of the covenant. He didn't value it. And so he didn't value it. He sold it cheap for a single meal. And then later, when he thought, oh, that was kind of dumb, I shouldn't have done that, and he Remember he sought his father's blessing with tears? He said, You only have one blessing, Father? He didn't get the blessing. He didn't get the blessing. We are getting the blessing though, and the rest of this chapter is really laying out for us how much greater the blessing is that we are getting and how much more We ought to tremble and in reverent awe embrace and receive the blessing. We're not inheriting a law. Such as Moses gave on Mount Sinai, we are inheriting Mount Zion. We are inheriting the the forgiveness of our sins, the the adoption as sons of God, the the gift of living in the presence of God with all those who have been made holy forever, with angels and with the the firstborn, that is those who are adopted by God, those who have been made perfect. We're entering into the holy assembly of the glorified people of God. to be cleansed forever by the blood of Jesus and to be with Jesus face to face. And that is such a greater treasure than what Esau despised, which was a birthright, but we have such greater something to not despise. In fact, it's said here to be the unshakable kingdom. The kingdom that cannot be shaken. That's what we're receiving. And so if we treasure it, we'll do Two things. We'll not despise it, obviously. We'll not sell it cheap for the world's approval. Like what is that even worth? But we will also, in humility, in gratitude, in reverence and awe, we will worship God. And not refuse what he calls us to endure. That's Hebrews 12. That's a great chapter. If I were to summarize it. Very briefly, I've already tried to. It's such a powerful full chapter, but I would say this. If Jesus is that great and worthy as the author and perfector of our faith, If the kingdom he has secured for us to inherit is that great as an unshakable kingdom If the company of the redeemed that we are being welcomed into as holy children of God is that wonderful, then pressing on until we reach home oughta be worth enduring anything. It ought to be worth putting up with, going through, persevering, holding on in hope through anything because of the joy that has been set before us. If Jesus can endure the cross for the joy set before Him, we can endure our much lighter and much easier cross for the joy set before us. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we need this vision before us every day. It is It is so easy for us to just look at the world and be sucked into thinking that this is what really matters and this is what really lasts. And we need to be accepted here, and we need to be prosperous here, and to be blind to that which is true and good and right and eternal and beautiful. Open our eyes. Help us to see. Help us to live for. Help us to walk in the light of the kingdom we are receiving, the king we've been adopted by. The blessing that is ours in Jesus. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that's Hebrews chapter 12. We're going to jump back to 2 Chronicles tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. And I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.