Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 546 and we're starting the book of Hebrews. Yay, I love Hebrews. Um Very excited to be spending time in this book over the coming weeks. Of course, we'll be in our normal pattern of being a chapter in Hebrews and then two more in 1 Chronicles and then back to Hebrews. So it'll be it'll be spread out. Uh the 13 chapters of Hebrews will be spread out over several weeks. But excited to be digging into it today. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we get into this wonderful book. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for the book of Hebrews and for all that it teaches us about Christ. And what you have done for us in and through him, we pray that you would write Hebrews on our hearts, that Christ would be deeply rooted in our hearts by faith, and that we would live. in in love and by faith and in gratitude for Christ and all that he is and all that he's done and is doing and will do for us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Hebrews chapter 1, you see the heading there. The Supremacy of God's Son. That's an ESV heading. That's a very good heading And you can also see a little bit in the graphic here, what we have is the Ark of the Covenant sort of stylistically displayed there by the ESV Crossway Artists. And that's showing us Christ. as really the fulfillment of uh the ceremonial law, the sacrificial system, the the priesthood, uh and and the Old Testament covenant promises. So this is what we're going to be looking at in the book of Hebrews, how Christ fulfills what God gave Israel in the Old Testament. All right. Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels, as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. For to which of the angels did God ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you? Or again, I will be to him a father. And he shall be to me a son. And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, let all God's angels worship him Of the angels, he says, he makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire. But of the sun, he says, your throne, O God, is for ever and ever, the sceptre of uprightness. is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. And You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands. They will perish, but you remain. They will all wear out like a garment, like a robe, you will roll them up like a garment, they will be changed, but you are the same, and your years will have no end. And to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation? That's Hebrews chapter 1. Hebrews chapter 1 opens with a wonderful introduction, these first four verses of Hebrews. It's been called by some the greatest introduction to a book or introduction uh to a document ever in terms of how much rich doctrine and gospel truth and uh Christ-centered glory is packed into a relatively short space. We get the whole scope of redemptive history Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. That's a sort of way of casting a net over the whole of the Old Testament. So all the dreams and visions and prophecies and poetry and history that comprises the totality of God's working among his people for hundreds and hundreds of years. is summarized here as long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But here's the contrast. In these last days, and we are indeed living in the last days and have been ever since Pentecost, in these last days, He has spoken to us by His Son. The Son is the superior and final word of God. He's the word of God made flesh. He's the word of God made human and stepped into our world. as John 1 tells us. So there's echoes of parallels between John 1 and Hebrews 1 here in that the final word, the word of God made flesh, the final word from the Father is the Son. Who is this son? He's the heir of all things, and he's also the one through whom God created the world. So that takes us all the way back to Genesis 1, which John 1 would also do, point us back to Genesis 1. He's the word through whom God created the world. When God spoke, let there be light. It was the Word is Jesus, the Word of God, the eternal. powerful, divine, in nature word of God is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one through whom the Father created the world, and he's also the one who's appointed to be the heir of all things. And that's why at the end of Revelation, Jesus can say, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the one through whom the Father created the world, and the one who is the heir of all things at the end of the world. What else can we say about this Son? He is the radiance of the glory of God. Jesus is the outshining. of the glory of God. We don't see the glory of God. The glory of God is something that no human being can possibly look on. What we see is how the glory of God has has radiated into the world. And that is through Jesus Christ. Just as when we look outside, Uh the sun has come out. It stopped raining for a little bit, and the sun has come out and it's reflecting off of our van in the driveway, right into my eyes This is the the glory, that's the radiance of the glory of the sun. The sun has its kind of glory, as 1 Corinthians 15 would tell us. There's different degrees The sun is a heavenly body that has a type of glory, and the radiance of its glory is the sunlight that reaches our world. That brings life to everything. And so God has an eternal and unapproachable glory, and the radiance of his glory, that which shines on his creation into the world, is his son Jesus Christ. Which means he's divine in nature. He is God because he's the radiance of the glory of God. Just as I would look out there and say, that's the sunlight And of course I mean something distinct from the the sun itself. It's the sunlight, but it is the sun, right? The sun is shining. It's the radiance of the glory of the sun, and that's Jesus. And the exact imprint of his nature, the exact imprint. of his nature. Man was made in the image of God. Adam and Eve created innocent in the image of God. innocent and yet immature, they were not yet perfected, they were not yet mature. Jesus is the perfected, matured Tried and tested exact imprint of the nature of God. He is the perfect Imago-Dei, image of God made perfect, which is part of what is going to be explored in Hebrews Not only that, not only is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, which means he's true God and true perfect man, but he also upholds the universe by the word of his power. He is the one who sustains everything in the whole universe. Galaxies and nebulae and stars and planets. And everyone in the world and everything on the world is sustained by the word of Jesus' power. That's who he is. And what a statement of who he is. After making purification of sin, so this is what he's done. We talk about the person and the work of Jesus. The person of Jesus is Radiance of the glory of God, exact imprint of his nature, the one who upholds the universe by his power. The work of Jesus is after making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. having become as much superior to angels as the name that he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. So Jesus has made, he has made purification for sins. This is going to be a major theme in Hebrews because we're going to be taking a look at the fact that all of the sacrifices and all of the ceremonies that were given by God to his people under the old covenant could never actually make purification for sins and that's why they had to keep being repeated. But Jesus, he made purification for sins, and then he sat down, which is something that priests were never allowed to do. in the tabernacle or the temple, they could never sit down because their work was never done. While they were on duty, they were on their feet and they were offering sacrifices. And they were praying and they were burning incense and they were putting out showbread. They were continually serving because the service was never done. But Jesus service as high priest to make purification for sins is finished. He said on the cross, it is finished. That means all of your sins. Past, present, future, all of my sins, all of the sins of all of God's people for all time have been paid for and have been cleansed. And so Jesus sits as the victorious king, as the finished high priest, he sits at the right hand of the majesty on high. and he has become as much superior to the angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. There was a a bit of an obsession among both Jewish people and among Greco-Roman people with the fascination with angels. and angels as intermediaries between the divine and the human. Well here Hebrews is saying, Jesus is as much superior to the angels. As the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. They are messengers of God. He is the Son of God. They are servants of God and servants of those who inherit salvation. He is the the radiance of the glory of God. He is the upholder of the universe. He is the purifier of sins. He is the Savior and and king over his people. And so the rest of Hebrews is a a collection of of quotations from the Old Testament that are all supporting This opening claim that Jesus is far superior to the angels. And we're not going to have time to go through this whole thing. Believe me, I could be here in Hebrews chapter one for several hours giving you things that are wonderful in this chapter, but we're not gonna have time for that in this devotional setting. So what we want to see is just that the sun is so much greater. Jesus is the Son of God. God is his Father. The angels are called to worship him. The angels are our servants. They are they are ministers, but Jesus is the King whose throne is forever, who rules over the kingdom with a scepter of uprightness. And He's the one who actually laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning and everything in the world is going to wear out. But one when Jesus comes again, he's going to roll up this creation like a worn-out garment and it's going to be completely changed. But Jesus will remain. the glorious King of Kings forever. He's already reigning at the right hand of the Father until his enemies are made a footstool, but he will continue to reign forever and ever. As far as angels, what do angels do? What are they there for? They're actually sent to serve us who are going to inherit salvation. So angels, rather than being worshipped by us or adored by us as higher than us, are actually appointed by God to serve us, even though they are glorious and mighty. And spiritual. They're servants, ministering servants, to serve for our sake. That's a wonderful blessing. Jesus is the superior Son of God He is the king, he is the priest, he is the final word, he is the all-supreme one and the one we need. Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you for Jesus, our great high priest, thank you for Jesus, the final word from you. Thank you for Jesus, our conquering and eternal King. We have everything we need in Jesus Christ. Convince us of that, that we might live that way. As your dearly loved, adopted, and redeemed children. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Hebrews chapter one tomorrow. We are going to be back in First Chronicles, and I do hope that you have a very blessed day in the Lord. Lord.