Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 552 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We're in Hebrews chapter three. Um still here at the Lake House in North Georgia on vacation. By the time this releases, I'll actually be back home. But um Pre-recording a couple of days ahead of time. So uh Hebrews chapter three is just a beautiful chapter about the supremacy of Christ. And uh let's just go to the Lord and ask his help as we look to this chapter today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the Book of Hebrews, for what it teaches us about your Son, who is so much better than we deserve, and so much better than we think. And so much better than we understand, He is the supreme and sufficient one. We pray that you would write Jesus on our hearts more deeply as we spend time in your word together this morning. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let me adjust my camera just a little bit. That's better. Okay. Hebrews chapter three. Therefore, holy brothers, you who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession. who was faithful to him who appointed him, just as Moses was also faithful in all God's house For Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, as much more glory as the builder of a house has more honor than the house itself. For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God. Now Moses was faithful in all God's house as a servant, to testify to the things that were to be spoken later. But Christ is faithful over God's house as a son, and we are his house, if indeed we hold fast our confidence. and are boasting in our hope. Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, today, if you hear his voice, Do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of testing in the wilderness, where your fathers put knee to the test. and saw my works for forty years. Therefore I was provoked with that generation and said, They always go astray in their heart. They have not known my ways. As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God. But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. For we have come to share in Christ if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end. As it is said, today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest? But to those who were disobedient, so we see that they were not able to enter because of unbelief. Hebrews chapter 3 said it's a beautiful chapter, and it is, but it's also a challenging chapter. There are sections in Hebrews that are just wonderfully encouraging and majestic with the description of the supremacy of Christ. And that's the opening chapters here of Hebrews chapter 3. And then there are parts of Hebrews that are really challenging because they call us to take the supremacy of Christ seriously and to hold fast to him by faith and not to waver. See the background of Hebrews, we haven't talked that much about this, but the background of Hebrews is that it was written To a group of believers in Jesus who had come from a Jewish background. So these are Jewish believers in Jesus, and in the face of rising persecution They are tempted to abandon following Jesus and just go back to being Jewish, just go back to the synagogue and renounce Jesus and go back to Moses and to the law. And so they need to know two things. They need to know one, that Jesus is the superior one and the sufficient one. He's the one. that the law and the prophets are pointing to, and so he's so much better than the law and the prophets. But the other thing they need to know is that it is dangerous to walk away from Jesus. You cannot simply walk away from Jesus without significant consequence. And so these two themes are shown throughout Hebrews, and when we're emphasizing the supremacy and the sufficiency of Christ Our hearts sing and we're just wonderfully uh encouraged. But when those warning passages come, we can feel those and we can say, oh no, that feels very serious and very heavy, and it is very serious. Denying him, walking away from him, has serious consequences of an eternal nature. So let's dig in here to Hebrews 3. He says, therefore, holy brothers who share in a heavenly calling. Holy brothers, he calls them, those who are set apart by God and for God, those who share in the heavenly calling. He's talking to Christians. He's talking to those who are in the church, those who profess the name of Jesus. And he says we need to consider Jesus. That means we need to fix our eyes on Jesus. as he's going to say later in Hebrews chapter 12. We need to look to Jesus. We need to think about Jesus. We need to meditate on Jesus. Because Jesus is our salvation. We need to we need to consider him. We need to look at him. We need to think about him. We need to He's not saying consider as in why don't you give this a chance? These are already people who profess to be followers of Jesus. But you see, sometimes you can be a Christian for a long time. And you can get distracted by other things by differences between denominations or secondary doctrine or circumstantial problems or cultural pressures. And you can start looking around at all of the other things. And Hebrews is calling us back to a focus on Jesus. And who he is. He's the apostle and high priest of our confession. What does that mean? He's an apostle. I thought the apostles were like Peter, James, and John. And apostle means a sent one Jesus was sent from heaven to earth to be our Savior. He's the one sent to save us, and now he's the one who is in heaven as the high priest. of our confession. So he was sent from heaven to earth to save us, and then he's now been sent ahead of us into heaven, where he sits at God's right hand and he hears us when we cry to him. He was faithful to God the Father who appointed him, just as Moses was faithful in all of God's house You see, these Hebrew background Jewish believers would say, well, we're going back to to Moses and the law, and these are things from God. So God can't possibly dis be displeased with us. If we go back to the things that God has given us, well, God has also given us Jesus. He's sent by the Father. He was appointed by the Father. He was faithful to the Father. But here's the difference. Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, as much more glory as the builder of a house has more honor than the house itself. Moses is a very important Pillar within the house of God. He has a very prominent place within the house of God. He wrote the first five books of the Bible. He he led the people of God out of Egypt by the hand of God. He he was the one through whom God gave the law. He was a very important place as a part of God's house. But Jesus is the builder of God's house. And so he has so much more glory because he's the one who's who's built it all. You can probably see over my shoulder behind me the lake house. This is the lake house that we come to once or twice a year. And uh it's a wonderful place. And there are certain favorite parts of the lake house. There's a porch swing. There are these um Adirondack style rocking chairs. There's a fire pit with Adirondack chairs around it. There's There's some fireplaces, there's a a fire pit, there's this this is a boat dock that sits out on the water. There are certain favorite places within the house. But the person who designed and built the house overall is obviously the person who gets credit and who gets honor for designing and building such such a wonderful house. We are the house of God. We are his house. We are each a stone, a brick, a pillar, a paver within the house of God. But the builder of the house is Jesus. And the builder of all things is God, of course. And that's another way of saying that Jesus is God, because the builder of all things is God, and Jesus is the builder of God's house, which means he is God He's the one through whom God is building his house. And so we are his house. And that's a great honor and a blessing. And then the little word if. Most powerful two-letter word in the English language, if. We are his house, if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our hope. So from the superiority and the sufficiency of Jesus now we go to the call upon us that we need to hold fast. We need to persevere in faith in Jesus. We believe in the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints That is that those who are holy brothers, as verse 1 says, those who really are set apart by God and for God will persevere in their faith. to the end. Being kept in that faith by God's grace, yes, but God's grace and our perseverance, they are Two halves of the same hole. It's his grace that keeps us and as we hold fast our confidence and our boasting and our hope. And then he quotes from Psalm 95, which is actually going to be our sermon text for this coming Sunday. So very appropriate we have Psalm 95 here, which It will be preached this coming Sunday. Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. On the day of testing in the wilderness, where your fathers put me to the test and saw my works for forty years. Therefore I was provoked with that generation. and said, they always go astray in their hearts. They have not known my ways. As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Psalm 95 here is talking about the Exodus generation. And we know that of the Exodus generation, only Joshua and Caleb two. out of that vast multitude of hundreds of thousands of people too persevered and made it into the promised land by God's grace. The rest of them Fell in the wilderness. And God was provoked with that generation. Why? Because they didn't believe. They were called, yes. They were God's holy people, yes. But they did not believe. They had evil, unbelieving hearts that led them to fall away. from the living God, to to to doubt God's ability to be able to provide for them. They had seen the ten plagues, they had seen the parting of the Red Sea. But when it came time to go up, when the spies were sent out from Kadesh Barnia, and they came back with their report, and the decision was to be made, are we going to trust the Lord and go up? They said, Mm, no, I don't think we will. God can't do it. There's too many giants in the land. God can't. So, Christian. If you're a Christian, you've seen By faith, the Lord work in your life. You've heard him call you to himself. You have seen the beauty of the gospel. And yet there is a temptation to all of us to get again to get our eyes off of Jesus and onto the circumstances of the world and to think there are giants in the land. And there are. There's opposition, and there is. And then we think, oh, God can't do it. God can't lead his church and preserve his church and bless his people through this kind of culture, can he? Of course he can. Of course he can. And so verse 14 says, We have come to share in Christ if indeed we hold. Our original confidence firm to the end. I want us to be very careful here about what the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints is and isn't. It's a biblical doctrine, and it's the doctrine that says those who are truly saints, those who are truly God's holy people will persevere to the end. You cannot lose your salvation. If you have salvation in Jesus Christ, you cannot lose it. But apostasy is real. Falling away from the living God is real So what do we do with those people who walk away from the Lord? Those who do not hold their original confidence firm to the end, those who do not Believe and persevere. Well look at verse 14. For we have come to share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end. So let's do a thought exercise. What if we don't hold our original confidence firm to the end? Well then, what would be true is we have not come to share in Christ. We have not come to share in Christ if we do not hold our original confidence firm to the end. Does that mean that we we came to share in Christ and then we lost it? No, it means we never had a true Faith that shared in Christ. Go back to verse 6 with me and look at this. And we are his house if we hold fast our confidence and our boasting and our hope. What if we don't hold fast? If we don't hold fast, then we are not his house. You don't stop becoming his house, but you never were his house. And so those who walk away from the Christian Those who commit apostasy, those who fall away because of evil and unbelieving hearts, as verse twelve says, leading them to fall away from the living God. We have to say that despite what their confession was, despite what their outward appearance was, They were never God's house, and they never shared in Christ. Now, could they come to share in Christ later? Yes. As long as they're alive in this world, there's still hope. So we can still pray. pray for them, but we have to treat them as those who never really had saving faith. You don't have salvation and then lose it. If you have salvation, if you are God's house, if you have come to share in Christ, then you will Hold fast that confidence to the end. You will persevere in the faith. And if you don't If you abandon Christ, if you deny the Lord, if you walk away, it doesn't mean you sin just in the ways that people sin. You you you tell a lie, you lust, you even commit adultery, you you steal. Could even commit murder. It's not talking about sin like that. It's talking about an abandonment of the faith, an abandonment of Christ, a walking away from Christ and His people and the house of God. If you do that Then you didn't have saving faith. You had a profession of faith, you had the appearance of faith. But it wasn't true in Saving faith and that's what we have to understand about people who walk away from Christianity. Now they can come back and praise the Lord Many times they do come back. There's been this trend in recent years, a fad trend of deconstruction, deconstructing my faith. Which is just to say, I think I'm smarter than God and I'm gonna pick apart his word and I'm gonna decide that while I believe there's some sort of God who made all of this It's not the God revealed in the Bible. That is called apostasy. Deconstruction has a an older name for it called apostasy. You're walking away from the faith. Those who deconstruct their faith never had a saving faith to begin with. But praise God. They can come to salvation in Jesus. They can come to have a saving faith that they did not have. And they'll describe it as coming back to Jesus or coming back to the faith. And that's true. They are coming back to Jesus and back to the faith. Hopefully this time with a true and saving faith that they didn't have the first time. Is incompatible with salvation. We are saved by faith, by a persevering faith. And if we have an evil heart of unbelief It shows that that saving faith was never genuinely in us. Because God says in Philippians 1 that he who began a good work in us will be faithful to complete it. in the day of Christ Jesus. If you have saving faith, you can have confidence. You don't need to live in fear. Am I going to fall away? Am I not going to fall away? The solution is simple. Consider Jesus. Focus on Jesus. Praise Jesus. Give thanks for Jesus. Do we sometimes have doubts and questions about certain things that we read in the Bible? Sure. That's not unbelief. That is Part of being a sinful human being, part of having a fleshly nature, part of struggling with intellectual weakness and a failed understanding. But what we need to do with those things is take them to Jesus. And look to him and trust in him. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is living and active and powerful. Thank you for your word made flesh, the Lord Jesus Christ, who is strong to save. Help us to consider Jesus, to focus on Jesus, to look to Jesus, and to trust in Jesus alone. We all struggle with doubt because of our flesh, because of this noisy world that never stops whispering and screaming its lies to us. Help us to hold fast. To the one who's holding fast to us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today for Hebrews chapter 3 and tomorrow. Should be back in my own house, my normal place, and we'll go back to First Chronicles. Have a blessed day in the Lord.