Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 592 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. And we're wrapping up the book of Hebrews today. We come to Hebrews chapter 13. Now what's interesting about Hebrews is that it reads like a sermon. that was then sent as a letter. There's no typical letter opening. The opening of the of Hebrews reads like the opening of a sermon, and the whole body of the text reads very much like a sermon. But then at the close, we have some greetings that are put on to the end of it, like a sermon was taken and written down and then sent as a um a letter. So where we are here in Hebrews 13 is a combination of the the closing application. Like here's the very practical application that we need to take away from everything we've learned in this book and then the greetings at the very end. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into this important chapter. Father, thank you for the book of Hebrews. Thank you for what we've been learning over these past several weeks as we've been in this book now for a couple of months. We pray that you would seal its message on our hearts and that you would help us to live in the light of the greatness of Christ. and what he has called us to in his unshakable kingdom. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So if Christ is superior and sufficient, if he is the fulfillment of everything, and he is our salvation and our great high priest, and if he is bringing us into his unshakable kingdom as brothers and sisters in Christ, how should we then live? How should our lives be different from the world around us? Let's hear Hebrews 13 Let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Remember those who are in prison as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous Keep your life free from the love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, I will never leave you or forsake you, so we can confidently say, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear. What can man do to me? Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you the Word of God, consider the outcome of their way of life and imitate their faith Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Do not be led away by diverse and strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods, which have not benefited those devoted to them. We have an altar, from which those who serve the tent have no right to eat. For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy places by the high priest as a sacrifice for sin are burned outside the camp. So Jesus also suffered outside the gate In order to sanctify the people through his own blood. Therefore, let us go to him outside the camp, and bear the reproach he endured. For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come Through him, then, let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. Obey your leaders. and submit to them. For they are keeping watch over your souls as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy, and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you. Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience, desiring to act honorably in all things. I urge you the more earnestly to do this in order that I may be restored to you. the sooner. Now may the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, By the blood of the eternal covenant equip you with everything good, that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. I appeal to you, brothers. Bear with my word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly You know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom I shall see you if he comes soon. Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those who come from Italy send your greetings. Grace be with all of you. That's the conclusion of this wonderful book of Hebrews. And really the sermon itself ends with this benediction. And if you go to Forest Hill, you know this is my favorite benediction to use at the end of the worship service. Uh each almost every one of the letters uh in the New Testament ends with some kind of benediction. The briefest one here is one that's pretty standard. among New Testament letters, and that is grace be with all of you, or sometimes it's the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of you. That's the sort of standard benediction, but there's a benediction that ends the sermon in verses 20 and 21. which is the longer benediction, and then there's the shorter benediction that ends the letter. So you see it's a sermon that was kind of turned into a letter. He even calls it in verse 22, my word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly. word of exhortation here means basically it's a sermon that he has written out to them. So what's the application of the sermon? Again, this is in the light of all that Christ is, all that he has done. All that He has given to us, all that He is doing now for us, all that He has promised us in the future, in light of all of that, the surpassing greatness of Christ and His kingdom, we are to love one another. Wasn't that like a centrally important command that Jesus gave right at the end of his earthly ministry? The last night he was with his disciples, he said, A new commandment I give to you that you love one another even as I have loved you. Doesn't 1 John tell us that that's an essential mark of being a believer that we love one another. So let brotherly love continue. And part of what this means is to not neglect to show hospitality to strangers. This is a practice of the early church that is so much neglected in our modern world, and that is if visiting Christians from out of town were coming into town on travel They would stay with other Christians. They would put them up in their home. They wouldn't get a hotel. They would stay with other Christians and they would worship with them in their churches and that was a practice that really was throughout most of church history. It wasn't until fairly modern times that now if you're a Christian you go visit some other place, you might go visit a church on Sunday. But you're certainly not going to call up the pastor of a church and say, hey, are there any families in your church that I could stay with while I'm in town for this conference or this convention or this business meeting? You just go get a hotel room paid for by your company. I understand it's a different world we live in. So hospitality though means we are brothers and sisters. Even if we are strangers to one another, we are in Christ and we are brothers and sisters and we are to love one another. Even those who are imprisoned and being mistreated, we are to remember them. We are to pray for them. We are to sympathize with them. So the persecuted church around the world should be on our hearts and minds And we should take action where we can to help relieve their suffering. We should honor marriage. And one of the key reasons why we should honor marriage is that marriage is the great earthly picture God has given us. of the relationship between Christ and his church. So if we value Christ and His church, we want the earthly picture of Christ and His Church to be held in honor among all. Marriage should be highly valued. It's a sign of a sickening and decaying society that marriage is not held in honor. among all and that in the world the normal pattern now uh for people who are not christians and who are not actively involved in the church the normal pattern now is you meet someone that you're interested in You start dating them, you start sleeping with them, then you might move in with them, then you might have a baby with them, and then you might later think about getting married. Like that's so backward, so upside down, so wrong, such a contradiction, the commitment The bond of love, the covenant is first, and then the expression of that in the marriage bed. The marriage bed should be kept undefiled. We should also be kept undefiled from the love of money. Why do we love money? Well we love money because we see it as our way of security. as our comfort, as our protection, as our peace, as our stability. Hmm. Is it though? No, God is. God has said to us, I will never leave you or nor forsake you, so we can confidently say the Lord is my helper. I will not fear. That's why this is connected with keep your life free from the love of money, because money is the alternate thing we look to to provide us with this with this protection, with this insurance, with this insulation against the world. But we need to look to the Lord for that. As the Lord Jesus said, no one can serve two masters. You cannot serve both God and money. Remember your leaders. We're part of an unshakable kingdom. We have leaders within the church, and they're sinners like we are, but they are people who are a little further along. in the Christian journey and they are put into positions of responsibility. Um we want to uh We want to be a blessing to them, and we want to listen to them and we want to imitate their way of faith. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. So for me, when I read verses 7 and 8, part of what I take from that It might just be my personal inclination here, but when it says, Remember your leaders, consider the outcome of their way of life, imitate their faith, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Some of our leaders in the church are have been dead for hundreds of years. Some of the great Puritans, some of the great reformers, some of the great church fathers These are men we should study church history and read great Christian biographies because they are also our leaders and we can consider the outcome of their way of life even better because we know the end of the story and Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today. and forever. So diverse and strange teachings, new things that come into the church that haven't been taught before, that are that are divisive, just stay away from those things. Food is not what makes us strong and holy That's been a strange teaching in the church from the very beginning that somehow what you eat or don't eat will make you strong or weak spiritually or holy or unholy spiritually. It's just not true What we eat spiritually is Christ Jesus Himself, who suffered for us as the sacrifice for our sins. Spiritually, we are strengthened when our souls feed on Christ. And that is what should be happening in the Lord's Supper Again, other sort of food requirements that people put in there is not something that God has for his people in the New Covenant age. And as he reflects on Christ's suffering for us, and reflects on the fact that Christ suffered outside the gate, We need to go to him. Jesus said, take up your cross and follow me. So we need to go to him, go to Jesus outside the camp. That means We need to be okay with being rejected by the world. Again, remember who this letter was written to. It's written to Jewish people who've been kicked out of their synagogues, who've been ostracized from the Jewish community. and who are tempted to deny Jesus or hide their Christian faith or just go back to the old way because they want to be back in the city. They want to be back in the company. They want to be back in the inner circles. of social relationships that they had before. No, we have no abiding city here. We have no lasting city here. We are seeking the city that is to come. And so we need to go to Christ and be willing to be rejected by the world. We need to be willing to say I have no real home in this culture. I don't fit into any of the categories or the camps or the circles. I am with Jesus Outside the gate. I am with Jesus and having no lasting city here and seeking the city that is to come. And as we do so, we continually praise God because of all the goodness that He's given us in Christ, and we continually do good to others. God is pleased with that kind of sacrifice. Praising him for all that he's done and sharing the good that he's given us with others. He comes back in verse 17 to our leaders. And not only do we need to imitate their faith, but we need to submit to them. We need to realize that they're the ones keeping watch over our souls. If you are in a church where you have elders or you're at Forest Hill Presbyterian, pray for your elders Because they are to keep watch over your soul. They have to give an account before God. They pray for you on a regular basis. We as elders, when we get together, we pray for you. And we need to pray for you even more faithfully. So tell us how we can be praying for you. When we ask you, how can we be praying for you? Don't just blow it off. Don't just say, oh, we're fine. We don't need anything right now. Tell us how we can pray for you. We love you. We want to cover you in prayer. We want to give an account. We want to lead you well. Pray for us. The author of Hebrew says it, I say it, pray for us. We want to have a clear conscience. We want to act honorably in all things. things, but it's the grace of God that allows that to happen. So pray for us. And then the great benediction. It's just so packed. Someday I'll preach a sermon on this benediction because every single phrase is so rich with meaning. It really is the perfect benediction for the book of Hebrews. Jesus Christ, the great shepherd of the sheep, our great high priest, by the blood of the eternal covenant, has brought us peace with God, so that God is the God of peace to us. He is our peace. And through Jesus Christ, he equips us with everything good that we may do his will. We are called to obey, we're called to do good works, but it's only possible as God works in us. that which is pleasing in his sight. And so we work because God works in us. We do because God has done for us. We give because God has first given to us. And it is all sufficient and full in Jesus. Jesus Christ. And we need to hear the Word of God. And we need to pray. And we need to love God's people. And we need to keep believing in Jesus our Savior. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, your word is so wonderful. Every part of it is wonderful. We thank you for it. We ask that you would write Hebrews on our hearts in such a way that we would love Jesus. with a depth of knowledge and appreciation for all that he is and all that he's done for us, all that he is doing for us, all that he will do for us in the future, because your promises will not fail. Help us to love your people. We're called to be a part of this family. Help us to love our wives and husbands and to hold marriage in honor. Help us to honor our leaders within the church. Help us to show hospitality to brothers and sisters in Christ. Help us to serve in whatever way you call us to serve with eagerness. To give you glory. Father, thank you for all that you are and all that you've done. Thank you for calling us to life, giving us a kingdom and an inheritance that nothing in this world can take away. Help us to press on believing in Jesus and serving Him day by day until we're face to face and home at last. We look forward to that day. We can't wait to enter into the city that you are building. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Hebrews tomorrow. Back to Second Chronicles. Have a blessed day in the Lord.