Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Demel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 574 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, one chapter at a time. And today brings us to Hebrews chapter 8, where we see Jesus, the mediator of the better covenant that is made in his blood. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to His Word today. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. Thank you for your presence with us. Thank you for the privilege of being able to gather and study your word day by day. We pray that That you would bless us in our understanding of your word, that you would write your word on our hearts, and that you would show us Jesus so that we by faith might love Him and follow Him more closely. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Hebrews chapter eight. Now the point in what we are saying is this. We have such a high priest Priest, one who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the majesty in heaven, a minister in the holy places, in the true tent that the Lord set up, not man. For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices, thus it is necessary for this priest also to have something to offer. Now, if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, since there are priests who offer gifts according to the law. They serve a copy and shadow of the heavenly thing For when Moses was about to erect the tent, he was instructed by God saying, See that you make everything according to the pattern that was shown you on the mountain. But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old, as the covenant he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second. For he finds fault with them when he says, Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord. when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, for they did not continue in my covenant And so I showed no concern for them, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days declares the Lord. I will put my laws into their minds and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they will be my people. And they shall not teach each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest. For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more. In speaking of a new covenant He makes the first one obsolete. And what is becoming obsolete is growing old and ready to vanish away. That's Hebrews chapter eight. Well, we have such a high priest. The author of Hebrews has been unfolding this high priest to us, one who is Not unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, in other words, one who understands what it is to be human and to be beset with weaknesses. He suffered every temptation just as we have, and yet without sin. He never gave in to any of those temptations, so he even knows the intensity of temptation more than we do, because Satan brought all the pressure to bear on Jesus trying to be a very important thing. Get him to cave to temptation, but Jesus stood up under it all. And so he is a sympathetic high priest, he's a faithful high priest, and certainly He is holy, he is undefiled, he is separated from sinners, he is exalted in the heavens, he is seated at the right hand of the majesty. He is a high priest who has finished the work of making purification for sins, as the opening of Hebrews said, and as we learned again last time in Hebrews. Hebrews 7. He finished it. You know, the earthly priests they keep making sacrifice after sacrifice after sacrifice because the work is never done. But his work is finished through the once-for-all sacrifice that he has made. So we have such a high priest seated at the right hand of the throne of majesty in heaven Just verse 1 of Hebrews 8 should bring us tremendous encouragement. Whenever we are weak, whenever we are tempted, whenever we stumble or fall, or are laden down with guilt and shame, we have such a high High priest, the one who has made purification for sins, the one who sympathizes with our weaknesses, the one who ever lives to make intercession for us, the one who is exalted to the heavens. And where does he have his high priestly ministry? It's not in an earthly tabernacle or tent, but it is in the true tent that the Lord set up. So here the author of Hebrews is contrasting how much better Jesus is as a high priest because of the greater promises. of the covenant that he establishes and the greater place where he ministers, the greater sanctuary where he ministers. So first he talks about the sanctuary in Verses three to five, and then he talks about the better promises in verse six, and that's where we pick up uh this wonderful quote from Jeremiah, that's an extended section. So first of all, he is ministering in a better sanctuary. He's not a high priest on earth. If he had been a high priest on earth, he wouldn't have even been qualified to be a high priest because he's not of the tribe of Levi. He's a But the idea that there is a heavenly sanctuary is found even in the instructions that God gave to Moses about building the tabernacle, because God told him, make it according to the pattern that was shown you on the mountain. So on the mountain of God, uh where Moses received the law, he was shown a pattern. The pattern he was shown it is a glimpse into the heavenly sanctuary. And so he makes it according to that pattern. And when we studied the tabernacle and the temple when we were going through the books of Moses, we saw that everything about that layout was very intentionally designed to teach about the gospel and about God's holiness and our sin and what we need before God, what we need from God. And so Jesus is in the real place. He's actually before the throne of God, not just the earthly representation of that that was contained in the Ark of the Covenant. But he really is before the throne of God. And he doesn't just go there one day a year. He goes there all the time. He's there. He sits at God's right hand before the throne, continuing to live, to make intercession session for us. And so he's in this better place. But then there's also better promises. And this is where we get into some language in verses 7 and 8 that we need to be very careful with. So first of all, in verse 6, we're told that Christ has a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old, as the covenant that he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises. And then verse 7, if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second. And that might cause us to think, wait a minute, why would God give them a faulty covenant? Well, the fault was not found in the covenant that God gave, but in the hearts of the people. with whom he made it. Because verse 8 says, For he finds fault with them when he says, Behold, the days are coming. So the first covenant, the old covenant, the Mosaic Covenant was insufficient for salvation. It was inadequate to save people, not because there was something wrong with either God's holy moral law or with the sacrificial system that he gave or with the the the justice that he laid out uh in his civil administration. Those things came from God and they were good and they were right. The problem was with the hearts of the people. He finds fault with them, with their hearts. And we see that immediately after God makes the covenant with them. And he's leading them through the desert, and he's feeding them with manna from heaven and water from the rock, and he's shown them so many signs and wonders. And yet, what's their response? Unbelief. Hard-heartedness, rebellion. They are stubborn because their hearts need to be changed. And so the new covenant, the better promises of the new covenant involved the inner transformation of every believer, that our hearts would be changed. Now, some people misunderstand this and think in the old covenant God gave us the moral law, but in the new covenant he just gives us grace. And so in the old covenant we lived according to the moral law, but in the new covenant we just live according to grace, which means it doesn't really matter how you live because you're free and you're safe in Jesus, so you can live however you want to live. But that's not the new covenant that God Describes. The new covenant that God describes is to take that moral law of God, to love God and love your neighbor, the Ten Commandments, and to write it on our hearts, to put it in our mind. So it's no longer external to us on tablets of stone that we look at and are unmoved by, but rather it's put inside of us. So that we want to love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and we want to love our neighbors as ourselves. We want to honor God and not worship other gods and honor his day and honor his name. and and and keep the the promises that we've made in our relationships and not steal and not bear false witness and not covet. All of those things, they're now internal to us. They are the desire of our hearts if we've been born again, if we've been regenerated by the Holy Spirit, if we are partakers of the new. And so we walk with God from the heart. And I think that's what's behind this idea in verse 11 that might be confusing. They shall not teach each one his neighbor and each one his It's not that we don't need instruction, but it is rather that instruction is not something that remains external and is imposed by an earthly authority and is only kept up by earthly consequences. You know, it it's internal to us as believers, as those who are born again by the Holy Spirit who have Christ in us, the law of righteousness that is fulfilled in Christ is written on our hearts And so we know the Lord personally, and we want to love and honor and follow the Lord personally. Now, do we do that perfectly? Of course not. Because we still have the old nature, we still have, you know, remnants of abiding sin. We still live in a corrupt and fallen world. We're we're not we're not perfected yet. And yet if we are in Christ, we are truly transformed. And there is a real difference in our hearts. And not only are we truly transformed, but verse 12, how wonderful, we are truly and completely Forgiven. So even as we still struggle with sin, even as we still are beset with sin and weakness, our sins are completely forgiven. They are erased, they are gone, they are cleansed. And so that is the new covenant that we partake in. We partake in a new covenant where we've been changed. Internally, our hearts have been renewed, and we've had the forgiveness purchased by the blood of Christ and the righteousness earned by the perfect life of Christ. That's all given to us as a gift. And we are forgiven, we are holy, we belong to God, God belongs to us. And this is so much better than what God's people had when they had an external law. with an external authority that was the administration of that law. You see this throughout the Old Testament as we've been going through the Old Testament. If a king came up and he was a good and and faithful king, he would impose law and order and Israel would be pretty good. But if there was a bad king that came up and he sort of let the people do whatever they wanted to do, well the people broke loose and did whatever they wanted to do and got involved in all sorts of Of idolatry and immorality. Well, now the Holy Spirit indwells abidingly every believer. And so that doesn't make us perfect, but it does make us holy, and it makes us transformed, and it makes us Different in our nature, in our hearts, than we were before. And the privilege we have is of living and walking in this new covenant under this greater high Priest. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for our great high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus, thank you for fulfilling the law for us. And thank you for cleansing us from all of our sin. Thank you that you ever live to make intercession for us. Holy Spirit, please continue the work that you've begun in making us more like Jesus from the heart. in every aspect of our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for today's devotional. Tomorrow we'll be back in Second Chronicles. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord Lord.