Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word. One chapter per day, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 565. That means it's our 200th day of our second year. So we're 200 days into year two. And we are back in the book of Hebrews today for one of the most challenging chapters in Scripture. And we need the help of the Holy Spirit, so let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, for all of your word. The parts of your word that we find challenging, we need to pay special attention to. We need to be challenged by your word. so that we can know you better and we can turn to you more faithfully. So we pray that you'd speak to us through Hebrews 6 today and write it on our hearts, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Hebrews chapter six. Therefore, let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and go on to maturity. Not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God, and of instruction about washings, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead. and eternal judgment. And this we will do, if God permits, for it is impossible, in the case of those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and have shared in the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the goodness of the Word of God, and the powers of the age to come, and then have fallen away to restore them again to repentance, since they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and holding him up to contempt. For land that has drunk the rain that often falls on it, and produces a crop useful to those for whose sake it is cultivated, receives a blessing from God But if it bears thorns and thistles, it is worthless and near to being cursed, and its end is to be burned Though we speak in this way, yet in your case, beloved, we feel sure of better things, things that belong to salvation. For God is not unjust, so as to overlook your work and the love that you have shown for his name in serving the saints as you still do. And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness. to have the full assurance of hope until the end, so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no one greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself, saying, Surely I will bless you and multiply you. And thus Abraham, having patiently waited, obtained the promise. For people swear by something greater than themselves. And in all their disputes, an oath is final for confirmation. So when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise The unchangeable character of his purpose, he guaranteed it with an oath, so that by two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us. We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. That's Hebrew. Hebrews chapter 6. So Hebrews 6 picks up with the end of Hebrews 5, warning against apostasy. And remember from when we were in Hebrews 5 a couple of days ago, we talked about how the author of Hebrews was frustrated with this group of believers because they were on the verge of committing apostasy seemingly. They wanted to sort of they were thinking about, like I say they wanted to. They were thinking about considering reverting back to Judaism. As a way of escaping from persecution. Being Jewish within the Roman Empire provided a special protection from persecution because the Jewish people were the only people recognized in the Roman Empire who did not have to worship the emperor, who did not have to burn incense and say Caesar is Lord and give that oath of allegiance in that sort of divine way to Caesar. Because all other people of the Roman Empire were polytheistic pagans, they had many different gods. It was expected that they would add the Roman gods, and particularly that they would add the the veneration of Caesar to their pantheon of gods. But the Jews were given an exception because they were monotheistic, they only believed in one God. They were spread throughout the Roman Empire. They were often in positions of power and influence, and so they were given a special pass from this uh obligation to uh venerate the emperor, to say Caesar is Lord. The Christians Many of them initially came out of a Jewish background and would have identified themselves as being Jewish. They would have said, I'm I'm a Jewish believer in in Messiah Jesus, or I'm a Jewish follower of the way. We hear this language from Paul in the book of Acts. But they were kicked out of synagogues. and they were excluded from the Jewish community, and the Jewish people told the Romans, they're not part of us. They believe in some other God named Jesus, so they don't really believe in the one true God that we believe in. So that put Christians in a bad situation because they didn't get the Jewish exemption and they were expected to venerate the Empire. So that was the cause of persecution of Christians in the Roman Empire. And so for these Jewish background Christians if they would stop worshiping Jesus and go back to being Jewish, they would be safe, they would be protected. And the author of Hebrews is astounded that they're even considering this. And he doesn't understand why they don't understand better about the truth of the gospel So at the end of chapter five, he was talking to them about how they really ought to be teachers by now. They really should have solid food. They should be more mature And if you're that mature and you understand Christ that well, then you wouldn't dream about leaving Christ and going back to a Christless Judaism. And so he says in the beginning of chapter 6, let's leave behind these elementary doctrines and let's talk about something else. And look at what he names among the elementary doctrines. Repentance from dead works and faith toward God. That's elementary. You have to repent of your sins and have faith in God. Instructions about washings, that's probably about baptism. The laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment. These are all considered to be Gospel 101 basics. You have to repent of your sins, have faith in God, be baptized. You have to believe in the resurrection of the dead, you have to believe in the judgment to come. So those are basics. But he wants them to move on to understand the the truths about how Christ fulfills every aspect of the the Jewish law, of the Mosaic Law. He wants them to understand how every aspect is uh fulfilled in Christ and how Christ is superior to everything. And so He wants them to see that. And he warns them. Verses 4 through 8 is a very sobering passage. We're going to come back in chapter 10 to another very sobering passage here in Hebrews. It's a warning. It says, if you have been enlightened, if you have tasted the heavenly gift, if you have shared in the Holy Spirit, if you have tasted the goodness of the Word of God and the powers of the age to come. And then you fall away. You commit apostasy from the faith that you professed. You are condemned. It's very, very strong language, and people have debated and discussed what could this be? Is it possible for someone to lose their salvation? No, we know that those who are truly saved, who are really born again and justified, and who are in Christ, will not be lost. We see this in Romans 8, 28 to 30. We see this in John 10, 27 to 30. It is repeated throughout Scripture that if you are a sincere, truly born again, Saving faith, possessing believer who's been justified, regenerated. You've been born again. You're not going to go back to being dead again. You've been justified by faith in Christ. You're not going to go back to being unjustified you have union with Christ and that union is unbreakable. But there are people. There are people. who have been enlightened. They have an understanding of the truth. They've tasted the heavenly gift. I think this is a reference to taking the Lord's Supper. They've partaken of the Lord's Supper They've tasted the goodness in the Word of God. They've shared in the Holy Spirit. Not that the Holy Spirit has personally indwelled them as he does with believers, but they've shared in the presence of the Holy Spirit. present at the Lord's table, present in worship. They've tasted the goodness of the Word of God. They've sat under the preaching of God's word. They've known the truth. They've seen God at work all around them. They've even seen God work in their own lives. Not necessarily savingly here, but If you're in church for a long period of time, you're going to see God at work in undeniable ways. And then if you fall away, if you abandon Christ, What's left? Christ isn't going to be crucified again for you, expecting Jesus to come back again and die on the cross again for your sin. He's already done that once for all. You can't leave Christ and expect to find some other path of salvation, what's really being said here. If you know that Jesus is the only way, truth, and life. If you know that only his sacrifice is for your salvation, if you know that the Holy Spirit is the one who has to make you born again and bring you to Christ, if you've seen and known the truth about Christ and you walk away. Thinking that somehow there's going to be some other way of salvation, some other way of justification. There is no other way. Jesus made the once-for-all sacrifice. We have to believe in Him. You can't take in all the blessings of being in God's people and reject it and expect to still find a way of justification. So it's a sobering warning. It's a warning against apostasy. And apostasy is a very real sin. Today people call it deconstructing their faith. Oh, I've deconstructed my Christian faith, so I no longer believe the Bible is the Word of God. And Jesus is the only way of salvation, I've sort of picked and and and chosen what I believe out of Scripture. I've deconstructed it and made a customized version for myself I still believe in a higher power. I still believe Jesus was a good guy. But I don't think the gospels are accurate, etc. , etc. That's called apostasy. It's falling away from the faith that you once knew and once professed to hold sincerely. Now, after that sobering warning The author of Hebrews says, we're actually confident of better things. Because we've seen enough in you. We've seen your work. We've seen your service to the saints. And so we believe that you are genuinely saved, that you're not going to go down this path, that we're going to see better things, things that belong to salvation in your life. And so we desire that you would earnestly seek to see these better things in your own life. So he's saying to them, we think that you're really believers. We've seen your work. We've seen your service to the saints. You've done it in the past, you're still doing it now. So we believe that you really are saved, and we're expecting to see the things in your life that would accompany salvation, and we want you to be earnest to see those things too. And here's the lesson for us. Genuine Christians desire real spiritual growth. Genuine Christians desire real spiritual growth If you're content to not grow, if you're content to coast or drift or neglect And you don't have an earnestness to attain a full assurance of hope to the end, if you are sluggish, If you are not imitating the mature Christians you see around you and wanting to mature in the Lord, that's not good. That's not normal. That is a failure to thrive, which is the sign of a very serious spiritual malady in your life. And you need to seek the Lord about that, and you need to repent. You need to seek repentance. And you need to seek this earnestness that the author of Hebrews speaks of here in verse 11 and to seek to throw off this sluggishness. And how do we do that? How do we do that? I think the rest of chapter 6 of Hebrews is given to us to show us how we do that. And that is that we remember the promise of God and how it's fulfilled in Christ. And we are sure to anchor our souls to the sure and steadfast anchor who is Jesus Christ. Who has gone as a forerunner on our behalf to the inner place behind the curtain. So remember the promise of God. God said To Abraham, surely I will bless you and multiply you, and through your offspring all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. God's solemn promise to Abraham was kept in Jesus Christ. God didn't break his promise. God can't lie. God took an oath and God kept that oath in Jesus Christ. And so go to Jesus Christ. Trust in Jesus Christ. Remind yourself of the promises that are yes in Jesus Christ. Focus on Jesus Christ. Hold fast to Jesus Christ That is how you overcome that sluggishness and you show the earnestness to get the assurance of hope that will hold you firm till the end. That is how you grow. Let's pray. Father, renew our earnest zeal for spiritual growth. Forgive us for our tendency to be sluggish in spiritual things Rekindle in our hearts a zeal for our Lord and Savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well that is Hebrews chapter 6. I'm so glad that you joined me for that. I hope it was a blessing to you. I know it was to my own heart. It's always a blessing for me to be in God's Word and to be thinking about it. and calling myself to the very same things that I'm calling you to. Tomorrow we'll be back in 2 Chronicles. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the The Lord.