Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Damnell. Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 577 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. And we're back in the book of Hebrews now, Hebrews chapter 9. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into this very important chapter together. Father in heaven, you are so good to us. You bless us each day with life and health and strength. And one of the greatest blessings we have in this life is your word. Which reveals you to us, shows us your heart, shows us your will for us, shows us your gospel, your son. We pray that your Holy Spirit would make our hearts alive to your word. Make our minds able to understand your word. Make our lives responsive to your word. We pray this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Hebrews chapter 9. Now even the first covenant had regulations for worship and an earthly place of holiness for a tent was prepared. The first section in which were the lampstand and the table and the bread of the presence, it is called the holy place. Behind the second curtain was a second section called the Most Holy Place, having the golden altar of incense and the Ark of the Covenant covered on all sides with gold. In which was a golden urn holding the manna and Aaron's staff that budded and the tables of the covenant. Above it were the cherubim of glory, overshadowing the mercy seat. Of these things we cannot now speak in detail. These preparations having thus been made, the priests go regularly into the first section, performing their ritual duties. But into the second only the high priest goes, and he but once a year, and not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people By this, the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first section is still standing, which is symbolic for the present age. According to this arrangement, gifts and sacrifices are offered that cannot perfect the conscience of the worshipper, but deal only with food and drink and various washings regulations for the body imposed until the time of Reformation. But when Christ appeared As a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent, not made with hands, that is not of this creation, he answered once He entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offer himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works? to serve the living God. Therefore, he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance. since a death has occurred that redeemed them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant. For where a will is involved The death of the one who made it must be established. For a will takes effect only at death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive Therefore, not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood, for when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people He took the blood of calves and goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying, This is the blood of the covenant. that God commanded for you. And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship. Indeed Under the law, almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. Thus it was necessary for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these rites, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. For Christ has entered not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things. but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly, as the high priest enters the holy places every year with blood not his own, for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, He has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time. Not to deal with sin, but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him. That is Hebrews chapter 9 in the ESV. Well, this is a very complicated chapter. It's very dense. You may have gotten lost in some of the details. So let's back up and let's consider what we've learned so far in the book of Hebrews. In Hebrews, we're dealing with a group of professing Christians who are from a Jewish background. And they are considering giving up on following Christ and professing Christianity And they figure, well, they're Jewish and they have the Word of God and they have the worship that God set up according to His Word, and they can just go back to that same old pattern of worship that they had before they came to know Christ, before they professed faith in Christ, before they were kicked out of their Jewish synagogues and became part of the church, which is now being persecuted. uh under, you know, Roman rule. So why not just go back? Why not make life easier for themselves and go back? And what's interesting is, among other things, I think Hebrews chapter 9 is good evidence that the book of Hebrews was written Probably preached first as a sermon and then written down in a letter and sent to these uh Jewish background believers because uh the the author was not able to preach it in there in their presence, so he preached it uh and wrote it down and gave it to them. But it was it was preached and delivered before A. D. seventy. Now hang with me for a minute, I'm getting into some history here, but the reason for that is that when he's talking about the Old Testament ceremonial law and the worship in the temple under the Mosaic Law and under the priesthood of Aaron, he's talking about these as present ongoing realities. So there's very good evidence just from this chapter that this was written before A. D. seventy. before the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem in A. D. 70, in the year 70 A. D. , about 40 years after the death and resurrection of Jesus. One full generation later, Jerusalem was conquered by the Romans under Titus and completely destroyed. And the temple was completely overturned. Not one stone was left on another. And if that had already happened before Hebrews 9 was written, certainly the author of Hebrews would have made reference to it. He would have said, that way of worship is over, the temple's destroyed, you can't go back to that way. But he's talking in the present tense as if these things are ongoing. And so that is good evidence that this was written before the year 70 AD, which is good evidence for the early date. uh for the New Testament as this is one of the later books in the New Testament. Uh it's building on a lot of things that are already being taught and spread in the church, and here it is 40 years after the death and resurrection. of Jesus, so much of what we understand is biblical Christianity in the New Testament was really firmly established, written down, and given to the church within that first 40-year period of time, that first full generation. after the death and resurrection of Jesus. And the disciples who would have been teenagers and men in their twenties, perhaps, probably not any older than that. When Jesus died and rose again, they're n it's forty years later and now they're men in their fifties and sixties and and you know with this it's within that period of time. This in fact was probably closer to thirty years after than forty years after. before AD 70. So that's just a little bit of background for the early date of this letter. And so what's going on in this chapter? Well If they want to go back to the Mosaic Law, if they want to go back to the worship that was established by the Word of God under the high priesthood of Aaron, and his descendants, the Levitical system, they need to understand what it was that was being given and why it is that that is not sufficient. So he's already made the case that the tabernacle that was built, the tent was prepared, verse 2. That's a refer a reference to the tabernacle that was built. under Moses by Bezalel and Aaron and uh under that system in Exodus. This tent was prepared, it's a copy of the heavenly. It's a it's a shadow. It's a it's not the actual heavenly sanctuary, but it's being made according to the pattern that was shown to Moses on Mount Sinai. And so it's an earthly Copy of heavenly things. So it is teaching us heavenly things. The biggest takeaway here is that it's teaching us that God is holy. Holy, holy, holy. So in the earthly tabernacle, you had a holy place. That was the sanctuary. was copied in the temple and building form. Behind the veil, which in the holy place was the holy, holy place, the most holy place, holy, holy, holy of holies. But God is holy, holy, holy. So there's the Ark of the Covenant inside, which represents the footstool of God, and God is exalted above that. So He's holy, holy, holy. Get it? How do you approach holiness? You have to be covered, you have to be cleansed. You cannot, as a sinful human being, you cannot just barge into the presence of God and expect to be heard, seen, received. Expect to stand at all before the radiant glory of the holy, holy, holy God, how are you going to have access That's a lot of what God was showing them in the tabernacle in the temple was saying there's got to be a sacrifice, there's got to be blood. The blood has to cleanse, it has to cleanse the worshipers. They cannot come in So, but these rituals were being repeated. They were being done over and over again. They were still ongoing. some fifteen hundred years after they were first given under Moses. And the fact that they were repeated over and over again, the daily sacrifices and the yearly sacrifice on the Day of Atonement, it shows that the the sins of people had not been yet fully covered because there was still a need for the repetition of this cleansing and that the cleansing couldn't actually make you clean on the inside It could only make you clean enough on the outside to have limited access. The limited access is one high priest can go once a year. And always taking blood to atone for his own sins and for the sins of the people. But Christ See, Christ comes, verse 11, as a high priest of the good things that have come, the fulfillment of the earthly shadow. by offering himself as a sacrifice before the actual heavenly throne of God. Jesus did it go as a high priest into the earthly temple in Jerusalem. He died on a cross, and through the eternal spirit, verse 14, through the eternal spirit he offered himself without blemish to God. And so while animal blood had a ceremonially cleansing effect, the blood of goats and bulls, the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctified for the purification of the flesh, verse 13. You see, this animal blood has an effect of ritual cleansing, of ceremonial cleansing, the blood of the Son of God. His own blood secures eternal redemption, verse 12, and purifies our consciences, verse 14. And because he is the better high priest of the better covenant promises, who makes a better offering of himself, not animals, in a better place before the throne of God and not in an earthly copy, because of all of these things He is the mediator of a new covenant. A new and better covenant, so that all those who are called may receive the eternal inheritance. You see, we have a better high priest. He's the Son of God. He's the eternal Son of God. He makes a better sacrifice of his own blood, willing sacrifice of the Son of God, not the unwilling sacrifice of an animal. And he does so in a better place before the throne of God, securing a better redemption, eternal redemption, the purifying of our consciences, and therefore he's the mediator of a better New covenant cleanses us of all of these things that we could not be cleansed by under the old covenant. And then he shifts years in verse 16 from talking about this covenant to talking about a will. And that might have confused you. You might have thought, we're talking about the old covenant and the new covenant and the sacrificial uh ceremonial cleansing versus the true cleansing that the blood of Jesus brings. Why is he now talking about a will? Because a covenant is also known as a testament, like we have our words Old Testament, New Testament And a testament is a word for a will. A covenant i i is is one form that a covenant can take is as a last will and testament that says, Upon my death, this is how the inheritance would be distributed. But you see, for a will, for a last will and testament to be enacted to take effect, it can only take effect at the death. So Moses, when he inaugurated the covenant with God and his people in verse 19, he takes the commandments, the law. And he sprinkles it with the blood of goats and calves with water and scarlet wool and hiss of he sprinkles the blood its the book itself, the book itself, which is the law, the standard, and he sprinkles the people. And he says, This is the blood. Of the covenant that God commanded for you. This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you. Everything had to be purified by blood because for the promises of inheritance, the eternal inheritance. For the promises of the inheritance to be released, blood had to be shed. But ultimately, of course, it wasn't going to be the blood of calves and goats. It was ultimately going to be the blood of the Son of God So this was an earthly copy that was being ceremonially cleansed in this way, but Jesus by his own death Enters into the heavenly sanctuary, securing the internal inheritance for all who belong to him, once for all, it's not repeated sacrifice The Roman Catholic Church has this idea that you reenact the sacrifice of God, of Christ, every time you have the Mass. And you re-offer the sacrifice to God every Mass that is not true. It is a once-for-all at the end of the ages, it is a once-for-all sacrifice. Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many, and now he will appear a second time, not to deal with sin, but to save those who eagerly await him. Jesus has inaugurated the covenant, the testament, the will, in which he receives the inheritance from God the Father. And by offering up his life on our behalf, he, appearing in heaven on our behalf, says, these are going to share in my inheritance with me. I want us to just stop for a minute. We've been talking about a lot of things. Stop for a minute and think about the reality of these truths. Jesus, the spotless Son of God, the precious Lamb of God. Perfect, sinless, holy, offered himself willingly on the cross To be the blood sacrifice to cleanse your conscience and mine To redeem us from the sin that we've committed against God repeatedly and willfully, to cleanse us of all things that keep us from God. and to secure for us an eternal inheritance, an inheritance that he earned. Because he's the Son of God who perfectly obeyed his father. He earned it for himself, and then he gave up his life in order to share that inheritance with us. This is how great Jesus is. He provides for us cleansing, purity. Reconciliation to God, access to God, and an eternal inheritance from God and with God And what we should do is thank God for Jesus and keep trusting in Jesus as we eagerly wait for Him to appear a second time to save us and bring us home to be with himself. So there's our closing question. Are you eagerly waiting for him? And will you be overwhelmed with joy when he appears again, a second time, not to deal with sin, but to save those of us who are eagerly waiting? For him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your Son Jesus Christ, our Savior. There is no other Savior. There is no other Redeemer. There is no other high priest. There is no other sacrifice. There is no other cleansing for sin than what Jesus has offered in Himself on our behalf We thank you. And Lord Jesus, we trust in you. And we eagerly wait for that day when we will see you face to face. Keep us believing and persevering in that faith until that day we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that is Hebrews chapter 9. Tomorrow we'll be back in 2 Chronicles. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.