Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're back in the wonderful book of Hebrews today to learn more about our great high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. Much for our Savior Jesus and thank you for your word that shows Jesus to us so that we can know Him and love Him and trust Him We pray that you would meet with us today as we study your word, write your word on our hearts, change our hearts and minds by your Spirit, help us to see Jesus more clearly, to trust him more deeply, and to follow Follow him more closely, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Hebrews chapter five. For every high priest chosen among men Is appointed to act on behalf of men in relation to God, to offer gifts and sacrifices for sins. He can deal gently with the ignorant and wayward, since he himself is beset with weakness. Because of this he is obligated to offer sacrifice for his own sins, just as he does for those of the people. And no one takes this honor for himself, but only when called by God, just as Aaron was. So also Christ did not exalt himself to be made a high priest, but was appointed by him who said to him, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. As he says also in another place, you are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death. And he was heard because of his reverence. Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek About this we have much to say, and it is hard to explain since you have become dull of hearing, for though by this time you ought to be teachers, You need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk and not solid food. For everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness. since he is a child. But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil. That is Hebrews chapter 5 about our great high priest. Now, it's a wonderful chapter about our great high priest. There are a few things that may be easy to misunderstand. So the beginning of chapter five is telling us that basically what qualifies a high priest to be a good and And faithful high priest is that he has to be appointed, not he doesn't take it for himself, but he's called by God, appointed and anointed by God. And then he deals gently with the ignorant and the wayward, and he offers up to God right gifts and sacrifices. So Jesus qualifies in all these ways. Jesus was made a high priest by the Lord, who said to him, You are my son, today I have begotten you. This is the man Christ Jesus, who is the Son of God in human flesh, who was also told you are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. He is one who deals gently with us, and we're told this at the end of chapter 4. You'll notice in the ESV, that the end of chapter 4 and the beginning of chapter 5 are all one section. Um it's not divided where the chapter break is. But we have a high priest who's not who's we do not have a high priest who is unable to say With our weaknesses. A double negative means we have a high priest who is able to sympathize with our weaknesses. He has been tempted in every respect as we are. He was tempted with the flesh. When he was told to turn the stone into bread and to satisfy his appetite for food. He was tempted with lust of the eyes when he was shown the kingdoms of the world and all their glory and wealth, and told all this can be yours if you bow He was tempted with the pride of life when he was told, throw yourself down from the pinnacle of the temple, and he will command his angels concerning you to bear you up on their hands. Satan there quoting Psalm 91. So Jesus was tempted in every respect, lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life, just as we are. And yet without sin. Now that's important because some people could misunderstand verse 3 of chapter 5. Because of this he is obligated to offer sacrifice for his own sins. just as he does for those of the people. And they might think, well, this is every high priest, including Jesus, he might have to offer sacrifice for his own sins. No, Jesus didn't have any sins. He was tempted in every way just as we are, yet without sin. That makes him sympathetic. He's able to deal gently with the ignorant and wayward because he knows better than anybody what it is to be tempted because Satan put the maximum You think about it. Jesus had been fasting for forty days and forty nights. Satan came to him personally and tempted him supernaturally. That's much more than what we deal with. And so Jesus is able to understand, to sympathize with what it is to be human, what it is to be hungry and tired, what it is to be tempted, and he gives us help. He deals gently with us. And that is good news. So that opening section shows us how he was qualified to be high priest. And then verses 7 through 9 in the middle. tells us how Jesus was qualified to be the final sacrifice and the savior for his people. And he how he had a reverence to his life. In the days of his flesh, Jesus was reverent, and he offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death. This is taking us to the Garden of Gethsemane in particular. But there were other times in his life when he wept over Jerusalem, when he cried out to the Lord. But in particular, we're being taken to the Garden of Gethsemane. And there Jesus was in deep, deep agony. As he uh interceded, he prayed to the one who could save him from death, saying, If it is possible, let this cup pass from me. And he was heard. He was delivered from death into eternal life in his resurrection from the dead because of his reverence. When we're in the Psalms, I'll make reference uh frequently to this verse because I believe the Psalms are one one thing that they are is a prayer of the prayer book of Jesus, that that Jesus prayed the Psalms throughout His life. They reflect the heart of Jesus. And so they show us the types of prayers that he prayed. Now another thing that could be misunderstood in this section is verse 9, which says that Jesus was made perfect. And some people say, well that does that mean he was imperfect? And then he was made perfect. And especially along with verse 3, Pimble said, well, he had sinned, but he had to overcome those sin. He had to be made perfect. That's not what this means. Okay, so the end of chapter 4 tells us clearly that Jesus was without sin when he was tempted. And here, being made perfect doesn't mean that he was morally imperfect and had to be purified. Rather, this is about him being qualified, qualified to become the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him Jesus already was a son, the son of God, the one and only son of God. He already was sinless. But before his humanity, he had never suffered. He had never been tempted. He had never been beset with weakness, human weakness and frailty. He had never faced testing. So he had to endure the suffering, the weakness, and the testing. He had to endure that to earn for us a perfect human righteousness that we could received by faith and also to be our faithful and sympathetic high priest. So this being made perfect is being made perfectly qualified. to be the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him. And that qualification involved Jesus enduring unspeakable agony and And then the writer to Hebrews uh breaks off here and says, Oh, we have much more to say about just Jesus as Melchizedek, which he's going to come back to. to later. But he's a little bit frustrated because he feels like he's having to relay the basic gospel groundwork with this with this group of believers. When really by now this group of believers ought to be teachers. He says, You've you're dull of hearing, you ought to be teachers, and yet you need someone to teach you the basic principles of the oracle. This was a group of Jewish background believers who were tempted to apostatize, who were tempted to leave the Christian faith and to go back to just being Jewish, thinking that the Old Testament Uh ceremonial law, the Mosaic Law was sufficient with its sacrifices and its ceremonies to to provide them with a good standing before God, right standing before God. key books of the Bible to show us that just being Jewish is obviously not enough to save anyone. You need to believe in Jesus, which is why the author of Hebrews is going to such length To make sure that these Christians hold on to Jesus and their faith in him and they don't go back to just being Jewish. There's no separate plan of salvation for Jewish people just by being Jewish. That is not biblical. through Jesus Christ. And since he's been revealed in the world, you have to believe in Jesus Christ to be saved. Even before Jesus was revealed in the world, the only way of salvation was Through Jesus Christ, but you could trust in him through the promises and the ceremonies and the types that God had given that were pictures of Jesus. But now that Jesus has been fully revealed, you must believe in him explicitly. to be saved. So the author of Hebrews here is frustrated that this group of Christians needs milk and not solid food. And he gives us a principle here. He says, you need milk and not solid food, for everyone lives on who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness since he is a child, but solid food is for the mature, who have had their powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil. The milk of the basic gospel of who Jesus is and what he's done to save us is wonderful. It's refreshing. It's nourishing, it's good. But there is also a word of righteousness. There is also living as a Christian There is also growing in our obedience to Christ, growing in bearing the fruit of good works. This is what we're called to grow in. And it should follow, if we are alive and if we are growing, that we will progress from milk to solid food. Doesn't mean that we don't still enjoy milk. You can be an adult and still enjoy a nice glass of cold milk, but you're not solely living on baby milk, right? It you would it would be strange to see someone who's thirty years old and whose entire diet was just baby milk or formula powder or whatever. It's just like, okay, this is something really strange here. And that's what the author of Hebrews is saying. They're saying in the Christian life there should be progress towards Maturity, which means there should be progress in your doctrinal understanding and in your obedience. Jesus learned obedience through the faith That he suffered. He learned how to obey his father in the face of difficulty. And if we are following him, we should be learning how to to obey the Lord in times of difficulty and that's why we need Jesus, the great high priest, to be our example, to be our encouragement, to be our strength, to be the anchor of our souls, to be our hope, so that we can grow in righteousness, in obedience. in discerning good and evil, in doing what pleases the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for such a great high priest. He is so wonderful. Lord Jesus, you are all that we need. You are perfect righteousness. You are sufficient salvation. You are the fulfillment of the promises of God. You are our everything Holy Spirit, would you bind our hearts to Jesus by faith through your grace that we might grow in Him and live for your glory, Father Son. Son and Holy Spirit, by growing in righteousness, by growing in understanding, by growing in obedience. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Well, that's Hebrews chapter 5. Glad you could join me. We're going to be jumping back to 1 Chronicles tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.