Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 19th week together in the Gospels We are in Mark 13 looking at the second half of the chapter. By the way, when you're seeing this, when this is released, I am in Uganda at Reaching Africa's Unreach, but this was recorded ahead of time. And so today Should be our first day of full ministry in Uganda. So if you can be praying for us, we'd appreciate that. Let's pray as we turn to God's word as we're considering today how can we know his return is near without knowing the day or hour. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word that's living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. Penetrate our hearts with your truth that we might love you more. In Jesus' name. Amen. Mark 13, starting in verse 14. But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where he ought not to be, let the reader understand. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let the one who is on the housetop not go down, nor enter his house to take anything out, and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak. And alas for women who are pregnant, and for those who are nursing infants in those days, pray that it may not happen in winter, for in those days there will be such tribulation. as has not been from the beginning of the creation that God created until now, and never will be. And if the Lord had not cut short the days, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect, whom he chose, he shortened the days And then if anyone says to you, Look, here is the Christ, or look, there he is, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will arise. and perform signs and wonders to lead astray, if possible, the elect. But be on guard. I have told you all things beforehand. But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken. And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory, and then he will send out his angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven. From the fig tree, learn its lesson. As soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near So also when you see these things taking place, you know that He is near, at the very gates. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away. But my words will not pass away. But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Be on guard, keep awake, for you do not know when the time will come. It is like a man going on a journey when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge, each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to stay awake. Therefore stay awake, for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning, lest he come suddenly and find you asleep And what I say to you, I say to all, stay awake. Well, first of all, we need to acknowledge that today's passage, along with Matthew 24 and Luke 21, is probably the most difficult teaching of Jesus to understand properly. If you read today's passage and you're wondering What is the abomination of desolation? There is a helpful article you can find online called What is the Abomination of Desolation by Dan Doriani. That could be very helpful to you. If you want a link to that, you can see me or it's in the email that goes out in the morning with the devotionals. Today I want to focus on one particular question. And that question is, how can we be sensitive to the signs that Jesus is near and yet not know the day nor the hour? Jesus tells us in verse 28 to learn the lesson of the fig tree. By this Jesus means that we should be discerning enough to know when he is near, or are his words limited to those in his generation? I do think the immediate context of Jesus' words in this section is the discourse, uh this discourse probably applies best to his disciples and to their generation, according to work verse 30. And so I think the lesson of the fig tree is probably most directly applicable to a coming judgment that happened during their generation, and that is the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple in the year 70 A. D. However, the broader lesson still applies to us because the full second coming of Jesus has not yet happened. God wants us to be discerning and to understand the times in which we live. We need to be attuned to the spiritual climate of our day and always be aware of the possibility, the imminent possibility of coming judgment and the return of Christ. We need to be aware of the soon return of Jesus. But when is soon? Well, in speaking more directly to us, beyond the context of AD 70, Jesus says in verses 32 and 33, concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, nor not even the angels in heaven, nor the sun, but only the Father. Be on guard, keep awake, for you do not know when the time will come If we can't understand when Jesus is coming, we can only know that he's coming soon. And that means that we always have to be ready and always alert. Can we know the exact time of Jesus coming? No. Can we be ready? Yes. By his grace we can. If you want more specific direction on how to be ready, go and listen to the devotional on Matthew 24, verses 19 to 51. But Jesus is indeed coming soon. And so we need to stay awake spiritually, ready for his return. Let's go to Psalm 92. It's a psalm. It's a psalm for the Sabbath. It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises to your name, O Most High, to declare your steadfast love in the morning and your faithfulness by night to the music of the lute and the harp, to the melody of the lyre. For you, O Lord, have made me glad by your work. In the works of your hands I will sing for joy How great are your works, O Lord! Your thoughts are very deep. The stupid man cannot know. The fool cannot understand this. That though the wicked sprout like grass and all evildoers flourish, they are doomed to destruction for ever But you, O Lord, are on high forever. For behold, your enemies, O Lord. For behold, your enemies shall perish. All evildoers shall be scattered. But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox. You have poured over me fresh oil My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies. My ears have heard the doom of my evil assailants. The righteous flourish like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon. They are planted in the house of the Lord. They flourish in the courts of our God. They still bear fruit in old age. They are ever full of sap and green to declare that the Lord is upright. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him. Let's pray. O Lord, indeed, you are the only true rock, the only one that we can really say there is no unrighteousness in you. The rock foundation of the world, of the universe, of our lives, of our hope. Lord Jesus, when you come again, you will punish all evildoers. Help us to be alert and waiting for that day. Help us to rejoice in the goodness of the salvation that we've received. The glorious works of our salvation through the coming of Jesus Christ, through the conquering of sin and death, should bring us joy and confidence and an expectant hope. We should not be drowsy. We should not be complacent. We should not be compromised. Help us to stay awake and alert. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.