We're in Matthew twenty-one. We are going to be in the Gospel of Matthew for Holy Week this week, so we're in Matthew twenty-one. For the triumphal entry, we're going to be looking at verses one to twenty-two. Matthew 21, verses 1 to 22. This is the word of God. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethesg, to the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say the Lord needs them, and he will send them at once. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, humble, and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them. Most of the crowds spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And the crowds that went before him And that followed him were shouting, Hosanna to the son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest! And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, Who is this? And the crowd said, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth in Galilee. And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all who sold and bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons. He said to them, It is written, my house shall be called a house of prayer, but you make it a den of robbers. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple and he healed them. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple, Hosanna to the son of David, they were indignant. And they said to him, Do you hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes. Have you never read, Out of the mouths of infants and nursing babies, you have prepared praise? And leaving them, he went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there. In the morning, as he was returning to the city, he became hungry. And seeing a fig tree by the wayside, he went to it and found nothing on it, but only figs, and he said to it, May no fruit ever come from you again. And the fig tree withered at once When the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, How did the fig tree wither at once? And Jesus answered them, Truly I say to you, If you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, Be taken up and thrown into the sea, it will happen. And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive if you have faith. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please write this word on our hearts. Please show us again the wonder of our Savior. That we might love and trust and follow him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Are you ready? Are you ready? That's a question that often just causes stress. Just asking it. This time of year, we might be thinking about Easter coming up in a week, are you ready? We're going to be hosting family at our house for Easter. Tim and Jan are gracious enough to open up their home and host their church family the day before Easter. Wow. Are you ready? I just got got back from a youth retreat. I had not planned and led a youth retreat in a while. It's been a while. And so there was a lot to get ready. And uh I was packing up on Friday thinking, am I ready? Do I have everything? Am I remembering everything? Well, one of the most momentous occurrences in the history of the world unfolds in our passage today. And some people were ready, and some people were not ready. Jesus was ready. He had made sure that everything was prepared The blind and the lame and the children, we'll come back to them at the end of the sermon, they were ready. Because they had a simple faith and they knew the right thing to do is to go to Jesus and worship him. The disciples weren't really ready, although they were doing everything that Jesus told them to do. The religious leaders certainly were not ready, and they had no idea what was really happening. The final week of Jesus' earthly ministry, from Palm Sunday to the resurrection, is the most important week in the history of the world. Without a doubt. Every promise of God is kept, is fulfilled in Jesus, in his betrayal, in his condemnation, in his suffering, in his death, in his resurrection. The gospel writers spend on average about one-third of their gospels on this last week of Jesus' life. Jesus lived for 33 years. He spent like three and a half years in ministry. But this one week gets the focus of about a third of the Gospels because it's so important. Jesus knew how important it was. He ensured that every detail was prepared. So what we need to ask as this week begins is are we ready for the king? We might have a lot of things in our minds about what we're going to make on Easter and where we need to shop and what we need to prepare for and filling eggs. And all those things. But what's most important is are we ready to welcome and worship the King? Are we ready to believe, to follow, to rejoice? How can we get ready? Well One of the things I think that gets in the way of our being ready is that we have our own set of expectations And they're unrealistic, and they're unbiblical, and they get in the way, and they distract us from what is really important. We have our own set of expectations. This is like, I just so you know, I hardly ever think about what I'm going to wear when I preach, except like I look in the closet as I'm getting ready to leave, and I'm like, what's clean? and what can I grab and I put it on. But there's a few times, Christmas Eve and Easter Sunday, and and it's even today Palm Sunday where I where I think a little bit about it. And I put it on, I'm like, is this Happy enough. I probably should have worn green. I thought that I was again like I probably should have had some green on today. Like that doesn't matter Greens and yellows, I see those around, that's fine. But that's not like that's not, doesn't matter. I know some of you, because of the way that you've grown up and traditions that you worshiped in in the past, you might wonder, why don't we have palms? Aren't we handing out the palms to have on Palm Sunday? No, we don't do that If you want to talk to me about why we don't do that, I can have that side conversation with you. But our elder Sean Troutman actually put it quite well, and this is not meant to be a dig at anybody else who does it because I think they have really good reasons for wanting to do it But Sean Troutman said very simply, why would we want to imitate the crowd that was so wrong? Like they were wrong in what they were expecting of Jesus. So we come to offer the right Hosanna and the right praise to God, and that's not with palms, but it's with our hearts and with the spirit. Um so anyway, Jesus comes. Jesus comes as the king who is promised, but not as the king who is expected. And very often, like the reason why the crowds didn't get it is because Jesus didn't come to meet their expectations. And the more they saw him, like as he's as he's riding across the Kidron Valley, as he's riding up the hillside to the gate in Jerusalem, as he's coming through the gate, they're excited, they're shouting, they're praising. By the way, we might as well just call this coat Sunday too, because more of them put down their coats than palms. Maybe that's the way you should do it. Like we'll all put our coats down and walk over them. Let's not do that. But it's they're all excited, but as they watch Jesus do what he does, beginning with the fact that he doesn't go to Pontius Pilate. And say, you get out of here and you take all those Roman troops with you, or else. He doesn't do that. He goes to the temple. And he starts turning over the tables of the money changers and driving out the animal sellers and speaking words of condemnation against the place of worship. And as the week goes on, as he teaches, as he does miracles, it becomes very clear to this crowd, this guy is not going to meet our expectations. And so they join in with what the religious leaders are already thinking, which is this guy is not going to work for what we want. We have to get rid of him. Jesus comes as the king promised, but not as the king who was expected. Why didn't they expect him? They knew the scriptures. But they had selectively chosen to focus on those scriptures that met their expectations. And they interpreted those selected scriptures in a way that suited their desires and would fulfill their agendas. We do it. We have calendars that have Bible verses on them. We have, you know, sometimes t-shirts or sometimes little necklaces that have Bible verses on them. It's always the ones that put a smile on your face and make you feel good. You don't ever see uh Bible calendar that has a picture of like a storm cloud brewing and then a verse that says, There is no rest for the wicked, says the Lord. We like to pick the things that kind of make us feel good. And they like to focus on the messianic expectations that involved national deliverance and defeat of their enemies. by a son of David who would be a great warrior king. And here's the thing about their expectations. They were aiming too low. Jesus did come as a great warrior king, as the son of David, to defeat their greatest enemies and bring them great deliverance. But they were too small in their thinking. Matthew wants us to know that Jesus came exactly as promised. and that he fulfilled the scriptures in every detail. Part of the way that he does this is that in this section of 22 verses, he has four quotations from the scriptures that show that Jesus was coming as promised. If you look at verses 4 and 5, Jesus comes in, and Matthew's quoting from Zechariah 9. 9. Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. He is the king. He is coming to you. And he's coming to you humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the full of a donkey. And Matthew even gives us very specific detail of how that happened. You got a a a young donkey colt that had never been ridden, and you put it with its mother because that's the only way that that donkey's going to cooperate, and that's how Jesus comes in on the mama donkey and seated on the colt next to it. Verse 9, you have the crowds shouting, and it's a quote from Psalm 118, as we just saw, verses 25 and 26. Hosanna to the son of David, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. This psalm, as I said, is the coination of the Hillel Psalms. And this word Hosanna that they say twice, it means save now, or save, we pray. By Jesus' day it had become just a way of sort of cheering, like saying hurrah or hooray. But it means save now or save, we pray. And that is right because Jesus was coming to save, but also wrong because they Misunderstood where they most needed salvation. They thought their biggest problem was Rome. They thought their biggest problem were the Roman troops and the and the tax collectors. They had a much bigger problem that Jesus had come And then in verse 13, Jesus himself quotes from Isaiah 56, 7, when he says, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer. And then he says, But you've made it a den of robbers. And then in verse 16, when the chief priests and the scribes are indignant at the children, crying out, Hosanna to the Son of David, Jesus defends his actions, their actions, by quoting Psalm 8, verse 2. out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies you have prepared praise. So everything is being fulfilled according to Scripture. Jesus is the Son of David. He's the rightful royal king of Israel. He's fulfilled all the scriptures that were written about him. He was born of a virgin in Bethlehem. He was born of the line of David. He taught in parables. He opened the eyes of the blind. He set people free from demonic oppression. He did great miracles. He fulfilled the law in his personal and perfect obedience to his father. And he even arranged that last detail of riding in on the donkey's colt. He was the king who was promised. He was also the king that they really needed, more so than they even knew. Because they didn't realize how lost they were. They didn't realize the depth of the trouble that they were in. They were cut off from God, they were under the sentence of condemnation, and Jesus came to solve their greatest problem and deliver them from their greatest oppression. They needed true righteousness that they lacked in themselves. They needed forgiveness for their sins, which all the blood of bulls and goats could not secure for them. They needed rescue from the powers of hell that enslaved and oppressed them. They needed Deliverance from death, which Scripture calls the King of Terrors. Jesus came to do all of this, but they missed it because their expectations were too low. And I want us to be very clear about this because we have an annoying tendency as people that we use the word spiritual So if I say he came to secure them a spiritual deliverance from spiritual oppression. And to be the spiritual king over his spiritual kingdom. If I use words like that, we have a tendency in our human minds to think that spiritual is somehow lesser than Or not quite as real as the physical. Like sometimes we'll say, well, yeah, I know all that's true, but I need some practical help for my real problems. And we use it almost to say like, you know, forgiveness, eternal life, heaven. Yeah, I yeah, I get all that, but like I've got bills that need paying. I've got There's this political situation that needs to be dealt with. There's this there's this, you know, whatever. And we think and sometimes in fact what annoys me is when I'm reading a Bible scholar, a Bible commentator They'll take the word spiritual and they'll use it interchangeably with the word symbolic. So for example, at the Lord's Supper that we're going to share on Thursday, Jesus is spiritually present in the Lord's Supper. That's what we believe. We believe in the spiritual presence of Christ in the Lord's Supper. And so some people will say, oh, so you think that the Lord's Supper is just symbolic? No, that's not what I said. I didn't say it was just symbolic. I said we believe in the spiritual presence of Christ in the Lord's Supper Christ is really and truly present. I get into little discussions with Lutheran friends, and they'll say, we believe in the real presence of Christ in the supper. And I said, so do we. What do you mean? We believe in the real presence. I said we believe in the real presence, the real spiritual presence of Christ in the Lord's Supper. They they think real and spiritual almost contradictory. You said two different things there. No This is what it means to live by faith. Paul explains this, and he says, we don't live according to the seen things because the seeing things are temporary. But the unseen things are eternal. And so if you live for the unseen things, you're living for eternal things. You're living for the realest real things. Here's another way to put it. People will sometimes say, life is short and you only live once, so you better make the most of it. But if you're thinking biblically, you realize life is short. You only live once. But eternity is forever. You better be ready for it. You better be living for it. Why would you live for something that is a blip on the screen when the rest of eternity is there before you? So when Jesus came and he didn't meet their expectations, he did not fall short of their expectations. He far exceeded them to a degree that they couldn't even see it because they didn't have faith to understand that he was doing something so much greater than what they wanted. So he goes to the temple to try to show them what he's doing. He goes to the temple to try to show them how everything they were doing as a nation was actually empty. It was impressive. It looked good, but it was empty. At a seminary professor of mine And he loved uh traditional Anglican style worship. He was a church history guy and he had studied the history of the Book of Common Prayer and he he loved all the creeds and confessions and he loved this very high church sort of approach to worship. And there was a church in downtown Baltimore, I won't say the church name, but uh it was in that tradition. And he he would go and it would be Right out of the Book of Common Prayer and all of these great elaborate prayers and all of this, you know, stuff of which he understood the symbolism behind it, uh the spiritual significance of it, I should say. And so he's he's saying to the people there, isn't this great? Do you guys do you guys get the what's what's behind us and what what you're saying? And The people who were there said, oh, we don't take any of this all that seriously. It's just a comfort to us to go through these patterns and have this tradition. We don't really believe any of it. And you got to talk into the pastor even just about the Apostles' Creed. And the pastor was like, oh, you can't really seriously believe that Jesus was born of a virgin, or that he really rose again from the dead. Those are just metaphors. It's like, wait a minute. You have a lot of things that look impressive, but there's nothing actually going on. And that was the temple in Jesus' day. The temple in Jesus' day was incredibly impressive. It was the very heart of the Jewish community. It was the place where everybody who was a Jew who could afford to do it would go on pilgrimage three times a year. The first time in their calendar that they would come was for Passover, which was in their first month of the year in the springtime. And then uh Fifty days later they would come back for Pentecost or the first fruits. And then they would come for Tabernacles, the Feast of Tabernacles, at the end of the harvest season in the fall. So they had They had the Feast of Passover that celebrated their deliverance out of Egypt. They had the ingathering of Pentecost, which was the gathering in of the first harvest. And then they had a second harvest gathering in. And so they were in Jerusalem three times a year. And they worshipped at this temple that was very impressive. It didn't start off being super impressive. When the second temple was built, it was built in 517 BC. It was built after the Babylonian exile. So the first temple was the temple built by Solomon. That temple was really grand and really magnificent. and very impressive. But that temple was destroyed when the Babylonians came and destroyed Jerusalem in 586. And then they took everybody off captive. And then 70 years later, just as Jeremiah had predicted, seventy years later the temple gets rebuilt. But when it's rebuilt, it's rebuilt by a band of refugees who don't have a king and who are under a dominating empire, and what they rebuild is just not that impressive. In fact, it's so unimpressive compared to what was there that the people who were old enough to remember what had been there before, they weep at how sad it is. Hundreds of years go by, though. And Herod the Great becomes king over Jerusalem. He makes this alliance with the Romans to provide protection for his kingdom, and he becomes a vassal state to them, and he decides he's going to enlarge and expand the temple. And it takes like fifty years. And he he greatly expands the Temple Mount. He greatly beautifies the temple so that it becomes just a stunning crown jewel of Herod's kingdom and one of the great things to go and see. The disciples marvel at the size of the stones and the placement of the stones. I've been to the Temple Mound in Jerusalem a couple of times, and there's part of the just the retaining wall. The temple that was there in Jesus' days completely gone, as Jesus said, not one stone remains on another. But part of the retaining wall is there. And you can see some of the stones that Herod put in place, because he has a way that he dressed the edges of his stones, so you know that he put them in place. And it's just stone on stone with no mortar It's all just held together by gravity. And there are these massive stones. And you think, how in the world did they lift that up and put it in place before they had like Modern technologies. It was a it's amazing. Just that's what you see on like the whaling wall, if you've ever seen video of that. That's just a retaining wall of the Temple Mound. It's not any part of the temple itself. But it was impressive. It was massive. It was also very busy. Very busy. Especially during Passover. Probably the largest and best attended of all the annual gatherings. And Palm Sunday takes place just days before Passover. In fact, four days before Passover, there was a requirement that you had to bring the lamb, the Passover lamb, into your house, and it had to live with you. for those four days before Passover so that you would get to know the lamb, it would become sort of part of your household, and you would also be able to inspect it to make sure that it was truly spotless. And so a lot of people were in Jerusalem buying lambs Or bringing their lambs into the city to the place where they were staying. And we don't know for sure exactly how many people were there, but the estimates are that there may have been as many as half a million worshipers and about a hundred thousand lambs crowded into a city that has normally has a population of 30,000 to 50,000. So you imagine ten times the population, and then three times the population just in lambs. And Jesus rides in as the Passover lamb in the middle of all this, but they don't see it. It's busy. It's busy. But it is just as spiritually bankrupt as it is impressive and busy. The chief priests and the rulers of the temple, they would have heard that Jesus had raised Lazarus from the dead because that happened right before. The triumphal entry, days before probably, maybe just a couple weeks before. But it was it wasn't days leading up, because it even says in the raising of Lazarus, Passover was at hand. We studied that in Sunday school this morning. Another plug for Sunday school. Another raising a Lazarus is the background for this triumphal entry and how everybody was feeling about Jesus, why they were excited about him. Earlier, he had given sight to a man who was born blind. So the people who were in positions of authority, they knew. They knew that Jesus had given sight to a man who was born blind. They knew that Jesus had raised from the dead a man who was buried in the tomb for four days. They knew. And yet They were corrupted by their greed and their love of power and also by their own nationalistic pride. In John 11, we read exactly how they responded to the raising of Lazarus. So I'm going to share that with you. If you have a Bible, you can turn to John 11, verse 45. And here's what happened when they heard. Jesus of Nazareth, this guy that they knew. He'd healed the man born blind. He had healed a man by the pool of Bethesda earlier in his ministry. Like they knew who this guy was And here he's raised somebody from the dead who was in the tomb for four days. This is what we read as the reaction to this miracle. Verse 45. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council and said, What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people than that the whole nation should perish. He did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So from that day on Verse 53, from that day on they made plans to put him to death. Imagine this, you hear this great miracle, and your response is, we have got to get rid of this guy. Because everyone's going to believe in him. And if everyone believes in him, the Romans are going to take away, notice what they're afraid of, they're going to take away our place and our nation. Their place. Their place made them powerful, prominent, important, and rich. And their nation was their sense of nationalistic pride. They had fooled themselves into thinking that the nation of Israel, because they had their own king in the line of the Herods, was really this this great nation. It was just a vassal state of Rome But they had this delusional thought about political power. So it was prestige, it was money, it was political power and influence, and they didn't want to lose any of it. They were so clueless that Caiaphas even speaks the truth about what Jesus is going to do, but none of them get it. He's gonna die to save the people of God. Jesus exposes how spiritually bankrupt the temple is by going straight to the temple courts where the animal sellers and the money changers are and driving them out. Why would he do that? Well, there's a couple things going on here. One is, of course, the the fleecing of God's people. He says, uh, it is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you've made it into a den of robbers. So Jesus says, they've made it into a den of robbers. The way it worked, very simple system, very ingenious system. The Bible requires that if you bring an animal for sacrifice, the animal has to be Spotless. Pure. Well, you have to go on pilgrimage to get to Jerusalem and to the temple. It's a trip of Miles, depending on how far away you live. If you bring your own animal from home, that's a risk. Something could happen on the way. The animal could break its leg. The animal could get caught in a thicket and get bloody. Or you think it's spotless, but guess who has to determine if the animal is really spotless or not? The priests. They have to judge it and decide if it's really spotless or not. You ever watch the dog shows? I like watching the dog shows because I like dogs. But you ever wonder, like, they've got this whole group of dogs and they're all running around and they say, well these ones are the best and that one is the best. And you're thinking, like, what like Who's to say? Right. Well, they've got that eye. Now imagine this. Imagine the priest Who gets to determine whether your animal is truly spotless or not? If your animal is not spotless, Well, over here we have for sale a spotless animal that you can buy, and I happen to get 10% of the cut. How many spotless animals are those priests going to identify of the ones who are coming? So everybody kind of caught on to the system and they knew, you know what? Just bring your money. We'll buy an animal when we get there. It's easier. You don't have to tend to an animal during a journey. You don't have to worry about it getting injured. Priests aren't going to accept it as spotless. Anyway, you know how they are. Just bring your money, we'll buy an animal when we get there. Oh, but there's a problem. You can only purchase a temple sacrificial animal with the temple currency. There's a special, special, holy temple drachma. You have to buy it in that currency. Well, where do they use this currency? Well, only at the temple. Where can you get this currency? Well, we have money changers right here for you. For a small fee, we will gladly convert your currency to the temple currency. So they're fleecing people But there was another problem, and that is where all of this was set up. It was set up in the outer court of the temple, which was called the court of the Gentiles or the Court of the Nations. When Jesus said, My house shall be called a house of prayer, he's quoting from Isaiah 56 and a larger section that we looked at a few weeks ago about foreigners who joined themselves to the Lord. Here's the larger section. And the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord to minister to him, to love the name of the Lord, and to be his servants, everyone who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it, and holds fast to my covenant These I will bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all the peoples. God intended that this temple would be a light to the nations And the nations could come, they could bring their sacrifices, and God would say, hey, if you want to join yourself to me and you want to learn about me, I'm going to teach you about myself, I'm going to accept your sacrifices, I want you to come. Well, when they show up, the place that's designated for them to be able to worship has got a bunch of animals being sold and a bunch of money changers changing money So it's crowded, it's noisy, it's hardly worshipful, and that's why Jesus drove them out. And the most confusing part of this whole passage is actually where Jesus teaches the lesson of the cleansing of the temple to his disciples, and that is the cursing of the fig tree. You ever wonder why Jesus cursed a fig tree? Like what's a fig tree do to Jesus? It's just a fig tree. He was teaching. He was teaching. Mark's gospel tells us it wasn't even the season for figs. We're not told that in Matthew. In Matthew, we're told that Jesus was hungry. He was hungry. He was looking for fruit on the fig tree. Now it's not about the fig tree because the fig tree wasn't even the season for figs. But here's what it's about. What was that fig tree doing in that moment? It was showing lots of leaf and no fruit. It was putting on an impressive display of life while not actually offering any nourishment to anybody. The fig tree was, for Jesus, a parable of the temple. And he curses the fig tree because of what he sees going on in the temple There's absolutely no fruit going on. Now I say absolutely no fruit, but that's not entirely true. Because there were three groups who got it. Years before Jesus came into the temple, after his triumphal entry He had a conversation with a Samaritan woman at a well outside the village of Sikar in Samaria. Jews hated Samaritans, and men generally did not talk to women in public. But Jesus engages this Samaritan woman. in a conversation so that he can bring the words of life to her. And one of the things he tells her in that conversation is that God the Father is seeking worshipers who will worship him in spirit and in truth. In spirit is sincere and from the heart. In truth is according to the Word of God. not the imaginations of people. So true, heartfelt, faithful worship is what God is seeking. That's what God is seeking. He's hungry for that, we could say. Jesus was hungry for fruit from the fig tree. God is hungry for worship from his people, that is in spirit and in truth. And on the Temple Mound, there were actually three groups that were giving it. They were the blind and the lame and the children. Look at verses 14 and 15. The blind and the lame came to him in the temple and he healed them. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things he did, when he saw, they saw him giving sight to the blind, they saw him making lame people walk. They were indignant. They not only saw this, but they saw children crying out, Hosanna to the son of David, and they were indignant. Some people. Years ago when I was head of school at New Covenant Christian School in Abingdon We had uh someone who lives on the other side of the fence from the school, I'll just leave it at that. And she would complain a lot about what was going on at the school and we would we would say was was there some sort of damage done? Was there some sort of do she said it's it's just the sound of of children playing. It just bothers me. And I just thought, that's very sad. I feel very sad for her. The sound of children playing really bothers her. Well, here the sound of children praising God bothers these chief priests and scribes. Blind people receiving their sight, lame people walking. Bothered these people. Why? Well we already know why from John 11. We're gonna lose our place and our nation. But these blind, these lame, and these children, they all had faith. Faith that was simple enough to know that they should welcome Jesus, they should praise Jesus, and they should seek what they need from Jesus. These three groups would all be aware of their need, of their weakness. Jesus isn't looking This is what it means for us. Jesus is not looking to be impressed by your abilities. Jesus is not looking to be impressed by your knowledge or by your wealth He wants faith. And the worship in spirit and in truth that flows from a heart of faith. When we're in need, he wants us to come to him with our need. When we're blessed, he wants us to come to him with our praises. And so that's the lesson of Palm Sunday for us. Are we going to be the busy and the impressive? But spiritually empty? Or are we going to be the simple, the needy, and the faithful? Are we believing in Jesus? Are we coming to Him knowing how weak we are? And are we looking to Him for strength? Are we coming to Him knowing how ignorant and foolish we are? Looking to him for wisdom? Are we coming to him knowing how sinful we are and looking to him for forgiveness and righteousness? If you're coming to him, loving him for who he is Joyful and thankful for what he has done to save you, and how wondrously he has fulfilled all the promises of God. If that is your heart, then you are ready. You are ready to worship the Lord. He's not impressed by how big your ham is, although I am in favor of having ham on Easter. He's not impressed by how cleverly you hide the eggs for the kids at the egg hunt. He wants our hearts. He wants our faith. He wants us to come to him and worship him. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you for sending your Son to rescue us. He brought the salvation we need. We confess to you that it's not always the salvation we want. Sometimes what we want is more money in our bank account. Sometimes what we want is more importance in the world. Sometimes we're too focused on our place and our nation. But you've given us so much more than that in Jesus our You've given us so much more than that in the one who delivered us from sin and death forever. So thank you. And may our worship of you be by faith in spirit and in truth. In Jesus name, Amen