Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to have you with us on day 1027, our 1027th day, together here in God's Word, looking at Hosea chapters 5 and 6. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig in. to the words of this prophet from the Lord. Heavenly Father, thank you for giving us your word in various forms. Thank you for the prophet Hosea for his willing obedience to you. To be your instrument, to show in his life and through his words your love for your people, your your zeal for your own holiness and for your relationship with your people. Write these words in our hearts that we might hear them and respond to them in faith. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Hosea 5 and 6. Hear this, O priests. Pay attention, O house of Israel. Give ear, O house of the king, for the judgment is for you. For you have been a snare at Nizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor, and the revolters have gone deep into slaughter, but I will discipline all of them. I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from me. But now, O Ephraim, you have played the whore. Israel is defiled. Their deeds do not permit them to return to their God, for the spirit of whoredom is within them. And they know not the Lord. The pride of Israel testifies to his face. Israel and Ephraim shall stumble in his guilt. Judah also shall stumble with them. With their flocks and herds they shall go to seek the Lord, but they will not find him. He has withdrawn from them. They have dealt faithlessly with the Lord For they have borne alien children, now from the new moon, now the new moon shall devour them with their fields Blow the horn in Gibeah, the trumpet in Ramah, sound the alarm at Beth-Avan. We follow you, O Benjamin. Ephraim shall become a desolation in the day of punishment among the tribes of Israel. I make known what is sure. The princes of Judah have become like those who move the landmark. Upon them I will pour out my wrath like water. Ephraim is oppressed, crushed in judgment, because he was determined to go after filth. But I am like a moth to Ephraim. Ephraim, and like dry rot to the house of Judah. When Ephraim saw his sickness and Judah his wound, then Ephraim went to Assyria and sent to the great king, but he is not able to cure you. or heal your wound. For I will be like a lion to Ephraim, and like a young lion to the house of Judah. I, even I, will tear and go away, I will carry off, and no one shall rescue. I will return again. to my place until they acknowledge their guilt and seek my face and in their distress earnestly seek me Come, let us return to the Lord, for he has torn us that he may heal us. He has struck us down and he will bind us up. After two days, he will revive us. On the third day, he will raise us up that we may live before him. Let us know. Let us press on to know the Lord. He is his going out is sure as the dawn. He will come to us as the showers, as the spring rains that water the earth. What shall I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? Your love is like a morning cloud. Like the dew that goes early away, therefore I have hewn them by the prophets, I have slain them by the words of my mouth, and my judgment goes forth as the light. For I desire Steadfast love and not sacrifice. The knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. But like Adam, they transgressed the covenant. There they dealt faithlessly with me. Gilead is a city of evildoers tracked with blood, as robbers lie in wait for a man, so the priests band together They murder on the way to Shechem. They commit villainy. In the house of Israel, I have seen a horrible thing. Ephraim's whoredom is there. Israel is defiled. For you also, O Judah, a harvest is appointed when I restore the fortunes of my people. Well, that is Hosea five and six, and the end of six and beginning of seven is kind of an awkward transition, so we'll look at that next time, tomorrow, when we're back here for chapters But Hosea 5 and 6, uh, God is speaking to his people about their about their adultery. about their high places where they have played the whore. Remember that Hosea was called to take Gomer as his wife. And Gomer was a wife of Horedom and she was an adulteress, and she cheated on Hosea and had children of Horedom, and then she left Hosea and lived with another man, and he had to go and purchase her back to himself. This is a living parable. And so now God is is taking this word and giving it to the people of Israel. And and even specifically the priests, we've seen that before, but the priests They have a higher responsibility because they're the ones who are supposed to be the mediators between God and his people. They're supposed to be the ones who who facilitate that relationship between God and His people. by teaching the law to the people of God and by um offering up prayers and sacrifices sincerely before God. But the priests had made it all about themselves. The priests had figured it was it was their business. Right? What was actually a call from the Lord to be covenant mediators and to be the facilitators of God's relationship with his people, they took it upon themselves in pride to enrich themselves. to not teach the people God's law, to do the offerings, but just as a matter of obligation and routine and for money and for profit. Meanwhile, the people, not well instructed in God's word, not understanding the truth, they go out and they offer up sacrifices to false gods and they offer up sacrifices on high places. They've dealt faithlessly with the Lord. And God is going to send judgment. Remember that Hosea is a contemporary of the prophet Isaiah, which means he prophesies up to the time when the northern kingdom of Israel is taken away in judgment by Assyria. And Assyria also threatens the southern kingdom of Judah, but Judah is not taken away, because there's repentance from Hezekiah, the king of Judah, who's a righteous man. So Ephraim. is told here. That's the northern kingdom. The northern kingdom is Ephraim, Israel. And they're told here specifically that they will become a desolation. Their population was deported and largely replaced. Ephraim was oppressed, crushed in judgment. Because why? Because he was determined to go after filth Now Judah is also going to be punished, but Judah is not going to be desolate like Ephraim. So there's a difference, there's a distinction made here between what's going to happen to Ephraim and what's going to happen to Judah. to Judah. Why is God doing this? God is doing this so that his people will acknowledge their guilt and Seek his face. We see this at the end of five and the beginning of six. I will return again to my place until they acknowledge their guilt and seek my face. and in their distress earnestly seek me. Come, let us return to the Lord, for he has torn us that he may heal us. He has struck us down, and he will bind us up. God always judges his people. in the hope and with the expectation and with the purpose that they would repent. And if we really are the people of God, when we suffer affliction, when we endure suffering, when we go through hardship, we turn back to the Lord. We repent of our sin, we examine our hearts, we seek the Lord. And that is what we are called to do, and that's how we know that we really are God's people. If we're not really God's people, then affliction and hardship and suffering comes and we grow bitter toward the Lord. And we grow far away from the Lord and we abandon the Lord. That actually shows that our hearts are hard, not a heart of flesh, and we're not truly the Lord's people, even though we may make a profession of faith. There's no real Holy Spirit living in our hearts, living an active kind of faith. Look at verse 2 of chapter 6. This is a one of these places where actually the resurrection of Jesus is being foretold. After two days he will revive us. On the third day, he will raise us up that we may live before him. Jesus, one of the things that Matthew especially brings out is that Jesus in his life fulfills all that Israel was called to be and do. And he lives out in his life many things that were prophesied about Israel. And he is enacting that, accomplishing that, fulfilling that, filling up that word of prophecy in himself. So, how do we return to the Lord? Well, Jesus takes the wrath of God on himself. He is struck down by the Lord on the cross. And then after two days revived, on the third day, raised up. This is what happens with Jesus. It was it was God's intention that he would Inflict wrath and then restore. And Jesus received the wrath of God and then was restored to life again. And so as we belong to Christ, We are therefore woven into Christ's life and death and resurrection and the fulfillment of Israel's story. And that's why we are the true Israel. We are the Israel of God, those who belong to Jesus Christ, the Church, because what Israel was called to be and what Israel was foreshadowing to be Christ fulfilled, and then we receive by faith as we are united to him. And what comes after the resurrection? He will come to us as the showers, as the spring rains that water the earth. Verse 3. What happened after the resurrection? The outpouring of the Holy Spirit, the living water. the refreshment for the people of God. So we have a powerful foreshadowing anticipation of the resurrection of Christ and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit in verses 2 and 3 of chapter 6. six. And then we get back to this current state with Ephraim and Judah and what the problem is. They profess to be God's people But their love is like a morning cloud or like dew that goes early away. It's not permanent. It's very changeable. It's very fickle. What God wants, and this is for the priests, to hear exactly verse six What God wants is sacrifice is sorry, what God wants is steadfast love and not sacrifice. He wants the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. But the priests, look at that verse 9, as robbers lie in wait for a man, so the priests band together, they murder. On the way to Shechem, they commit villainy. If you are offering up an animal to the Lord, in quotes, as a sacrifice, But it's not really to the Lord and it's not really a sacrifice, and you're doing it to profit for yourself and to benefit yourself, you're murdering that animal. Because you're not really obeying the Lord. There's no steadfast love for God in your heart. It's murder. And so there's violence being done in the name of the Lord because there's no knowledge of God and there's no steadfast love in the temple. But God will bring restoration. God will bring healing, and that's going to wait until tomorrow when we're in chapter 78. What do we get from this? Well we get this, right? We sin. We are unfaithful to the Lord at times. How do we respond when God chastises us? When God exposes to us what our idols are? How do we respond? Do we double down on our idolatry and resent God for exposing those things? Do we invest more in what we think will save us and less in what God has called us to? Does God have our hearts? Is God the one who is the object of our affection and our obedience? In sincerity, do we know him? Are we seeking to grow in the knowledge of him? And Do we see all of the hopes and all of the expectations and all of the calling of God's people fulfilled in Jesus Christ? And are we holding on to Christ as our Redeemer, our King, our substitute sacrifice, the one who bore the wrath for us and was raised to life? and in whose death and resurrection we die to sin and live to God forevermore. Let's pray. Father in heaven, your words powerful. Your Son is powerful as the fulfillment of your words. Help us to cling to Jesus by faith, to grow in Jesus by love, to walk with Jesus in humility and dependence. To offer to you the sacrifices that you desire, which is a humble and contrite spirit, steadfast love, and willing obedience from faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's Hosea 5 and 6. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapters 7 and 8. I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.