T Vintage. Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're kind of taking things two chapters per day as we go through the book of Hosea. However, sometimes we get three or more when we're in the Psalms, but basically one chapter per day. We've been doing this for 1,031 days now. And we are in the book of Hosea coming to the end. Uh Hosea eleven and twelve are before us this morning. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. We need you. We come to you as distracted and weak children who need their father. So please speak to us and teach us your word today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Hosea 11 and 12. When Israel was a child, I loved him. And out of Egypt I called my son. The more they were called, the more they went away. They kept sacrificing to the bales and burning offerings to idols, yet it was I who taught Ephraim to walk. I took them up by their arms. But they did not know that I healed them. I led them with cords of kindness, with the bands of love, and I became to them as one who eases the yoke on their jaws. And I bent down to them and said them, They shall not return to the land of Egypt, but Assyria shall be their king. Because they have refused to return to me. The sword shall rage against their cities, consume the bars of their gates, and devour them because of their own counsels My people are bent on turning away from me. And though they call out to the Most High, he shall not raise them up at all How can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I hand you over, O Israel? How can I make you like Adma? How can I treat you like Zeboim? My heart recoils within me. My compassion grows warm and tender. I will not execute my burning anger. I will not again destroy Ephraim, for I am God and not a man. The Holy One in your midst, and I will not come in wrath. They shall go after the Lord. He will roar like a lion. When he roars, his children shall come trembling from the west. They shall come trembling like birds from Egypt. and like doves from the land of Assyria, and I will return them to their homes, declares the Lord. Ephraim has surrounded me with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit, but Judah still walks with God and is faithful to the Holy One. Ephraim feeds on the wind and pursues the east wind all day long. They multiply falsehood and violence. They make a covenant with Assyria, and oil is carried to Egypt. The Lord has an indictment against Judah, and will punish Jacob according to his ways. He will repay him according to his deeds. In the womb he took his brother by the heel, and in his manhood he strove with God, he strove with the angel, and prevailed. He wept and sought his favor. He met God at Bethel, and there God spoke with us, the Lord, the God of hosts, the Lord is his memorial name. So you By the help of your God, return. Hold fast to love and justice and wait continually for your God. A merchant in whose hands are false balances loves to oppress Ephraim has said, Ah, but I am rich. I have found wealth for myself. In all my labors they cannot find in me iniquity or sin. I am the Lord your God, from the land of Egypt. I will again make you dwell in tents, as in the days of the appointed feast. I spoke to the prophets. It was I who multiplied visions, and through the prophets gave parables. If there is iniquity in Gilead, they shall surely come to nothing In Gilgal they sacrifice bulls. Their altars also are like stone heaps on the furrows of the field. Jacob fled to the land of Aram. There Israel served for a wife. And for a wife he guarded sheep. By a prophet of the Lord By a prophet the Lord brought Israel up from Egypt, and by a prophet he was guarded. Ephraim has given bitter provocation. So his Lord will leave his blood guilt on him and will repay him for his disgraceful deeds. So that is Hosea 11 and 12. We have one more day left in Hosea. Tomorrow we're going to be in 2 Corinthians chapter 10, and then after tomorrow we'll be back here to wrap up this book in 13 and 14. But Uh this this these are beautiful chapters and they really show the heart of the Lord. At the beginning of Hosea, you get a picture of the heart of the Lord. in what Hosea is called to do with his wife Gomer. And then at the end of the book we're given this heart of God through what God speaks himself. Tender words of affection. for a very unruly and disobedient child who's going to be given over for discipline, but not for wrath, because the Lord will not abandon his people He can't do it. His heart loves his people too much. We are his child that he's brought up. And taught to walk and talk and fed and provided for, and yet we're ignorant of that, and we are idolatrous, just like Israel We are the bride, whom he loves, whom he takes to himself with tender affection and Unfailing faithfulness. But we don't repay that with unfailing faithfulness or tender affection. So often we're just so caught up in our own desires and worldliness. So it's a heartbreaking and heart-wrenching, but also a tender and encouraging word. Because the Lord loves us. He really does. I led them with cords of kindness, with the bands of love, and I became to them as one who eases the yoke on their jaws, and I bent down to them and fed them. God is tender in his affection for us. He's patient in his love for us. Even though he's going to discipline them. How can I give you up? he asks. How can I hand you over? He says, No, my heart recoils within me. My compassion grows warm and tender. I will not execute my burning anger. And he says, it's for I am God and not a man. You see, it would be perfectly justifiable from a human perspective To completely give up, to throw in the towel, to turn Israel over completely to wrath and destruction. But God is not a man. And his heart is more full of love, more full of compassion than ever we could imagine it would be I love verse ten because it kinda reminds me of Narnia and Aslan, and I'm kinda wondering if C. S. Lewis was inspired in part by this verse they shall go after the Lord. He will roar like a lion. When he roars, his children shall come trembling from the west. When when Aslan's roar comes, the his children gather to him and he leads them in battle. Anyway, it's just a personal little connection there. One of my favorite book series. But I love this this uh this picture. It's it's unflinching and it's indictment of Israel for her sin. Ephraim feeds on the wind, pursues the east wind all day long. The east wind is is a dry desert wind. It blows in off the desert and brings no actual rain. That's what idolatry is. Idolatry is a pursuing of the east wind. We we're wanting a fruitless wind when we go after idols. uh when we make covenants with the world, when we want to be liked and approved by the world, when we want more of the things of the world. We're wanting more of what has no real spiritual nourishment in it. And so it is the Lord who in compassion says to us, return, hold fast to love and justice. Verse six, wait continually for your God. Verse eight, when Ephraim says, Ah, but I am rich, I found wealth for myself, and in all my labors they cannot find in me This is speaking to something that is profoundly true historically, and that is Ephraim, the northern kingdom, was by far the less faithful of the two. Judah was more faithful because it had better kings more often. than Ephraim. It also has some terrible kings, but at least had some good kings and and a number of decent kings. It had some great kings like Hezekiah and Josiah. It had some decent kings. But Israel, the northern kingdom, had no good kings. None. None that were heart, you know, steadfast to the Lord. But In an earthly and worldly sense, Ephraim, Israel, the northern kingdom, was much more powerful and much wealthier. Much more. And so they could boast and say, hey, things are working out okay for us. But interestingly, they went into exile 120 years before the Southern Kingdom because God said, No, you're faithless to me, and I'm going to bring judgment. And they were never fully restored the way that Judah was. Judah, the southern kingdom, in the decree of of of Cyrus, was restored to Judah and Jerusalem. The Israelites became the Samaritans and they were kind of sort of restored, but never wholly purely restored. So worldly wealth is a message for us for these chapters in Hosea, worldly wealth and earthly success and popularity is not is not spiritually beneficial and in fact often leads to more idolatry. We need to be moved by the Lord's great love for us to love him in return. We need to be moved by the spiritual benefit that comes From heeding God's word and follow his word and be loyal to him because he is always faithful and following him is always fruitful. Let's pray. Father, thank you for calling us to be your own in love, in compassion. Thank you for bearing with us with patient forgiveness through our sinful wanderings. You pursue us and protect us and draw us back to yourself again and again. Be our God, be our Father, be our guard. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, 2 Corinthians chapter 10 is on tap for tomorrow. I do hope you can join me for that. And as always, I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.