Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 1028th day. I was about to say 128 days. That was a long time ago that we were on 128 days. It's been three and a half years since then, something like that. One thousand and twenty-eight days. We're here in Hosea seven and eight. Let's pray. Father in heaven, your word, perfect, living, active, pointing us to Jesus, your son. Speak to us and write your word on our hearts today. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right, we are here. Hosea 7 and 8 before us, and we'll pick up the end of verse chapter 6, because it's right in the middle of the sentence when we transition chapters, especially the way that the ESV has it translated here. For you also, O Judah, a harvest is appointed when I restore the fortunes of my people, when I would heal Israel, the iniquity of Ephraim is revealed, and the evil deeds of Samaria, for they deal falsely. The thief breaks in, and the bandits raid outside, but they do not consider That I remember all their evil. Now their deeds surround them. They are before my face. By their evil they make the king glad. And the princes, by their treachery, they are all adulterers. They are like a heated oven, whose baker ceases to stir the fire from kneading of the dough until it is leavened. On the day of our king, the princes become sick with the heat of wine. He stretched out his hand with mockers. For with hearts like an oven they approach their intrigue. All night their anger smolders. In the morning it blazes like a flaming fire. All of them are hot as an oven, and they devour their rulers All of their kings have fallen, and none of them calls upon me. Ephraim mixes himself with the peoples. Ephraim is a cake not turned. Strangers devour his strength, and he knows it not. Grey hairs are sprinkled upon him, and he knows it not. The pride of Israel testifies to his face. Yet they do not return to the Lord their God, nor seek him for all this. Ephraim is like a dove, silly and without sense. Calling to Egypt, going to Assyria, as they go, I will spread over them my net. I will bring them down like the birds of the heavens. I will discipline them according to the report made to their congregation. Woe to them, for they have strayed from me. destruction to them, for they have rebelled against me. I would redeem them, but they speak lies against me. They do not cry to me from the heart, but they wail. upon their beds. For grain and wine they gash themselves. They rebel against me. Although I trained and strengthened their arms, yet they devise evil against me, they return, but not upward. They are like a treacherous bow. Their princes shall fall by the sword because of the insolence of their tongue. They shall, this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt. Set the trumpet to your lips. One like a vulture is over the house of the Lord, because they have transgressed my covenant and rebelled against my law. To me they cry, My God, we, Israel, know you. Israel has spurned the good. The enemy shall pursue him. They made kings, but not for me. They set up princes, but I knew it not. With their silver and gold they made idols for their own destruction. I have spurned your calf, O Samaria. My anger burns against them. How long will they be incapable of innocence For it is from Israel. A craftsman made it. It is not God. The calf of Samaria shall be broken to pieces. For they sow the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind. The standing grain has no heads, it shall yield no flower. If it were to yield, strangers would devour it. Israel is swallowed up. Already they are among the nations as a useless vessel. For they have gone up to Assyria, a wild donkey wandering alone. Ephraim has hired lovers. Though they hire allies among the nations, I will soon gather them up. And the king and princes shall soon writhe because of the tribute, because Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning. They have become to him altars for sinning. Were I to write for him my laws by the ten thousands, they would be regarded as a strange thing. As for my sacrificial offerings, they sacrifice meat and eat it, but the Lord does not accept them. Nor does he remember their iniquity and punish their sins. They shall return to Egypt. For Israel has for forgotten his maker and built palaces, and Judah has multiplied fortified cities. So I will send a fire upon his cities, and it shall devour her strongholds. Hosea seven and eight. God longs to be gracious to his people. He has a heart of love to do well for his people, to bless his people. But he is also holy and just. And these two things are not really in conflict with one another because God's holiness and justice doesn't just mean it would be wrong for him to bless his people when they're sinful, but actually it would not be a blessing. to them, if he were to give them the things they were seeking for. If you think about it, if Israel is worshiping wrongly For the sake of getting grain and wine, they want an abundant harvest of wheat and grapes so they can have Bread and wine in abundance. If God blesses them with grain and wine in abundance, while they are worshiping incorrectly, worshiping false gods and trying to worship the Lord through a golden calf. If God blesses them through that, they're going to learn to depend upon idols. And their hearts will be hardened in sin and unbelief. And they will be cursed because they will be living according to a lie. They will be bowing down and worshiping created things. It is so degrading to the human soul. made to glorify and enjoy God forever. It is so degrading to the human soul to give our allegiance and our love and our worship to created things Lesser things, things we are called to exercise dominion over, not give ourselves to in worship You see, God made everything. God made us in his image. And God, in his love, will not bless us in our sin. Because his justice and his holiness is offended and contradicted by it, but also so is his love. Every part of God's character is offended because it would not be to our true, deep, and eternal benefit to give us material blessings. When we are idolatrous in our hearts. And so the Lord, in love and in justice, withholds the blessing from idolaters. And calls us to repent. We have in Hosea Chapter 7, we have four similes to what Israel is like in her adultery. She's like an oven. It's like a an earthenware place for making bread. Like a heated oven is is is this passion that burns. Even though the baker doesn't stir the fire, that the oven is the suppressed passion, an anger smoldering. And if you don't if you don't tend to an oven fire properly It will explode. It will erupt if you're not aware of what's going on inside. So the hearts of the people, in being adulterous, and being treacherous to God, are Dangerous. When sin smolders in our hearts, it is offensive to God and a danger to us. Idolatry in the heart displeases God and Endangers and enslaves us. The next simile we're given in verses 8 to 10 is of this cake not turned. And a cake not turned is half-baked and not fit for eating. So if you're half-hearted in your devotion to God, you're have one foot in the kingdom of God, one foot in the world. On Sunday bowing down to the Lord, on Monday bowing down to the Baals and Asheras of our culture, you're going to be weak. You're going to be unsuitable and you will hurt and be hurt because you will not be what God intended you to be. The third metaphor in verses 11 to 15 is a silly dove with no sense that would have to be disciplined by a net Doves are are fickle sometimes. And they're a danger to themselves and to others if they don't stay where they're supposed to be. And Israel has made secret alliances with Egypt and with Assyria, looking for help from the nations instead of being true to the Lord. And then the final metaphor that is here, or simile rather, that's here, is in verses 14 to 16 And this final simile in verses 14 to 16 is that they're like a treacherous bow. They return but not upward. So imagine aiming a bow and it's it's treacherous, it doesn't go where you want it to go. God has a purpose for our lives. We are to glorify God, to enjoy him forever, to spread his glory among the nations. That's the purpose. Glorify God, enjoy him forever, spread his glory among the nations. But if you devise evil, and if for grain and wine you gash yourselves, what's a modern equivalent of that? Well Maybe we do foolish things like gambling with our money because we want more money rather than tithing and giving. Or maybe we we cheat on our taxes, or maybe we cut corners at work, or maybe we we're we're willing to sacrifice the things of God for the things of the world. Because we want grain and wine. Or we want a new car. Or we want a bigger house or we want a bigger screen TV and so we're gonna skip on our tides or we're gonna save up for vacation and not give to missions. These are practical things where the idols that are in our hearts for leisure and for recreation and for self-indulgence crowd out the things of God And we become like a treacherous foe. Instead of glorifying God, enjoying him forever, and advancing his glory in the world, we're serving ourselves with self-indulgence and laziness. And we are not what God calls us to be. And so there is there are consequences that come. We get oppressed by the enemy because we don't have strength. God no longer entrusts to us the things that He would give us because we're not reliable and also if we're spending them on ourselves we're actually being hurt by it. And so he disciplines us. Wrong worship is also part of this. This golden calf is an image of worshiping God but through man-made means. This this can be seen in the modern church when people are more concerned about how entertaining a worship service is to the audience, putting on a show. If there's a stage If there are lights, if there's a powerful sound system, if there's big screens, because the primary thing that's being communicated by that, all the house lights down, all the stage lights up. Loud music, big screens, what is that? It's a concert, it's a show. Who is the show for? The show is for the audience. Just like as if you had bought a ticket to get in. That's not worship. That's entertainment. That's worldliness. That's not godliness. Godliness is God's people gathered together. Singing God's praises, hearing from his word, praying to him together, not people in an audience being entertained by people on a stage. That's golden calf equivalent. It's trying to worship God, but doing so through man-made and worldly forms. And so we have to be faithful to God in what we pursue and how we pursue it. And To want to obey him from the heart. God says, if I'd written for my people, my laws, by the ten thousands, they would regard it as a strange thing Christians today, so many Christians today can quote more contemporary song lyrics than they can verses from the Bible We know better the the stump speeches of the politicians or the talking points of the talking heads on cable news than we do the principles of God's word We need to repent of our worldliness, our idolatry, our fickleness, our unfaithfulness, because we know how much the Lord loves us And because we know that he desires to bless us, but in his love, he can only bless us when our purposes are aligned with his purposes for us. So that the blessing would flow in the proper direction for our own good as well as for his glory. God does everything for our good and for his glory. And when we're not glorifying him, we're also not benefiting ourselves So seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the evil man his thoughts. And God will have mercy. Let's pray. Father, we are worldly and distracted. We are fickle and unreliable. Only your grace by your Holy Spirit can strengthen us and establish us on firmer ground May our worship, may our knowledge, may our time and money and lives and hearts be directed for your glory, for our good. And for the furtherance of your gospel. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That is Hosea 7 and 8. Tomorrow we're going back to Proverbs for our next to last visit in the book of Proverbs, Proverbs chapter 30 is on tap for tomorrow. Hope you can join us for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.