Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On our 1024th day, we come, well, it says Hodea. There's not really a book in the Bible called Hodea, though, so we better make it say Hosea. We come to a very interesting Very compelling. One of the minor prophets, Hosea. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. for your pursuit of us, for your faithfulness to us. We see these things reflected in Hosea. We pray that you would write this book on our hearts, that we might be moved to love you more. for how wonderful you are and how much you love us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hosea chapter one and two. The word of the Lord that came to Hosea, the son of Beri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. and in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel. When the Lord first spoke through Hosea, the Lord said to Hosea, Go. Take yourself a wife of whoredom, and have children of whoredom, for the land commits great whoredom by forsaking the Lord. So he went and took Gomer, the daughter of Diblame, and she conceived and bore him a son. And the Lord said to him, Call his name Jezreel. For in just a little while I will punish the house of Jehu for the blood of Jezreel, and I will put an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel And on that day I will break the bow in Israel in the valley of Jezreel. She conceived again. And bore a daughter. And the Lord said to him, Call her name no mercy, for I will no more have mercy on the house of Israel to forgive them at all. But I will have mercy on the house of Judah, and I will save them by the Lord their God. I will not save them by bow or by sword or by war or by horses or by horsemen. When she had weaned no mercy, she conceived and bore a son. And the Lord said, Call his name not my people. For you are not my people, and I am not your God. Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be like the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured or numbered And in the place where I said to them, You are not my people, it shall be said to them, children of the living God. And the children of Judah and the children of Israel shall be gathered together, and they shall appoint for themselves one head, and they shall go up from the land for great shall be the day of Jezreel. Say to your brothers, you are my people, and to your sisters, you have received mercy. Plead with your mother, plead, for she is not my wife, and I am not her husband, that she put away her whoring from her face, and her adultery from between her breasts lest I strip her naked, and make her, as in the day she was born, and make her like a wilderness, and make her like a parched land, and kill her with thirst Upon her children also I will have no mercy, because they are children of whoredom. For their mother has played the whore, she who conceived them has acted shamefully for she said, I will go after my lovers, who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my drink. Therefore I will hedge up her way with thorns. And I will build a wall against her, so that she cannot find her paths. She shall pursue her lovers, but not overtake them And she shall seek them, but she shall not find them. Then she shall say, I will go and return to my first husband, for it was better for me then than now. And she did not know that it was I who gave her the grain, the wine, and the oil, and who lavished on her silver and gold, which they used for bail Therefore I will take back my grain in its time, and my wine in its season, and I will take away my wool and my flax, which were used to cover her nakedness. Now we will uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and no one shall rescue her out of my hand. And I will put an end to all her mirth, her feasts, her new moons, her sabbaths, and all her appointed feasts. And I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees, of which she said, These are my wages, which my lovers have given me. I will make them a forest. And the beasts of the field shall devour them, and I will punish her for the feast days of the Baals, when she burned offerings to them. And adorned herself with her ring and jewelry, and went after her lovers, and forgot me, declares the Lord. Therefore, behold, I will allure her and bring her into the wilderness and speak tenderly to her. And there I will give her her vineyards, and make the valley of Acor a door of hope. And there she shall answer, as in the days of her youth. as at the time when she came out of the land of Egypt. And in that day declares the Lord, you will call me my husband. And no longer will you call me my Baal, for I will remove the names of the Baals from her mouth and they shall be remembered by name no more. And I will make for them a covenant on that day, with the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the creeping things of the ground, and I will abolish the bow, the sword, and war from the land, and I will make you lie down in safety, and I will betroth you to me forever. I will betroth you to me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in mercy. I will betroth you to me in faithfulness and you shall know the Lord. And in that day. I will answer, declares the Lord. I will answer the heavens, and they shall answer the earth, and the earth shall answer the grain, the wine, and the oil, and they shall answer Jezreel. And I will sow her for myself in the land, and I will have mercy on no mercy, and I will say to not my people, You are my people, and he shall say, You are my God. That is Hosea 1 and 2. Powerful passage. What a compelling story. So Hosea is a contemporary of Isaiah. He's ministering at the same time. So even though we had Jeremiah and Ezekiel, now that we go to the minor prophets, we're actually going back in time and we're going back to uh the kingships That are the same kings as during the time of Isaiah. So Hosea and Isaiah were both prophesying at the same time. But Hosea has a rough call because he's called to live out in his life. The relationship that God has with his people. Ezekiel had a bad when his wife died. The wife he loved, his own heart. And He could not mourn. He had to pretend like nothing was wrong. Here, Hosea is called to take to himself a wife of whoredom. Now he loves her But she is unfaithful to him. And have children of whoredom. So with it with these three children, there's something Very clear and very powerful going on. First of all, the firstborn called Jezreel. This is Hosea and Gomers. Son. And his his name is a message. It's the avenge of the blood of Jezreel But what does that mean? I will punish the house of Jehu for the blood of Jezreel. Well, it can't be the fact that Jehu carried out vengeance on the house of Ahab and Jezebel because that's exactly what he was called to do. But probably what it means is that after Jehu took the throne, he did not worship God the way that the Lord commanded. And instead he continued the sacrifices, the the blood offerings. to the golden calves, not to Baal, but to the golden calves. And so there's going to be vengeance. There's going to be vengeance. The house of Jehu's going to be broken. Now the second child she conceived again and bore a daughter. Now, it doesn't say she bore him a daughter. The first child it does say in verse 3, she conceived and bore him a son. But that him is missing with the second child and again with the third child. And remember God said you're going to have a wife of Wardom and children of Wardom. And notice that both the second and the third child have negative names, no mercy and not my people. I believe the second and third children are not Hosea's children. They are Gomer's children, but children by adultery. And this actually shows What Israel is doing. Israel's children, Israel's offspring, should be brought up faithful to the Lord. They are the Lord's children, but By some of them they offered up in sacrifice to pagan gods, others they trained to worship pagan gods from a young age, as they had household statues of Baal and Asherah, that they would offer incense and and make offerings to, and so they were children. She is a bride, Israel, was a wife of Horedom, but the children were children of Hordom as well. So the daughter is called no mercy. Can you imagine that? Having a daughter? It's not not Hosea's daughter, but still he's raising her. He's responsible for her. No mercy. I will have no mercy on the house of Israel, but I will have mercy on the house of Israel. of Judah. I will say them. This is a this is Hosea's prophecy of the great deliverance that happens under Hezekiah when the Assyrians threaten Jerusalem. They sack all the towns of Judah and they're zeroing in on Jerusalem. And it looks like the final downfall of the kingdom of Judah, and God comes to the rescue, and the angel of the Lord uh slays 185,000 of the Assyrians in a single night. It's not by bow or sword or by war or war horses. It's the angel of the Lord who delivers his people. So after she weaned no mercy, she conceived and bore a son. Again, didn't bear him a son, but just bore a son. And this one's called Not My People. And I think this is the clearest that this is not Hosea's child. Not my people. For you are not my people, and I am not your God. Now that's all negative, negative, negative, negative. And yet, wow, look at that. Verse 10. Yet Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be like the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured or numbered. And in the place where it was said to them, You are not my people. It shall be said to them, children of the living God. Now the New Testament shows us a very surprising Fulfillment of this prophecy. Because the New Testament picks up on this and actually applies it to the gospel being taken to the Gentiles, and the Gentiles who are not of the people of God are grafted into the promises And are made the children of God. So the place to go to see this is Romans 9. This is Romans 9 And in Romans 9-11, the Apostle Paul is really wrestling with the fact that the vast majority of Jewish people, his brothers according to the flesh, are not following Jesus, but that the church, the vast majority of the church, by this time is made up of Gentiles. And so he says, I'm speaking the truth in Christ. I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart, for I wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers. My kinsmen according to the flesh. They are Israelites. To them belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship, the promises. To them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ who is God over all. But he's he's grieved because they're not believing. And in the process of working through this, he talks about the sovereignty of election. Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated. It's up to God to have mercy and to have compassion. And then we get this reference to Hosea down in verse 25. As indeed he says in Hosea, Those who were not my people, I will call my people, and her who was not beloved I will call beloved. And in the very place where it was said of them, you are not my people, they will be called sons of the living God. This is a reference, Paul is saying, to God expanding by grace and bringing in the uh the Gentiles. Let me go back to Hosea. There's no book of Hosea, Jason. That's a type of my fingers like to make, apparently. Um So going back to Hosea, we see that when this is when this is brought in in verse 10, yet, this is where he's quoting from. In the place where it was said to them, You are not my people, be called to them. You're the children of the living God. They're going to be numbered like the sand of the sea Which cannot be measured or numbered. Remember, that's the fulfillment of the promise to Abraham. And just when we were in Ezekiel a couple of days ago. We saw that God's fulfillment of the promise to Abraham involves bringing in this expansive multitude from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. And they're all the children of Judah and the children of Israel. They're all the people of God. They're grafted in. In chapter 11 of Romans, it talks about they're grafted into the tree, the one olive tree, which has its root in that Abrahamic promise. So they they do receive mercy and they are people. So this is a reference, it's a reference both to the remnant of Jewish people who return after the exile and who no longer worship the Baals, but who worship the one true and living God. That's true of them, but that's only the seed. In Isaiah, there's a reference to the tree of David being cut down, and from its root there grows a shoot. out of the stump. So the exile is the felling of the seed of of the tree of the Davidic dynasty. But there's a shoot that comes out. There is a remnant that returns. But ultimately, the seed is Jesus, who is the holy seed of Abraham and the holy seed of David, and he comes. And from him grows this massive tree that fills the world and offers shade to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. We see the same pattern in chapter two. Chapter 2 is giving us God's prophetic oracle to his people, which was demonstrated in Hosea's life in chapter 1, but now it's sung in chapter 2, and I believe it is a song, as most prophetic oracles were originally And so Israel's been unfaithful, and so Israel's gonna have to pay the price. The the language in chapter two is just so emotionally powerful because it shows the the painful ways in which Israel takes the very blessings of God food, wine, grain, animals, children, and gets money and uses them to worship the Baals. And so God takes them away. But just as we had in chapter one, that beautiful yet in verse So here in chapter 2 we have a beautiful therefore in verse 14. Therefore, behold, I will allure her. and bring her into the wilderness and speak tenderly to her. He's going to woo his wife back to himself And in that day, declares the Lord, you will call me my husband and no longer my veil, no longer this mixed paganized worship, but faithful worship. But that's yet coming in the future. What's our takeaway from Hosea 1 and 2? Well, I think a couple of things. One is, first of all, we need to realize how gracious God is to us. How many times are we unfaithful in our thoughts, in our words, in our deeds, and how many times is he gracious to us? Second, what did it cost him? To buy back his bride. We're going to see that actually the next time we're in Hosea. We're going to get into chapter 3. So I don't want to give away too much there. But ultimately, what it takes for these promises to be fulfilled is nothing less than than the Son of God to offer up his life for us, to buy us back to our Heavenly Father. And then we as Gentiles need to give praise the Lord that we're grafted in, that we're counted in. And we need to be busy about the process of taking this good news to the remaining nations who have not yet heard. Let's pray. Father, thank you for such amazing love. Thank you. Thank you for such a heart that you have for your people, to love us and to pursue us and to bring us back to yourself again and again. We praise you and thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me as we're digging into this wonderful Old Testament book of Hosea. We'll continue tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.