Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you for our one thousand and thirtieth day together in the Word of God. And we're back in the Minor Prophet Hosea. Minor because it's a shorter book. The major prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, they wrote books of sixty, f fifty chapters long. These shorter prophets, maybe we should call them, but they weren't shorter In fact he had to go through some major uh suffering and life experiences to to really powerfully illustrate the Lord's relationship with his people. Let's pray and ask the Lord's wisdom as we get back into this book today. Father, thank you for your love. Thank you for your word. Every part of it. Please be with us as we look at Hosea 9 and 10 today. Please write these chapters on our hearts that we might know you and love you and respond to your love with love and obedience. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Hosea 9 and 10. Rejoice not, O Israel, exult not like the peoples, for you have played the whore, forsaking your God. You have loved a prostitute's wages on all threshing floors. Threshing floor and wine vat shall not feed them and the new wine shall fail them. They shall not remain in the land of the Lord, but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria They shall not pour drink offerings of wine to the Lord, and their sacrifices shall not please him. It shall be like mourner's bread to them. All who eat of it shall be defiled, for their bread shall be for their hunger only. It shall not come to the house of the Lord. What will you do on the day of the appointed festival and on the day of the feast of the Lord? For behold, they are going away from destruction, but Egypt shall gather them. Memphis shall bury them. Metals shall possess their precious things of silver. Thorns shall be in their tents. The days of punishment have come, the days of recompense have come, Israel shall know it. The prophet is a fool, the man of the spirit is mad because of your great iniquity and great hatred. The prophet is the watchman of Ephraim with my God, yet a fowler's snare is on all his ways, and hatred is in the house of his God. They have dealt, they have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah. He will remember their iniquity, he will punish their sins. Like grapes in the wilderness I found Israel, like the first fruit on the fig tree, in its first season I saw your fathers. But they came to Baal Peor and consecrated themselves to the thing of shame, and became detestable, like the thing they loved. Ephraim's glory shall fly away like a bird. No birth, no pregnancy, no conception Even if they bring up children, I will bereave them till none is left. Woe to them when I depart from them Ephraim, as I have seen, was like a young palm planted in a meadow, but Ephraim must lead his children out to slaughter. Give them, O Lord, what will you give? Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts. Every evil of theirs is in Gilgal. There I began to hate them because of their wickedness of their deeds. I will drive them out of my house. I will love them no more. All their princes are rebels Ephraim is stricken. Their root is dried up. They shall bear no fruit. Even though they give birth, I will put their beloved children to death. My God will reject them, because they have not listened to him They shall be wanderers among the nations. Israel is a luxuriant vine that yields its fruit. The more his fruit increased, the more altars he built. As his country improved, he improved his pillars. Their heart is false. Now they must bear their guilt. The Lord will break down their altars and destroy their pillars. For now they will say, We have no king. For we do not fear the Lord, and the King, what could he do for us? They utter mere words. With empty oaths, they make covenants. So judgment springs up like poisonous weeds in the furrows of the field. The inhabitants of Samaria tremble, for the calf of Beth Abon. Its people mourn for it, and so do its idolatrous priests, those who rejoiced over it and over its glory, for it has departed from them. The thing itself shall be carried to Assyria as tribute to the great king. Ephraim shall be put to shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his idol Samaria's king shall perish, like a twig on the face of the waters. The high places of Avon, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed. Thorn and thistle shall grow up on their altars, and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us, and to the hills, Fall on us. From the days of Gibeah you have sinned, O Israel, where they have continued. Shall not the war against the unjust overtake them in Gibeah? When I please I will discipline them, and nations shall be gathered against them. when they are bound up for their double iniquity. Ephraim was a trained calf that loved to thresh. And I spared her fair neck. But I will put Ephraim to the yoke. Judah must plough, Jacob must harrow for himself Sow for yourselves righteousness, reap steadfast love, break up the fallow ground, for it is time to seek the Lord that he may come and reign righteousness upon you You have plowed iniquity, you have reaped injustice, you have eaten the fruit of lies, because you have trusted in your own way and in the multitude of your warriors. Therefore, the tumult of war shall arise among your people, and all your fortresses shall be destroyed As Shalman destroyed Beth Arbal on the day of battle, mothers were dashed in pieces with their children. Thus it shall be done to you, O Bethel. Because of your great evil, at dawn the king of Israel shall be utterly cut off. Hmm. That is Hebrews. Hebrews. Hosea. Starts with an H. Hosea nine and ten. Got my River Valley Ranch mug with some good coffee this morning. We have a hard passage in front of us with some hard words. God is These words are against Ephraim, Israel. That's the northern kingdom So Isaiah is prophesying around this same time, but Isaiah is primarily prophesying to Judah, the southern kingdom, and Hosea is primarily prophesying to Israel or Ephraim, the northern kingdom. And the focus here, as is common in the prophets, is on the idolatry of Israel Ephraim. their spiritual adultery, and how it really has been baked into them from the very beginning. There's reference in chapter 9, verse 10 to Baal Peor. So God says, like grapes in the wilderness I found Israel like the first fruit on the fig tree in its first season. I saw your fathers, but they came to Baal Peor and consecrated themselves to the thing of shame, and they became detestable like the thing they loved. In the very first generation Of people who they saw the plagues in Egypt. They experienced the Passover mercy of God. They saw the parting of the Red Sea where they walked through on dry ground and then the Lord drowned the Egyptian army. They heard the Lord speak. out of the smoke on the mountain at Mount Sinai, they received the Ten Commandments written by the finger of God. They were fed with manna from heaven every day. They drank from water from the rock, and 1 Corinthians 10 tells us that rock was Christ. They had all of these miracles, all of this great provision, and in that first generation of Israel coming out of the Exodus, their first id identifiable as a nation, Israel. Remember when Balak, King of Moab, tried to curse the Israelites, and he summoned Balaam. to come and curse them. And Balaam could not curse them because Balaam could not speak anything other than what God had spoken. But then Balak came up with a different strategy under Balaam's advisory. So think about Balaam that we forget, like he was a bad dude because Yes, he only spoke the words of God, and those were true, and they're recorded for us in the book of Numbers. But When when that failed, they went to plan B and plan B was to get them to engage in idolatry and adultery at the same time. And that's what Baalpior is. You go to Numbers 25, you can read more about that. But idolatry and adultery by sleeping with the cult prostitutes of Baal Peor right from the very beginning. From the very beginning. And then the northern kingdom of Israel, from the very beginning, When Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, was foolish, and Jeroboam the first, king of Israel, rebelled, and God gave him ten tribes, a prophet came and told him, You're going to have ten tribes. And he took those ten tribes. And he immediately set up two golden calves, one at Bethel and one at Dan. So we had the reference to what's going to happen to Bethel at the end of our passage. Yeah. Verse 15 of chapter 10, thus it shall be done to you, O Bethel. Bethel is one of the places where the golden calf was set up. And so from the very beginning of the people of God coming out of Egypt, idolatry, adultery. From the very beginning of the northern kingdom of Israel, idolatry, spiritual adultery, even though they thought they were worshiping the Lord through those golden calves, God said, No. No. No, not true. There's a pattern here at the beginning of chapter ten verse one That is a pattern that we need to be aware of to expose the idolatry in our own hearts. And that is, the Lord says. Israel is a luxuriant vine that yields its fruit. The more his fruit increased, the more altars he built. As his country improved, he improved his pillars. As we get wealthier and get a more comfortable lifestyle, we become entitled. We think that we deserve certain things And we become very whiny and very complaining when we don't get the things that we think we are entitled to. And we become more and more idolatrous. We give our hearts to the things of this world as we have more of them. And so this is a pattern, this is a human pattern that we need to be aware of. What should happen, it's the exact opposite of what should happen. What should happen is that we should praise the Lord. We should thank the Lord. We should worship the Lord for how good he is to us. But so often we don't do that. We instead get self indulgent, entitled, idolatrous, complaining and grumbling. And that is idolatry. And that kind of thing, these chapters make it very clear, God hates that kind of attitude, that kind of perspective on life. It brings his wrath. It brings his wrath because he loves his people. And just think again about the whole setup of this book of Hosea. Imagine going and marrying a woman knowing that she's going to commit adultery and she's going to bear children that you're going to have to bring up as your children who aren't really your children because she's been adulterous. And then she's going to leave you and go off and be with another man. You're going to have to go out and purchase her back. That is what the Lord has done for us and with us He's married us, but we are unfaithful. And he paid for our sins, not with some shekels of silver, but with the blood of his son, to win us back to himself, to redeem us, to ransom us And now are we still idolatrous and spiritually adulterous? That is horrible. We need to put that far from our minds. We need to repent of that. We need to seek the Lord. We need to say, Lord, you've been good to us. Rehearse the goodness of God. Rehearse the gospel mercies that He's given us. That we might be humble, less entitled, less whiny, more thankful, more worshipful. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this word that shocks us. We're uncomfortable by some of the things we read in these chapters, but boy, that's nothing compared to how ugly and deep our sin is. So have mercy on us, and grant us repentance and faith and gratitude that we might live as your joyful, redeemed, and thankful people. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Well tomorrow we're going to go right on to Isaiah chapter eleven. Isaiah. I'm saying every name but the name of this book. Hosea Chapters 11 and 12, and uh oh, it's a beautiful start to Hosea 11 tomorrow. We'll peek at it. We'll get there tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.