Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On our 1033rd day together in the Word of God, we are wrapping up Hosea with Hosea 13 and 14. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you for the opportunity we have to dig into your word once again together. We pray that as we read and think about, reflect on Hosea 13 and 14, That your Holy Spirit would, by your power, write these words on our hearts, that we might receive your word from you and glorify you in our response of faith and obedience to you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Hosea thirteen and fourteen. When Ephraim spoke there was trembling. He was exalted in Israel, but he incurred guilt through Baal and died. And now they sin more and more, and make for themselves metal images, idols skilfully made of their silver, all of them the work of craftsmen. It is said of them, Those who offer human sacrifice kiss calves Therefore, they shall be like the morning mist, or like the dew that goes early away, or like the chaff that swirls from the threshing floor. Or like smoke from a window. But I am the Lord your God From the land of Egypt, you know no God but me, and besides me there is no Savior. It was I who drew you in the wilderness in the land of drought, but when they had grazed, they became full. They were filled. And their heart was lifted up. Therefore they forgot me. So I am to them like a lion, like a leopard, I will lurk beside the way. I will fall upon them like a bear, robbed of her cubs, I will tear open their breast. And there I will devour them like a lion, as a wild beast would rip them open. He destroys you, O Israel, for you are against me, against your helper Where now is your king to save you in all your cities? Where are your rulers, those of whom you said, Give me a king and princes? I gave you a king in my anger, and I took him away in my wrath. The Ephraim of iniquity, the sorry, the iniquity of Ephraim, the iniquity of Ephraim, is bound up. His sin is kept in store. The pangs of childbirth come for him, but he is an unwise son. For at the right time He does not present himself at the opening of the womb. I shall ransom them from the power of Sheol. I shall redeem them from death. O death, where are your plagues? O Sheol, where is your sting? Compassion is hidden from my eyes. Though he may flourish among his brothers, the east wind, the wind of the Lord shall come rising from the wilderness And his fountain shall dry up, his spring shall be parched, it shall strip his treasury of every precious thing. Samaria shall bear her guilt, because she has rebelled against her God. They shall fall by the sword, their little ones shall be dashed in pieces, and their pregnant women ripped open. Return, O Israel, to the Lord your God, for you have stumbled because of your iniquity. Take with you words and return to the Lord and say to him, Take away all iniquity, except what is good, and we will pay with bulls the vows of our lips. Assyria shall not save us, we will not ride on horses, and we will say no more our God to the work of our hands. In you the orphan finds mercy. I will heal their apostasy. I will love them freely, for my anger has turned from them. I will be like the dew to Israel. He shall blossom like the lily. He shall take root like the trees of Lebanon. His shoots shall spread out, his beauty shall be like the olive, and his fragrance like Lebanon. They shall return and dwell beneath my shadow They shall flourish like the grain, they shall blossom like the vine, their fame shall be like the wine of Lebanon. O Ephraim, what have I to do with idols? It is I who answer and look after you. I am like an evergreen cypress. From me comes your fruit. Whoever is wise. Let him understand these things. Whoever is discerning, let him know them. For the ways of the Lord are right, and the upright walk in them. But transgressors stumble in them. That's Hosea 13 and 14. It's the conclusion of this powerful minor prophet. who was called to such a difficult task in his life that we read about in the first couple of chapters, and then was called to bring a painful message to the people of God. And there's a lot of painful things still in these chapters, but I think we see we see the compassion of God, the grace of God, the call, the pleading of God. So, Ephraim is the northern kingdom, Israel. That's who Hosea is primarily speaking to. I said before, Hosea and Isaiah are contemporaries. They're preaching at the same time, prophesying at the same time. Time, Hosea primarily to the Northern Kingdom, and Isaiah to the Southern Kingdom. The big sins of the Northern Kingdom were two. The sin of Uh Jeroboam, the very first king who made the golden calves in Bethel and Dan, and told the people to worship, to bow down at the golden calves. Telling them that this was their way to worship Yahweh. So they were still worshiping the Lord, they thought, but they had recrafted the Lord into their own imagination to be like a calf. You know, like the golden calf they made during the Exodus. But then the second sin that was added to it was the sin of Ahab and Jezebel. And that was the introduction of Baal worship, the worship of a false God. So there are two kinds of idolatry that are condemned in Scripture: worshiping the one true God. in a distorted way so that you actually change the attributes of God because you don't worship him the way he should be worshipped. You make him less holy, less unique. less divine, less transcendent, less powerful, less less. Whenever you change God, you're always you're always reducing him because he is maximally perfect in all of his ways. So that's one type of idolatry. The other type of idolatry, of course, is worshiping a flat-out God substitute, saying, I've got Baal, I've got Asherah. Well, God condemns both In fact, in verse 2, it is said of them, those who offer human sacrifice kiss calves. Those who offer human sacrifice, that's part of Baal worship. Those who kiss calves are like the calf worship of the golden calves. It's basically the same thing. Baal worship, calf worship are essentially the same thing as what he's saying They are like the morning mist, they are like the dew that goes away, like the chaff, like the smoke. They will not last, because they have put their hopes in false gods, and the false gods are nothing, but God reminds them that He is the one true God. He's the Lord, Yahweh, your God, from the land of Egypt. You know no God but me, and besides me there is no Savior. This is exactly what we heard on Sunday, by the way, from Isaiah 45, almost exactly the same words as we hear in Isaiah 45 and verse 22 and throughout that section. There's only one God. So if you change The attributes of that one God to sort of custom fit him to your imagination, you're no longer dealing with God, you're dealing with your imagination. And if you go to some other God and you make an image of that other God, you're also dealing with your imagination. So either you are worshiping the one true God, the way he has revealed himself, in the way that he has commanded Walking in obedience to his revelation, or you are worshiping your imagination, and you are not worshiping the one true God. That's what the Bible says very clearly. There is no other God but God. Now there are demons. And actually, Paul in 1 Corinthians 10 tells us if you if you drink the cup of idols, you're actually drinking the cup of demons. If you sit at the table of idol worship, you're sitting at the table of demons. If you will not worship the one true God, you're worshiping your imagination or something far, far worse. And so it is in love that God punishes. That God sends them into exile, that God destroys them. Because they have cut themselves off from the only hope they have for life. So because of their foolishness, they don't present themselves at the opening of the womb at the right time. In other words, they're foolish. They're not going where they need to go, which is to God. A baby, when it's time to be born, needs to present itself at the opening of the womb to be born. People, when we are in distress, need to go to the one true God for salvation. But look at the grace of God. Verse 14, I shall ransom them from the power of Sheol. I shall redeem them from death. O death, where are your plagues? O Sheol, where is your sting? This is the resurrection of Jesus that ultimately provides that deliverance. If the Lord is our deliverer, not even death can terrify us. But right now, in their current state, compassion is hidden from God's eyes because they're not seeking the Lord. And so they flourish and they're sent away. They're going to bear their guilt because they've rebelled, but that won't be the final word. There is an invitation to return. There is an invitation to cry out. And God even gives them the prayer to pray. In verses 2 and 3 of chapter 14, God gives them the prayer to pray. Take away all iniquity, except what is good. We will pay with bulls the vows of our lips. Assyria shall not save us. We will not ride our horses. We will say no more, our God, to the work of our hands. In you the orphan finds mercy Faith, obedience, repentance. These are the key aspects here. They're crying out to God in faith, take away all iniquity, accept what is good. Obedience, we will pay with bulls the vows of our lips, what God has commanded we will do, and repentance we will not anymore rely on these things. But we'll turn to you for mercy. To cry out to God, we must have faith. We must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him, as what Hebrews 11 says. We must have faith. We must obey what he's revealed. And we must turn from our idols. And God says, I will heal. I will love. I will be like dew. I will be like help you blossom and spread. And dwell beneath my shadow. Look at this beautiful language of love. It is not that God hates his people when he disciplines us. It's that he hates our idolatry because of what it does to us. He hates our sin because of what it does to us. It's kind of like watching a loved one who is a drug addict or an alcoholic and they're and they're drinking or drugging themselves to death and you hate the alcohol and you hate the drugs because they're destroying the person you love. And you may have to exercise some tough love and let them face the consequences of their actions because you know Until they reach rock bottom, they're not going to turn, but they need to turn. And as soon as they turn, you welcome them. That's what God is doing. He loves his people. But if we are guilty of idolatry, if we are looking to the world for our hope God says turn away, turn away from the Syria, turn away from horses, turn away from politics, turn away from nationalism, turn away from wealth and trust in your job and your position, turn away from social media chatter and then talking heads on the cable news programs and seek the Lord. Because he and he alone is faithful. Let's pray. Father, we are all prone toward idolatry in our sinful human hearts, and yet we are all called by your Spirit to turn to you. To cry out to you for mercy, to repent of our idols. Show us our idols that we might confess them to you. And lead us in paths of righteousness. For your name's sake, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Hosea 13 and 14. Because we're done with Hosea, we're going to go back to 2 Corinthians tomorrow and pick up with chapter 11. I hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.