Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's so good to be with you on day 1025. our 1025th day together in the Word of God as we are in Hosea 3 and 4. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the prophet Isaiah. We thank you for his faithfulness in being willing to do the difficult, nearly impossible things that you called him to do. Well, we thank you even more for what it shows us about your heart, how much you love us, how much you pursue us, how much you forgive us. Teach us from Hosea 3 and 4 today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hosea 3. And four. And the Lord said to me, Go again. Love a woman who is loved by another man, and is an adulteress, even as the Lord loves the children of Israel though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins. So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver, and a homer, and a lethic of barley And I said to her, You must dwell as mine for many days. You shall not play the whore or belong to another man, so will I also be to you. For the children of Israel shall dwell many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or pillar, without ephod or household gods. Afterward, the children of Israel shall return and seek the Lord their God and David their king, and they shall come in fear to the Lord. and to his goodness in the latter days. Hear the word of the Lord, O children of Israel, for the Lord has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. There is no faithfulness or steadfast love. And no knowledge of God in the land. There is swearing, lying, murder, stealing, and committing adultery. They break all bounds, and bloodshed follows bloodshed Therefore the land mourns, and all who dwell in it languish, and also the beasts of the field and the birds of the heavens, and even the fish of the sea, are taken away. Yet no one, yet let no one contend, and let no one accuse, for with you is my contention, O priest. You shall stumble by day. The prophet also shall stumble with you by night, and I will destroy your mother. My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge Because you have rejected knowledge, I reject you from being a priest to me. And since you have forgotten the law of your God, I will also forget your children. The more they increased, the more they sinned against me. I will change their glory into shame. They feed on the sin of my people. They are greedy for their iniquity And it shall be like people, like priests, I will punish them for their ways and repay them for their deeds. They shall eat, but not be satisfied. They shall play the whore, but not multiply. Because they have forsaken the Lord, to cherish whoredom, wine, and new wine, which take away the understanding My people inquire of a piece of wood, and and their walking staff gives them oracles. For a spirit of whoredom has led them astray, and they have left their God to play the whore. They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains and burn offerings on the hills under oak, poplar, and terebenth, because their shade is good. Therefore, your daughters play the whore, and your brides commit adultery. I will not punish your daughters when they play the whore. Nor your brides when they commit adultery, for the men themselves go aside with prostitutes and sacrifice with cult prostitutes, and a people without understanding shall come to ruin Though you play the whore, O Israel, let not Judah become guilty. Enter not into Gilgal, nor go up to Beth-Avan, and swear not, as the Lord lives, like a stubborn heifer Israel is stubborn. Can the Lord now feed them? Like a lamb in a broad pasture? Ephraim is joined to idols. Leave him alone. When their drink is gone, they give themselves to whoring. Their rulers deeply, dearly love shame. A wind has wrapped them in its wings. Hosea three and four we get Very similar to what we got in 1 and 2, where in Hosea 1 and 2, Hosea was told to take a wife of Hordom, and he did, and he married a woman who bore one child to him. Jezreel, and then bore two other children that were not his children, but she was his wife. This is no mercy and not my people. It was to show the pain of the unfaithfulness of Israel and and God's pronouncement of judgment against them. That they're going to suffer defeat at the hand of their enemies, that they're not going to receive mercy from the Lord, that they're not gonna they're gonna be disowned as God's people. But then Suddenly, all of a sudden on a turn, God says, I will actually bring you back. And even people who are not my people will be brought in as my people. And those who have not received mercy will receive mercy. If you read Romans nine to eleven, you get a good understanding of this. How this worked itself out in history, not only in the history of Israel, but in the history of all of God's people. God cut off Israel for their stubborn rejection of him. and grafted in Gentiles who were not the people of God, so that he could then have mercy upon Israel and graft them in. uh back in and this is this is outlined for us as I said just if you read and look at Romans nine to eleven and and maybe you could watch the devotionals then I did on those to understand that more. But but it's this idea that we're all so unfaithful to God. But sometimes we can just say these words like, oh yes, we're unfaithful to God, we worship idols, we're spiritual adulterers. We say the words. What does that really mean? Hosea was charged by God to do painful things. So now there's this woman It's the same woman, Gomer is her name. And she's now not only been unfaithful to him, but she's left him and has gone to be loved by another man as an adulteress, and then that other man has abandoned her So that she's now available for sale in the slave market. She's needing to be bought back. He buys her back for fifteen shekels of silver and a Homer and a Lefock of barley. Not very much money, but Just imagine, while she lived with him, she was unfaithful. And then she gets, she leaves him And is living with another man who then no longer wants her and and Hosea buys her back This is a picture of the exile. The first picture from chapter one is a picture of the idolatrous worship. Of the Israelites while they're in the promised land, while they're in the Lord's house, while they're living with Yahweh their husband, they're being adulterous. They're playing the whore with their idols. But then they're gonna leave. They're gonna be without a king, without prince. without land, but also during this time without sacrifice or pillar, ephod or household gods. In other words The temple's going to be destroyed, and all the God-ordained worship will be gone, but so will all the idolatrous worship And their hearts will learn to long for the worship of the one true God at the temple. And it's true, historically, that once the people of God are brought back from the exile, they do not worship idols in that outward way. They still don't worship God the way they should, but they're not any longer as obviously and openly spiritually adulterous. And then that's the picture that Hosea has to endure. And this is this, you know, as a husband, as a father of three children, this is so painful for even to think about. the depth of the of the agony for for Hosea to enact this in his own life. But then the Lord gives us in chapter 4 his own heart. He pours out his own heart. He has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. He has a dispute with the children of Israel. And what is it? There's no faithfulness or steadfast love and no knowledge of God in the land. God's rule over his people, as described and celebrated in the Psalms, comes back again and again to being characterized by two things, steadfast love and faithfulness. Steadfast love is God's heart toward his people. It is a heart to do us good and not evil. It is a heart to bless us. It is a heart to be merciful and gracious to us, despite the fact that we deserve the opposite, and faithfulness is God's commitment to keep every one of his promises and to never change. He looks for the same thing in return from us, that we would have a heart to love him, and that we would be faithful, but there is none. And there's none on the par on the um horizontal level either. There's none human to human Marriage vows are broken, you know, the community is unraveling at the seams. It is terrible. There's no knowledge of God in the land. What there is this Swearing, lying, murder, stealing, committing adultery. It's terrible. It's terrible. And They're destroyed for lack of knowledge. Now, who is supposed to give the people knowledge? Well, in verse 4, God takes up a contention against the priest. In verse 5, God takes up a contention against the prophet. Priests and prophets were the ones who were supposed to give the people knowledge of God. The priests were tasked with teaching the law of God. Verse 6 says, you've forgotten the law of God. Prophets were supposed to bring forth the word of the Lord and how to apply that law in their day-to-day life and the ways that they were falling short of that. But the prophets, so many of the so-called prophets were really false prophets. just telling the people what they wanted to hear. So the priests weren't teaching God's word, and the prophets were just telling people what they wanted to hear. That's why there's no knowledge of God in the land. So God says he's going to punish. They are feeding on the sin of my people. They're greedy for their iniquity. It's good money being a prophet who tells people what they want to hear. People will come to the priest if by doing the outward steps they can sort of be checked off as you're right with God and the priest doesn't tell them what the law of God actually requires. That's a successful gig. That'll get you a mega church. Just say it bluntly. That'll get you a lot of social media followers. Just tell people what they want to hear. Tell them how wonderful they are. Gloss over the actual Word of God. But God's going to punish. God's going to punish them for their ways, the people and the priest alike. Because abandoning the knowledge of God, it's not like they're left with nothing. When people abandon the knowledge of God, it doesn't go to a vacuum. Something rushes in and takes its place, and look how ridiculous it is what has rushed in and taken its place. Look at verse 12. My people inquire of a piece of wood. And their walking staff gives them oracles. Their walking staff? They won't seek the Lord in his law, because that says a bunch of stuff we don't like. They don't really want to hear what the true prophets are saying. The true prophets are always being shunned, mocked, ridiculed, persecuted. Jesus said, Blessed are those when they persecute you, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Instead? Let's pray to my walking staff. It'll tell me something helpful. Let's check the horoscope Let's have my palm read. Let's read the tea leaves. You know, whatever. Whatever kind of ridiculous nonsense that is completely empty and hollow. It's just wrong. It's just wrong. So God's gonna punish them. God's going to punish for them, not because he hates them, but because he loves them. If he hated them, he wouldn't care if they were unfaithful, if they didn't know him, but because he loves them. He wants them to repent. And so he's going to do all of these things. So that they'll be ashamed of their whoring and eventually return to the Lord. What how can we apply this to ourselves? Well, I think it's pretty obvious. We need to seek the Lord in the places where he has said he will speak to us, in his word, and in sound preaching and in the right worship of God according to his word. That's where he meets us. Sometimes he'll say to us things we don't want to hear. Oftentimes he exposes our idols. And calls us to repent because he loves us. But the alternative is to say, nah, I don't really want that word. I want something else. So we turn on the cable news, or we go to social media, or we go to fortune tellers and tarot card readers and whatever or or we just play the lottery hoping to strike it rich or or we just whatever doom scroll through social media feed It's nothing. It's nothing. It's mind-numbing. It's empty. It's hopeless. God has the words of life and he loves us. We need to go to him and seek him. We need to be dedicated to him. We need to turn to him. He's been gracious to us. He's loved us. He's pursued us again and again. We need to respond. Let's pray. Father, thank you for loving us with a love that is rich and strong and full and free. Thank you for loving us far more than we could ever begin to imagine or understand. Help us to love you in return, to grow in our love for you and our faith in you and our knowledge of you day by day. Thank you for your word that teaches us the truth. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, that is Hosea chapters 3 and 4. Tomorrow, I believe we're going back to 2 Corinthians. Hope you can join me for that. And I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.