Good morning, welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Our 18th week, our second day, we're looking at the second half of Mark 11. We looked at the triumphal entry. Yesterday, today we're looking at the cleansing of the temple. And so we're asking this question, how has the house of prayer for all nations become a den of robbers? Let's pray. Father in heaven, we need you to speak to us through your word. We need your Holy Spirit to make your word effective, powerful. To penetrate our hearts, to show us Christ, to show us our sin, to draw us close to you. We pray that you would do this work in us today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Mark 11, 15 to 33. And they came to Jerusalem, and he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold. and those who bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons, and he would not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple And he was teaching them and saying to them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations, but you have made it a den of robbers? And the chief priests and the scribes heard it, and were seeking a way to destroy him, for they feared him, because all the crowd was astonished at his teaching. And when evening came they went out of the city. As they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered away to its roots. And Peter remembered and said to him, Rabbi, look, the fig tree that you cursed has withered And Jesus answered them, Have faith in God. Truly I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, be taken up and thrown into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him. Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours. And whenever you stand praying, forgive. If you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also, who is in heaven, may forgive you your trespasses. And they came again to Jerusalem, and he was walking in the temple. The chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to him, and they said to him, By what authority are you doing these things? Or who gave you this authority to do them? Jesus said to them, I will ask you one question, answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? Answer me And they discussed it with one another, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say, Why then did you not believe him? But shall we say from man? They all held that John really was a prophet. So they answered Jesus, We do not know. And Jesus said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. I'm guessing that several years ago you probably received one of the phishing scam emails from some African country promising to give you millions of dollars if you just sent them your bank account information. What I hate most is that some of those emails would begin with greetings in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ This version of that fishing scam was playing on the feelings of Christian Brotherhood to project an air of trustworthiness. They were using the name of Jesus Christ to scam people out of money. But of course they're not the only ones. In 1517, Martin Luther was outraged by the scamming of God's people to raise money for St. Peter's Basilica in Rome This particular scam was the selling of indulgences by Johann Tetzel for a sizable donation and some act of penance. The Roman Catholic Church promised people relief from any temporal consequences for their sin. Sadly. People in all parts of the world have used the name of God and the worship of God as a tool for personal gain The religious leaders who ran the temple had money changers and animal sellers in the court of the Gentiles, exchanging people's currency for temple coins, and then selling them sacrificial animals for use in worship The temple was one of the wonders of the ancient world, and the chief priests enjoyed a wonderful scheme from this business. Jesus made his own opinion on this issue of the scamming religious worshippers very clear. He overturned the tables of the money changers. He drove out the sellers of animals. Not only did these people make a nice profit, But their business also crowded out the court of the Gentiles, which was the worship space set aside for non-Jews who wanted to come and pray to God and learn about Him. No instruction and precious little prayer could happen in a place that was so crowded with money changers and animal sellers Jesus also cursed the fig tree, as we read yesterday, as a symbol of judgment against the Jewish leadership because they were putting on a good show, but they had no actual fruit to show. So it's easy to get outraged at some of these things. Fishing scams by email, Roman Catholic indulgences, Jewish money changers. But here's the question. Are we guilty of the same kinds of sins in our lives and in our churches? Do we seek to grow large churches? To advance our names and line our pockets? Do we provide hindrance for those who would come and learn more about Jesus by crowding him out in exchange for lesser things? Anytime we are self-serving in our church life or do anything to prevent people from seeing Jesus, we are in the wrong and we must repent. May the Lord give us the grace to examine our hearts and truly seek His honor and glory above all else. Let's pray before we go to Psalm 88. Heavenly Father, make your church at Forest Hill faithful to you. May we not be serving anyone's personal agenda or anyone's fame or anyone's glory but that of King Jesus. The kingdom of God may Your truth, may your gospel, may your son, our Savior, be the very heartbeat of our church and life together. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, I wanted to pray before we turn to Psalm 88, because Psalm 88 is very different. So I'm actually tempted to skip over this one. It's one of the most dark and sort of depressing psalms that we have uh in in the Psalter. But it's important to pray these kinds of prayers too. Yesterday we were in Psalm 87, which was very joyful about singers and dancers and springs of joy, and here we have the polar opposite. Because that's life. Life is sometimes full of joy and dancing and singing and rejoicing and uh celebration and sometimes we're in the depths. So let's go to Psalm 88. It's a song. It's a psalm of the sons of Korah. It's written to the choir master according to Mahelef Limoth. It's a masculine of Heman the Ezrahite. O Lord God of my salvation, I cry out day and night before you. Let my prayer come before you. Incline your ear to my cry For my soul is full of troubles, and my life draws near to Sheol. I am counted among those who go down to the pit I am a man who has no strength, like one set loose among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, like those whom you remember no more. For they are cut off from your hand. You have put me in the depths of the pit, in the regions dark and deep. Your wrath lies heavy upon me, and you overwhelm me with all your waves You have caused my companions to shun me. You have made me a horror to them. I am shut in so that I cannot escape. My eye grows dim through sorrow. Every day I call upon you, O Lord. I spread out my hands to you. Do you work wonders for the dead? Do the departed rise up to praise you? Is your steadfast love declared in the grave? Or your faithfulness in Abadon? Or your wonders known in the darkness? Or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? But I, O Lord, cry to you. In the morning my prayer comes before you, O Lord, why do you cast my soul away? Why do you hide your face from me? Afflicted and close to death from my youth up, I suffer your terrors. I am helpless. Your wrath has swept over me. Your dreadful assaults destroy me. They surround me like a flood all day long. They close in on me together. You have caused my beloved and my friend to shun me. My companions have become darkness. Now, Psalm 88 is not in the Psalter just because there are times when we are overwhelmed with sadness and depression and despair, and we need language to pray in those times. But ultimately it's pointing us to Christ. How is this pointing us to Christ? It is when Christ was abandoned by all of his friends. When the weight of the wrath of God was being laid upon him for our sins, when he was cut off from all help on earth and even from heaven. And he was suffering under the weight of condemnation for us and for our salvation. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. How can we even find the words to thank you that your son was willing to come from the glories of heaven, from the intimacy of fellowship with you? From the joyful worship of angels, who's willing to come and descend into the darkness of the pit of despair for us and for our salvation. When we feel overwhelmed by despair, when we are sad, when we feel surrounded by darkness and without a friend in the world, may we remember that Christ sank even lower For us and for our salvation. He is a man of sorrows. He is acquainted with grief, and he is a sympathetic high priest, merciful to us. And may we go to him in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels and praying the Psalms. Hope you can join me tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.