Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are here in week 36 in the Gospel of John, John chapter 13. Yesterday we looked at Jesus washing the disciples' feet and speaking of yesterday and looked at. Look at me. I'm back. Uh I don't know if you noticed. If you don't watch it on video, you just listen to the audio, you wouldn't notice. But yesterday and the day before, my camera wasn't working. And I didn't even realize it, sent the videos out there, and uh didn't even realize that I wasn't even visibly on them. Not that that Means much. Probably makes a better video. Anyway, today we're going to be looking at John 13, 21 to 35, and we're going to be asking this question, how will the world recognize the disciples of Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and for your word and for your Son, our Savior. Thank you that we can gather together here day by day. Spend time in your word and grow in our knowledge of Jesus. We pray that you would grow us in love and understanding and obedience by faith of our Lord and Savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so when you heard that question, how will the world recognize the disciples of Jesus if you're my age or my generation or older? You'll know the old uh praise chorus. They will know we are Christians by our love, by our love. Yes, they'll know we are Christians by our love. No, I'm not going to sing it for you because I don't want yours to bleed. But we're going to look at John 13, 21 to 35, and see that this famous worship chorus from years ago comes right from today's passage. After saying these things, Jesus was troubled in his spirit and testified, Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me. The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke. One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining at table at Jesus' side. So Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Jesus of whom he was speaking. So that disciple, leaning back against Jesus, said to him, Lord, who is it? Jesus answered, It is he to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have dipped it. So when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot Then, after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus said to him, What you are going to do, do quickly. Now, no one at the table knew why he had said this to him. Some thought that because Jesus had the money back, Jesus was telling him buy what we need for the feast, or that he should give something to the poor. So after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out, and it was night. When he had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and glorify him at once. Little children. Yet a little while I am with you. You will see me, and just as I said to the Jews, so now I also say to you, where I am going, you cannot come. A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this, all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. So that's our question for today. How will the world recognize the disciples of Jesus? And it's by the love we have for one another. But before we deal with that question I do want to spend a little bit of time in the opening part of this passage because it's a puzzling series of events, especially as recorded here by John. Jesus says, one of you is going to betray me. The disciples have no idea. Sometimes we think, looking back on it, clearly they must have known. that Judas Iscariot was a bad guy. They must have seen the the glimmer of evil in his eye. Apparently not. Apparently they didn't know. I mean Judas was trusted with the money bag. He was the treasurer of the group. He was one of the most trusted of the disciples. He wasn't part of the inner three of Peter, James, and John, but he seemed to have a position of of trust, of responsibility. Surely Jesus wouldn't have entrusted the money back to someone who was unreliable, who was going to betray him. Well, Simon Peter, Peter wants to know, who is it? John is there next to Jesus. John's probably the youngest of the disciples. That's why he's the closest to Jesus probably. When John refers to himself in his own gospel, he never names his own name. John does not want his gospel to be about him. He named John the Baptist, but he never names himself John the Apostle, John the Evangelist And so he always refers to himself as the one whom Jesus loves. It's like John never got over the fact that Jesus loved him. He never outgrew that song, speaking of old songs, Jesus loves me, this I know. for the Bible tells me so. He never outgrew the wonder reflected in that song that Jesus would love us. So John asks, who is it? And Jesus answers John privately, quietly, I'm going to dip the morsel of bread and give it to somebody. He gives it to Judas Iscariot. But then it says, Verse 27, After you have taken the morsel, Satan entered into him. And Jesus said to him, What you are going to do, do quickly. Some people have read this like Judas was a helpless victim. What was he supposed to do if Satan entered into him? The other gospel writers fill in a little bit more about Judas Iscariot's character and tell us that he was the keeper of the money bag and he used to help himself to what was in it. that he was a greedy man, he was a covetous man, he was a materialistic man. When Jesus said you cannot serve both God and wealth, Judas Iscariot had chosen to serve wealth. So this is not against Judas's character, even though he kept it well hidden from everyone else. It wasn't against his will. He went out and did this of his own accord, even though Satan also did it through him to use him. Ultimately it was to accomplish God's will. So we see this like even when we sin Even when Satan is plotting and scheming, God is at work and he's ordering those very same events, activities for his glory, for the good of his people, because this is how Jesus gets to the cross. to pay for our sins, to make atonement for us, to to purchase our redemption. So the purchase, Judas was thinking just thirty pieces of silver to turn over this rabbi. But the purchase that Jesus had in mind is that he was going to purchase his people by his very blood, and he carried that out through The greed of Judah Isariot and the scheming of Satan. God is always in control. We never need to be afraid. Oh my sin has messed up God's plan for my life. Or oh Satan's at work, so nothing's gonna go well. No, God is always at work, and He has all those things under His hand. So let's get back to our focus question. How's the world going to know we're followers of Jesus? Well, they're going to know we are Christians by our love, by the love we have for one another. Wow, that's kind of convicting because I don't think that if you took a survey of like a hundred random non-Christians You ask them what's the distinguishing characteristic of a Christian, I don't think the first thing they would tell you is love. They might say they're self-righteous, they're judgmental, they're condescending, they're hypocritical, maybe they're hyper political, whatever. But they're probably not gonna come up with they're so loving They love just like Jesus loved. So that kind of makes us feel bad But what does Jesus mean here? Does it mean that we should all just feel bad and we should all just quit because we don't love like Jesus loves? Jesus says, just as I have loved you. you ought to love. And this is really the key to being able to love like Jesus is being loved by Jesus. 1 John 4 19, John writes, We love because he first loved us. We need to understand the free, full, forgiving love of Jesus, the very love of Jesus that would look at Judas. And hand him a piece of bread and then tell him what you must do, do quickly, knowing that Judas was going to go betray him and he was going to end up on the cross. He loved us that much. That was love for us. John here Decades later, probably wrote the gospel some forty to sixty years after these events took place, and he's still held by the grip of how much Jesus has loved him. How can we love one another even as Jesus loved us? Because Jesus has loved us. And we receive that love and we share that love with one another. Romans 5 says, while we were still weak. At the right time Christ died for the ungodly, for one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners Christ died for us. So we are to be loved by Christ to receive that love. And then we're to share that love with one another, to love one another. More than anything else, we are committed. We are supposed to be committed to loving one another and being willing to sacrifice for each other, not because the other person deserves it, not because they've met our standard, not because they're serving us, not because they're meeting our expectations. But because Jesus has loved us freely and undeservedly, and Jesus has called us to love them freely and undeservedly. I think as Christians, because we have clear moral standards that God has given us, and we're aware of how we fall short of those clear moral standards, and we're also aware of how other people fall short of those clear moral standards, it's easy to spend a lot of our time condemning ourselves and feeling guilty and shameful and then condemning others in our minds as those who don't measure up. We can do this to fellow Christians, not to mention the world with politicians and things like that. We can just have this judgmentalism of ourselves and of others. Judgmentalism. This merit-based you need to earn my love kind of a mentality is not Christ-like All these knuckleheads who were around the Last Supper with Jesus, none of them understood what he was going to do, what was happening, how much he loved them. They were fighting about which one was greatest. They were confused that any of them would betray him. They were they were clueless knuckleheads, really, like us, like me. And yet Jesus loved them freely, and Jesus loves me freely. So that should be the heartbeat of our lives. That should be what drives us is to say I'm gonna love. I'm gonna first of all let myself be loved by Jesus and receive that love and and believe in that love and trust in that love, and then I'm gonna let it flow through me to others. When we're loved by Jesus and we let him love others through us That's when Jesus says the world clearly sees who we are and who he is. Let's pray. Father, thank you for sending your son. Lord Jesus, thank you for so freely and willingly loving us when we were so undeserving. Thank you. Help us to love you more. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you. Join me tomorrow as we continue in John 13 and wrap up week 36 together. Have a blessed day in the Lord.