Good morning. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and this is Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. It's our fourth week together. We're in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 8, today, first half of chapter 8. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Father in heaven, thank you so much. for meeting with us, for teaching us, for showing us more of Jesus, more of ourselves, more of your will for us. Continue to be our teacher and our guide and grow us. In loving Christ and following him. Today we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Matthew 8, 1 to 17. We're looking to answer this question: how does faith bring real understanding? And we'll be looking at the centurion as our model for that in Matthew 8. When he came down from the mountain, great crowds followed him. And behold, a leper came to him and knelt before him, saying, Lord, if you will, you can make me clean. And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I will be clean And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone, but go. Show yourself to the priest and offer the gift that Moses commanded as a proof to them. When he had entered Capernaum A centurion came forward to him, appealing to him, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly. And he said to him, I will come and heal him. But the centurion replied, Lord, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof. But only say the word, and my servant will be healed, for I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, Go and he goes, and to another come and he comes, and to my servant do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, Truly I tell you, with no one in Israel have I found such faith. I tell you, many will come from east and west and recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, while the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And to the centurion Jesus said, Go Let it be done for you as you have believed, and the servant was healed at that very moment. And when Jesus entered Peter's house, he saw his mother-in-law lying sick with a fever. He touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she rose and began to serve him That evening they brought to him many who were oppressed by demons, and he cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick. This was to fulfil what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. He took our illnesses, and bore our diseases. God's ways are so much different from ours. We think that hard work, determination, genius, and perhaps a bit of lucky insight are the keys to gaining understanding. to how the world really works. In thinking this way, we're quick to credit our own natural ability, effort, and even something as meaningless as luck, rather than humble ourselves and see things as they really are. In the episode of The Healing of the Centurion Servant, God challenges our preconceived notions with this wonderful truth. Faith flowers in humility and bears the fruit of understanding. No one in all of the Gospels shows more true understanding of the true nature and power of Jesus than the pagan Roman centurion. He alone in this scene seems to really understand how things work. He understands what great authority Jesus really has and how it can be exercised as he determines. Some might credit his military career for granting him the experience necessary to have this understanding. After all, don't we always say that experience is the best teacher? But Jesus sees clearly that it is not his experience which is so impressive. But his faith. The faith the centurion has shows itself first in his humility. Much as the flower produces the fruit on a tree, so too humility is the flower of faith. And understanding is the mature fruit of the faith that is exercised. So as faith grows, it brings forth the flower of humility and then the fruit of understanding So if we want real understanding and insight into the true nature of the world, we must trust the Lord and humble ourselves May the Lord be pleased to give us the grace of faith and humility and to add to that true understanding. Let's turn to Psalm 18 now. This is a bit of a longer psalm, but it's a wonderful one. It's written to the choir master. It's a Psalm of David. The servant of the Lord, who addressed the words of this song to the Lord on the day when he delivered him from all the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul, he said, I love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock in whom I take refuge, my shield And the horn of my salvation, my stronghold, I call upon the Lord, and he is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies. The corrants of death cords of death encompassed me, the torrents of destruction assailed me, the cords of Sheol entangled me, the snares of death confronted me. In my distress I I called upon the Lord to my God. I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears. Then the earth reeled and rocked. The foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked, because he was angry. Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth, glowing coals flamed forth from him. He bowed the heavens and came down. Thick darkness was under his feet. He rode on a cherub and flew. He came swiftly on the wings of the wind. He made darkness his covering his canopy around him thick clouds dark with water. Out of the brightness before him hailstones and coals of fire broke through his clouds. The Lord also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High uttered his voice, Hailstones and coals of fire. And he sent out his arrows and scattered them. He flashed forth lightnings and routed them. Then the channels of the sea were seen. And the foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils He sent from on high. He took me. He drew me out of many waters. He rescued me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me. For they were too mighty for me. They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the Lord was my support. He brought me out into a broad place. He rescued me because he delighted in me The Lord dealt with me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands. He rewarded me, for I have kept the ways of the Lord. Lord, and have not wickedly departed from my God, for all his rules were before me, and his statutes I did not put away from me. I was blameless before him. I kept myself from guilt. So the Lord has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight. With the merciful, you show yourself merciful. With the blameless man you show yourself blameless, with the purified you show yourself pure, and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous. For you save a humble people, but the haughty eyes you bring down. For it is you who light my lamp. The Lord my God lightens my darkness, for by you I can run against a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall. This God, his way, is perfect. The word of the Lord proves true. He is a shield for all who take refuge in him. For who is God but the Lord? And who is a rock except our God? The God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights. He trains my hands for war so that my arm can bend a bow of bronze you have given me. The shield of your salvation, and your right hand supported me, and your gentleness made me great. You gave a wide place for my steps under me, and my feet did not slip I pursued my enemies and overtook them, and did not turn back till they were consumed. I thrust them through so that they were not able to rise. They fell under my feet, for you equipped me with strength for the battle. You made those who rise against me sink under me. You made my enemies turn their backs to me, and those who hated me I destroyed. They cried for help, but there was none to save me. They cried to the Lord, but he did not answer them. I beat them fine as dust before the wind. I cast them out like mire in the streets. You delivered me from strife with the people. You made me the head of the nations. People whom I had not known served me. As soon as they heard of me, they obeyed me. Foreigners came cringing to me. Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses. The Lord lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation, the God who gave me vengeance and subdued peoples under me. Who rescued me from my enemies? Yes, you exalted me above those who rose against me. You delivered me from the man of violence For this I will praise you, O Lord, among the nations, and sing to your name. Great salvation he brings to his king, and shows steadfast love to his anointing. We see a key here when he says David and his offspring. steadfast love to his anointed. Ultimately, while David wrote and sang this song, being delivered from his enemies, ultimately it is true of Christ, the righteous one, who is King of Kings who all foreigners bow down before him. Let's pray. Lord God, we thank you for Jesus We thank you that in Christ you are our fortress, our shield, our defender, our righteousness, our keeper You have given to Jesus the inheritance of the nations. You have made him King of kings and Lord of Lords, all his enemies are being subdued under his feet, and we are in him by faith. We are righteous through his righteousness. We have protection through his headship. And we thank you for Jesus our Savior. Father, lead us. Lead us to victory over the enemy of our souls who attacks us to distract us and tempt us and ensnare us Near us, protect us, deliver us by your steadfast love and for your glory. In Jesus' name, Amen Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again as we're walking through the Gospels and praying the Psalms. This one was a little bit longer because we had a longer psalm, but I hope it was a blessing to you. And tomorrow I hope to see you again. Have a blessed day in the Lord.