Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you could join me for the third day of our 17th week together in the Gospels and the Psalms. We are in Psalm 84 today when we pray, but we're in Mark 9, 30 to 50 for our gospel lesson, and we're asking this question, how serious is sin? How serious is sin? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word and for this time again when we could come together and study your word and seek your face. We pray that you would speak to our hearts and write your word on our hearts and be glorified in our lives as we draw closer to Jesus and learn to walk with him by faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Mark 9, verses 30 to 50. They went on from there and passed through Galilee, and he did not want anyone to know, for he was teaching his disciples, saying to them, The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and when he is killed, after three days he will rise. But they did not understand the saying, and were afraid to ask him And they came to Capernaum. And when he was in the house, he asked them, What were you discussing on the way? But they kept silent. For on the way, they had been arguing with one another about who was the greatest. And he sat down and called the twelve, and he said to them, If anyone would be first He must be last of all and servant of all. And he took a child and put him in the midst of them, and taking him in his arms, he said to them, Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives not me, but him who sent me. John said to him, Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him because he was not following us. But Jesus said, do not stop him. For no one who does a mighty work in my name will be able soon afterward to speak evil of me. For the one who is not against us is for us. For truly I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of cold water to drink, because you belong to Christ, will by no means lose his reward. Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea. And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell to the unquenchable fire. And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell. And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell, where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. For everyone will be salted with fire. Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will you make it salty again? Have salt in yourselves. and be at peace with one another. So how serious is sin A popular misunderstanding of Jesus and the Pharisees is that Jesus was softer and more lax on the issues of sin and obedience than the Pharisees, but in reality, nothing could be further from the truth An external legalism, such as the Pharisees taught and practiced, is based on a very light and trivial view of sin. To think we can arrange and manage the details of our lives and get sin under control by a long list of rules is to be deluded and to fail to see sin for the deadly and persistent enemy it really is. Jesus' view of sin was much more serious and his call to holiness much more radical. The real Jesus we find in the Gospels is not a Jesus of cheap grace and easy living. His voice is closer to the call echoed by John Owen, be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. Jesus calls for a radical, all-out war against sin. His saving grace gives us the power to kill sin by the indwelling Holy Spirit, not to manage, control, limit, or play with it. Salvation given by Jesus Christ brings a grace into our lives which is powerful and life-changing, not cheap and sin-coddling We do remain subject to the influence of remaining indwelling sin in our lives until we reach glory and are made fully like Jesus But we do not remain unchanged and powerless against sin. We can, we must cut it out, throw it away, put it to death No sacrifice will be too great, no loss will be too costly when we are fighting and killing sin. But let's be sure we understand something. We cannot do this on our own. We, in and of ourselves, are powerless against sin. The truth is we love it too much. Only Christ in us can kill sin. He overcame every temptation and defeated sin utterly and completely. He must abide in us and we must abide in him, having his words abide in us, walking in the power of his spirit, so that he can kill sin in us. We have this promise that he will never abandon us in this fight. We also have this promise that one day the fight will be over and we will be completely and perfectly victorious in Him. And that is good news. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 84 as we pray together. One of the things that helps us in the fight against sin is to realize how much more beautiful and how much more desirable the Lord and His presence and his blessing is in our lives. That's what Psalm 84 trains our hearts to do. It's written to the choir master, according to the Gittith. It's a psalm of the sons of Korah. How lovely is your dwelling place, O Lord of hosts! My soul longs, yes, faints for the courts of the Lord. My heart and flesh sing for joy to the living God Even the sparrow finds a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, at your altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God. Blessed are those who dwell in your house, ever singing your praise. Blessed are those whose strength is in you, in whose heart are the highways to Zion As they go through the valley of Bacah, they make it a place of springs. The early rain also covers it with pools. They go from strength to strength. Each one appears before God in Zion O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer. Give ear, O God of Jacob. Behold our shield, O God. Look on the face of your anointed. For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. For the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord bestows favor and honor. No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts. Blessed is the one who trusts in you. Love Psalm eighty-four. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, give us hearts that are marked out by the highways to Zion. Give us this longing, this deep longing to be in your presence. Give us confidence to trust in your promise. that each one of us who trust in you by your grace, each one of us will appear before you in Zion. And there we will be free from this fight against sin. We will be blessed forever. But even along the journey, Lord, even as we fight, And kill sin by the power of your Holy Spirit at work in us. Even in that journey, we go from strength to strength. As we go through the valley of Baca, we make it a place of springs because of the Holy Spirit. Who blesses us and renews us. So do that work in us today and day by day until we are face to face with you. Lord Jesus, we pray this in your name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels and learning to pray the Psalms. I hope today's devotional time and prayer time was a blessing to you. I hope you can join us again tomorrow. Have a blessed day. In the Lord.