Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We are getting to know our Savior better I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Our fourth day of our 14th week brings us to the second half of Mark 2. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and for this time we have to study your word together. Please write your word on our hearts. Please teach us by your Holy Spirit. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Mark 2, 18 to 28, and we're asking, how does Jesus transform religion? How does Jesus transform religion? Here's Mark 2, 18-28. Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. And people came and said to him, Why do John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them, Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day. No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. If he does, the patch tears away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear is made. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the wine will burst the skins, and the wine is destroyed, and so are the skins, but new wine is for fresh wineskins. One Sabbath he was going through the grain fields, and as they made their way, his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. And the Pharisees were saying to him, Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath? And he said to them, Have you never read what David did when he was in need and was hungry, he and those who were with him, how he entered the house of God in the time of Abiathar the high priest and ate the bread of the presence, which it is not lawful for any but the priest to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him. And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man. Not man for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. Should Christians fast and keep the Sabbath? If so, how should our fasting and Sabbath-keeping be different from non-Christians, like Jewish and Muslim people, who also fast and keep the Sabbath? In other words, does the coming of Jesus completely do away with such religious practices, or does he transform them in some way? Well, Jesus was asked why his disciples did not fast. And he explained that his presence with his disciples was cause for such joy that fasting was improper. Now, he also indicated that his disciples would indeed fast once he was no longer with them. But then he gave this unusual teaching about garments and wineskins. As if to further illustrate what Jesus means by his teaching about the unshrunk cloth and the new wine, Matthew immediately follows this saying with an account. of the disciples picking heads of grain in a field on the Sabbath, and Jesus' explanation that the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. That's in verses 27 and 28. So what does all this mean? Well, the coming of Jesus and his kingdom and the salvation that he brings into reality in the lives of his disciples is like this unshrunk cloth or this new wine. It is new in that God's people are no longer striving after righteousness and waiting for salvation. Jesus has come. He has purchased our forgiveness. He has given to us his perfect righteousness. The whole nature and shape of religion has changed from a striving to a resting, from a trying to earn favor with God to a giving thanks for his favor freely given in Christ. So, what do fasting and Sabbath-keeping look like in this new era of salvation? We don't fast to earn God's favor or to prove our own righteousness. That is as impossible as it is unnecessary. But we do fast. We fast to sharpen our hunger for Jesus. and to express our greater desire for Him than the pleasures of food. And our Sabbath keeping, likewise, keeping the Lord's day, is not about showing God how religious and disciplined we are. It's about resting in Christ. and enjoying him more fully on the Lord's Day. Jesus does not come to do away with religion, but to turn it on its head. We are not earning salvation. We are not showing how righteous we can be. We are not trying to impress God or other people as if that were possible. No, we are enjoying him We're resting in him. We're trusting in him. And we're training our hearts and even our bodies to long for him more. That is how Jesus transforms religion. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 70 because the Psalms also get transformed by the coming of Jesus as they find their fulfillment in Him, and we learn to pray them through Him. Psalm 70 to the choir master of David for the memorial offering Make haste, O God, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. Let them be put to shame and confusion who seek my life. Let them be turned back and brought to dishonor, who delight in my hurt Let them turn back because of their shame, who say, Aha, aha! May all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. May those who love your salvation say evermore, God is great. But I am poor. and needy. Hasten to help me, O God. You are my help and my deliverer. O Lord, do not delay So Jesus is the salvation of God. In verse 4, we see, may those who love your salvation. The word salvation there is actually the same word as the name of Jesus in Hebrew, Yeshua. Those who love God's salvation, God's Yeshua, say forevermore, God is great. God is the deliverer in Jesus God is our helper in Jesus, and we are poor and needy. We have no righteousness that we can prove before God, but we come to God for help and salvation through Jesus alone. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, thank you for sending us such a deliverer, such salvation as we have in your Son Jesus May we follow after Jesus with joy and gratitude, resting in what he has done, rejoicing in what he has done, and striving to seek first his kingdom and righteousness. For what has been given to us in Christ is worth more than everything in the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you as always, and I hope that tomorrow you can join me again. Have a blessed day in the Lord.