Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you as we wrap up week 23 today. We're in Luke 7, we're going to be wrapping up Luke chapter 7, looking at verses 36 to 50, and asking this question. How or do you know how much you've been forgiven? So the question is, do you know how much you've been forgiven? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Constant, faithful, steadfast, merciful, gracious. Lord, we need your love. We need your son. We need your Holy Spirit to be our teacher as we're in your word today. Please speak to us. Please draw our hearts close to Christ. Please build us up in Him. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Luke seven thirty six One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him. And he went into the Pharisees' house and reclined at table, and behold, a woman of the city, who was a sinner. When she learned that he was reclining at table in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster flask of ointment And standing beside him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head and kissed his feet and anointed them with ointment. Now, when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, If this man were a prophet, he would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him, for she is a sinner. And Jesus, answering, said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you. And he answered, Say it, teacher. A certain moneylender had two debtors. One owed 500 deneri, and the other fifty. When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both. Now which of them will love him more? Simon answered, The one I suppose for whom he cancelled the larger debt. And he said to him, You have judged rightly. Then turning toward the woman, he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house. You gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears, and wiped them with her hair You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in, she has not ceased to kiss my feet. You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little loves little. And he said to her, Your sins are forgiven. Then those who were at the table with him began to say among themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins? And he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. Today's passage has Jesus saying something very unusual. He actually tells a Pharisee, you have judged rightly. Sadly, for the Pharisee, he doesn't seem to fully grasp the significance of his correct conclusion. The question poised by Jesus was Obvious. So the correct conclusion was also obvious. However, the right application of the conclusion to the life of the Pharisee would have required humility and self-awareness. And these are two things which this Pharisee sadly lacked. So what about us? The superficial and incorrect way to understand what Jesus is teaching with this brief parable of the money lenders to debtors is to conclude that some of us have only a few sins that need to be forgiven by God, while others have a great number of bad sins which God must forgive. Thus, the respectable churchgoer who pays his taxes and drives safely would only need forgiveness from God equivalent to about 50 denarii. On the other hand, the vile sinner who is really messed up would need ten times as much forgiveness from God, right? Wrong. The teaching is similar to the time when Jesus said it is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. Jesus was not saying that some people are so spiritually healthy that they don't need Jesus. But rather he was saying that some people think they are so healthy that they think they do not need Jesus. It's the same here. Some people think they only need a little bit of forgiveness from God, and so they will only love little and forgive little themselves. Those who know the truth and who understand how much they need God's forgiveness will love much and forgive much. How can we know which of these descriptions applies to us? Well, first, are we tempted to think that years of walking with the Lord have so reduced our sin that we are now righteous and respectable and thus have very little for which we need to repent? Or are we actually aware, growing, growingly aware of our sin? So that we're more broken by it and more acutely aware of our need for forgiveness day by day as we grow in the Lord. Secondly, uh do we think the real problems in the world are out there in Hollywood, in politics, in the music industry, in the public schools, or do we see that our own hearts Are our biggest problem, and that we need salvation from ourselves. Third, how do we react when a notorious sinner comes to know the Lord? Do we rejoice with the angels in heaven, or do we question skeptically? And fourth, is our worship of God filled with love and gratitude, or is it just an empty routine, just a going through the motions? If you believe in Jesus and have received salvation in him, you have indeed been forgiven much. So let us love much and forgive much in response to all that has been given to us. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 115. Psalm 115, not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory for the sake of your steadfast love and faithfulness. Why should the nations say, Where is their God? Our God is in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths but do not speak, eyes but do not see. They have ears but do not hear, noses but do not smell, they have hands but do not feel, feet but do not walk, and they do not make a sound in their throat Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them. O Israel, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their Shield. O house of Aaron, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. You who fear the Lord, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. The Lord has remembered us. He will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel. He will bless the house of Aaron. He will bless those who fear the Lord, both the small and the great. May the Lord give you increase, you and your children. May you be blessed by the Lord who made heaven and earth. The heavens are the Lord's heavens, but the earth he has given to the children of man. The dead do not praise the Lord, nor do any who go down into silence, but we will bless the Lord. From this time forth and forever, praise the Lord. I'm going to read a prayer that I wrote based on Psalm 115. Let's pray this together. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us, but to your name, give glory. For the sake of your steadfast love, your chesed, and your faithfulness Lord, forgive us when we forget this, when we attempt to steal glory for ourselves. Have mercy. Why should the nation Where is their God? You are our God and you are in the heavens. You do all that you please Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths, they don't speak, they have eyes, they don't see, they have ears, they don't hear, they have noses, they don't smell, they have hands and don't feel, they They have feet and don't walk They don't make a sound in their throat. Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them. Lord, keep us from the idols of the world, the idols that our own hearts and minds would make. Guard our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Let us trust in you and you alone, O Lord, for you are our help and our shield. You, O Lord, have remembered us and will bless us. You will bless those who fear the Lord, both the small and the great. O Lord, grant your increase to us and to our children May we be blessed by you, O Lord, maker of heaven and earth. The heavens are your heavens, but the earth you have given to the children of man. We who live and draw breath will bless you, Lord. From this time forth and forevermore. Amen. We praise you, O Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again as we wrapped up week 23 of Walking with Jesus and the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again next week. As we continue in the Gospel of Luke, looking ahead to chapter 8, have a blessed day in the Lord. Have a blessed weekend in Lord's Day. Hope you can worship with God's people this Lord's Day.