Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. And we are getting to know our Savior better one day at a time. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church in Hartford County, Maryland. God's country we call Harford County, Maryland. Beautiful, one of the most beautiful places, I think. Just wonderful place to live and uh wonderful church to be able to pastor as well. I'm very thankful for our church. We are here in Matthew chapter 4, verses 17 to 25. As Jesus is beginning his earthly ministry, let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, please be our teacher. Please write your word on our hearts. Please give us insight into Christ and His kingdom that we might be more faithful followers of Him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Today we're looking at Matthew 4, 17 to 25. From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. While walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Immediately they left their nets and followed him And going on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them. Immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him. And he went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease, So his fame spread throughout all Syria and brought him they brought him all the sick Those afflicted with various diseases and pains, those oppressed by demons, those having seizures and paralytics, and he healed them. And great crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decapolis, and from Jerusalem and Judea, and from beyond the Jordan. So after Jesus had been tested and tried in the desert wilderness, he's now beginning his ministry in Galilee, the place where Isaiah said the light of God would shine. He calls his first disciples. He begins to proclaim the kingdom. He has said, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. demonstrating, initiating the kingdom. How? How does he bring the kingdom? Well there are three main ways that Jesus brings the kingdom of God in his earthly ministry. First is by teaching Jesus taught the scriptures in the synagogues and in the open places like the Sermon on the Mount He opened and he explained God's Word to his people. He was the Word of God incarnate. He knew the meaning of the Word of God, for he was the very fulfillment of the Word of God. And so the first and most common thing he did was teach God's word. The second thing he did was proclaim the gospel. He proclaimed the gospel of the kingdom. Now we don't know exactly what Jesus said every time he proclaimed the gospel of the kingdom, but this is the kingdom. God's rule, God's love, God's power, people's sin, their need for salvation, He called people to repent of their sin. and to stop trusting in their own righteousness and to turn to him to find it in faith in him instead. And the third thing he did, healing every disease, and affliction. So teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the gospel, this is all from verse 23, and healing every disease and every affliction. Whatever affliction, whether it was demonic or physical, Jesus healed it all. Sickness, paralysis, blindness, demonic oppression. Today We who are the Church of Jesus Christ are called to bring in the kingdom of God under the kingship of Jesus Christ and to demonstrate to the world the greatness of our King through these same means Teaching the Word of God, proclaiming the gospel, preaching the gospel, and healing, setting people free from their affliction. If they're lonely, we welcome them into a community in a spiritual family. If they're sick, we minister to their sickness. If they're hungry, we feed them. If they are troubled, we counsel them We teach God's word, we preach the gospel, we heal the sick, we minister to needs, clear instruction, authoritative proclamation, loving kingdom demonstration. These are the ways God continues to show himself to people and to advance his kingdom in our community and around the world. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 9 as we go back to the Psalms and pray the Psalms along with our walking through the Gospels. Psalm 9. It's written to the choirmaster. It is according to Muth Laban. We don't know what Muth Laban means, or it would have been translated, but it's probably the tune that this psalm was set to, and it's a psalm of David. I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart. I will recount all your wonderful deeds. I will be glad and exult in you. I will sing praise for your name, to your name, O Most High. When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before your presence. For you have maintained my just cause. You have sat on the throne giving righteous judgment. You have rebuked the nations. You have made the wicked perish. You have blotted out their name forever and ever. The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins. Their cities you rooted out. The very memory of them has perished. But the Lord sits in throne forever. He has established his throne for justice. And he judges the world with righteousness. He judges the peoples with uprightness. The Lord is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble. And those who know your name put their trust in you, for you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you. Sing praises to the Lord who sits enthroned in Zion. Tell among his peoples his deeds. For he who avenges blood is mindful of them. He does not forget the cry of the afflicted. Be gracious to me, O Lord. See my affliction from those who hate me, O you who lift me up from the gates of death, that I may recount all your praises. that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation. The nations have sunk in the pit they have made, in the net They hid, their own foot has been caught. The Lord has made himself known. He's executed judgment. The wicked are snared in the work of their own hands. The wicked shall return to Sheol, all the nations that forget God. For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish forever. Arise, O Lord Let not man prevail. Let the nations be judged before you. Put them in fear, O Lord. Let the nations know that they are but Men. Well, we read about Jesus bringing the kingdom, and here is a prayer of the kingdom. It's a kingdom-minded prayer. So let's pray. O Lord God, we give thanks to you, for your King has brought the kingdom. King Jesus reigns forever over all the nations. And he's brought the kingdom into this world, into our lives. He's brought the kingdom to us. He's brought us into the kingdom. You rule and reign over us, and we give you thanks for that. It's your grace. It's your sovereign grace as the king, where you've said, you have mercy on us. And you would bless us and you guard us from the enemy. The enemy of our soul, Satan. He attacks us. He deceives us. He wants to ensnare us, but you protect us. Keep us. Keep us trusting in you. Keep us following after you. Send forth the light of your gospel to all the nations. Use us to teach your word, to proclaim your gospel, to minister your mercy to those who are in need. Reign over us, reign in us, and through us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks once again for joining me. Hope you can join me again tomorrow as we close out this second week. Have a blessed day. In the Lord.