Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. As we're getting to know our Savior better and also praying the Psalms together, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Hope you are doing well on our third day of our second week. We're here in the Gospel of Matthew, and we move from the temptations in the wilderness to Jesus beginning his ministry. He's been anointed as Messiah. He's been tried and tested and come through, passing every test and every temptation, and now he's ready to begin his ministry. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word and for all that your word shows us of your son, who is the word of God incarnate. Please write this passage on our hearts. Please show us more of Jesus. Please help us. us to see his greatness, his goodness, and to love you better for this time we spend in your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, we are in Matthew chapter 4, verses 12 to 17. Now, when he heard, that is Jesus, heard, that John had been arrested, he withdrew into Galilee. And leaving Nazareth, he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea, in the territory of Zebulun and Nephtali, so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled the land of Zebulun, and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, the people. Dwelling in darkness have seen a great light. And for those dwelling in the region in shadow of death, on them a light has dawned. From that time, Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Now, the prophets of the Old Testament foretold the coming of Jesus, the Messiah, very specifically, but even in ways that on the surface of it might seem contradictory. Micah, the prophet Micah, Micah 5. 2, said that the Messiah to come would come from Bethlehem, Ephraim. a very specific small town in Judah, which had been the hometown of King David, about five miles to the west of Jerusalem Isaiah 9, which is quoted here in Matthew 4, said that Jesus would be in Galilee, in the territories of Zebulun and Naphtali, and also beyond the Jordan in the area known as Galilee of the Gentiles. But then Malachi 3. 1 said he would suddenly appear in the temple. The Lord whom you seek would suddenly appear in the temple in the temple. So so which is it? Bethlehem or Galilee or the temple in Jerusalem? Well, when we read the Gospels, we find out that Jesus fulfilled all three of these prophecies precisely. He came forth. from Bethlehem. That's where he was born. He was born at Bethlehem of Ephraim, and Micah five two says, O you Bethlehem, Ephra, though you are the least of the towns of Judah, from you shall come forth one whose coming forth is from of old, even from ancient time. So that's where he was born, in Bethlehem Ephra. But then the light of Jesus shone most brightly in the region of Galilee. If you were to look on a map and see the territories of Zebulun and Nephtali and the Sea of Galilee and the Way of the Sea beyond the Jordan, that's exactly where the earthly ministry of Jesus took place, most of his major miracles and most of his major teachings, turning water into wine, walking on water, feeding the 5,000 giving the Sermon on the Mount. All of these things took place in and around this area. It's where the light of Christ, the truth of his teaching, the power of God shone. But then Toward the end of his ministry, he makes his appearance authoritatively in the temple, turning over the tables of the money changers, driving out the animal sellers. The Lord whom you seek would suddenly appear in his temple. Of course, Jesus went to the temple several times throughout his life, beginning at the age of twelve. So God so specifically names multiple places. And Jesus specifically fulfills them all. That is the power of the Word of God. All right, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 8 as our time for prayer today. Psalm 8 is written to the choir master, according to the Gittith. It is a Psalm of David. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. You have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babies and infants, you have established strength, because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him? Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, and crowned him with glory and honor. You have given him dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the sea. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you indeed are majestic in all the earth. You made human beings uniquely in your image, and yet we have fallen into sin and bondage. And so you sent forth your son, Jesus, the Son of Man, to restore the sons of men, to restore us. to our rightful place. He reigns over all things. He has everything under his feet until he has defeated all of his enemies and brought his kingdom to the ends of the earth And we who are in Christ have that loving restoration. You've regarded us. You've had regard upon us enough to send your one and only Son to save us. We thank you. Help us to look to Jesus, to trust in Jesus, to follow Jesus, and by your Holy Spirit make us more and more like Jesus. Day by day we pray this in Jesus' name and for his glory in our lives. Amen. Amen Well, thanks so much for joining me again, for walking through the Gospels with Jesus. Pray that you join me again tomorrow and have a blessed day in the Lord.