Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. Getting to know our Savior better, that's our mission here as we meet together five days a week in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's week 15. We are in the Gospel of Mark. Second half of chapter 3, looking at verses 21 to 35, and today we're asking the question, how does the world oppose Jesus? This is continuing a theme we were in on Friday. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your kingdom and your King, your Son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Teach us more about Him that we might follow Him more closely. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying, he is out of his mind. And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, he is possessed by Beelzebal, and by the Prince of Demons he casts out demons. And he called them to him and said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand but is coming to an end. But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man. Then indeed he may plunder his house. Truly I say to you, all sins will be forgiven, the children of man, and whatever blasphemies they utter. But whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin. For they were saying, He has an unclean spirit. And his mother and his brothers came, and standing outside, they sent to him and called to him. And a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, Your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. And he answered them, Who are my mother and my brothers? And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, Here are my mother and my brothers, for whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother. Now, on Friday, we were focused on the fact that the various factions and forces in the world are united by something. opposition to Jesus. So what we read in Psalm 2, Psalm 2, verses 2 and 3, the kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. But how does the world oppose Jesus? Well, we see two good examples today in Jesus' earthly family and in the scribes Jesus' earthly family opposed him because they thought he was crazy. They wanted to take him home and talk some sense into him. Still today, the world opposes Jesus by calling Christians crazy. and accusing us of being extremist, out of touch with reality. The scribes attacked Jesus by accusing him of being evil, using the power of Satan to cast out demons. They call his good works the work of the devil, committing the sin of blasphemy of the Holy Spirit in the process. Even today, another common tactic for the world to use in opposition to Christ is to label Christians and the work of the church as evil. By calling Christians hateful bigots and comparing us to Nazis, the world opposes Jesus by calling his kingdom an evil kingdom. How should we respond to these accusations from the world? What do we do when the world calls us crazy or evil? Well, Jesus responded to these kinds of accusations by speaking the truth with wisdom and demonstrating the power of the kingdom in love Jesus didn't just call the scribes liars, but he wisely exposed the ridiculousness of their accusation. He also didn't just shut down their claim. He countered it with demonstrations of his power and love. That's our calling to speak the truth in wisdom. Countering the accusations of the world with wise words to disarm their accusations, then show the nature of Christ's kingdom in powerful acts of love. But here's the catch. Doing this will not make the world change their minds and start liking us. Remember, they killed Jesus, and he said that if the world hated him, it would hate us too But we're not seeking approval from the world. We serve our King, and He is always faithful to us. Amen. Well with that, let's turn our attention to Psalm 72. Psalm 72 is a great missions psalm, as it focuses our attention on the king, and it's a prayer. That the King, Jesus, would be glorified throughout all the world. Give the King your justice, O God. And your righteousness to the royal son. May he judge your people with righteousness and your poor with justice. Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people. and the hills in righteousness, may he defend the cause of the poor of the people, and give deliverance to the children of the needy, and crush the oppressor? May they fear you while the sun endures, and as long as the moon throughout all generations. May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass, like showers that water the earth. In his days May the righteous flourish and peace abound till the moon be no more. May he have dominion from sea to sea and from the river to the ends of the earth May desert tribes bow down before him, and his enemies lick the dust. May the kings of Tarshish and of the coastlands render him tribute. May the kings of Sheba and Siva bring gifts. May all kings fall down before him. All nations serve him. For he delivers the needy when he calls the poor, and him who has no helper. He has pity on the weak and the needy, and saves the lives of the needy. From oppression and violence, he redeems their life, and precious is their blood in his sight. Long may he live May gold of Sheba be given to him. May prayer be made for him continually, and blessings invoked for him all the day. May there be abundance of grain in the land On the tops of the mountains, may it wave, may its fruit be like Lebanon, and may people blossom in the cities like the grass of the field. May his name endure forever, his fame continue as long as the sun. May people Be blessed in him. All nations call him blessed. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, who alone does wondrous things. Blessed be his glorious name for ever. May the whole earth be filled with his Glory. What a great prayer. May the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen. The prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are ended. Let's pray. O gracious Heavenly Father. O Lord Jesus, holy and wise and powerful King, O Holy Spirit, the one who draws us to Christ, brings us into his kingdom, and grows us. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, O God, be glorified. Be glorified in the lives of your people. Give us the wisdom to answer the enemies of your people with wise words. Give us hearts of love that we might demonstrate the power of the kingdom through deeds of love, as well as the proclamation of the gospel. May Jesus be glorified from sea to sea. From the river to the ends of the earth. May all nations call him blessed. May your name be glorified in all the earth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Thanks so much for joining me again as we're walking through with walking with Jesus through the Gospels or walking through the Gospels with Jesus, one of those things. Anyway, I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope again you can join me tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.