Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are learning to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is our second day of our 14th week. It's our second day in the Gospel of Mark. So we're in Mark 1, 21 to 45 today, and we're asking the question, how did Jesus demonstrate his authority? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your Son Jesus, who has all authority in heaven and earth as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. As we look today at the second half of Mark 1, we pray that your Holy Spirit would lead us and teach us that we might come to know Jesus better and appreciate more deeply the authority he has, how he exercises it, and how we can trust in him. Jesus' name. Amen. Mark 1 21. And they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes. And immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit And he cried out, What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent. Come out of him And the unclean spirit, convulsing him, and crying out with a loud voice, came out of him, and they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? A new teaching with authority He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee. And immediately he left the synagogue and entered the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. Now Simon's mother in law lay ill with a fever, and immediately they told him about her, and he came and took her by the hand, and lifted her up. And the fever left her, and she began to serve them. That evening at sundown they brought to him all who were sick or oppressed by demons, and the whole city was gathered together at the door, and he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons, and he would not permit the demons to speak because they knew him And rising very early in the morning while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place, and there he prayed And Simon and those who were with him searched for him, and they found him and said to him, Everyone is looking for you. And he said to them, Let us go on to the next town. that I may preach there also, for that is why I came out. And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons. And a leper came to him, imploring him, and kneeling, said to him, If you will, you can make me clean. Moved with pity he stretched out his hand and touched him and said, I will be clean And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was made clean. And Jesus sternly charged him and sent him away at once and said to him, See that you say nothing to any one but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded for a proof to them. But he went out and began to talk freely about it and spread the news so that Jesus could no longer openly enter a town, but was out in desolate places, and people were coming to him from every quarter. So how did Jesus demonstrate his authority? We know that Jesus is the Messiah, the Holy One of God, but how do we know? Well when Jesus came, he did not just tell people who he was and then say, trust me, I'm telling the truth, really. Many religious leaders have done that. Muhammad and Joseph Smith, the founders of Islam and Mormonism, both made clown claims to be prophets of God who received revelation directly from God, and yet they did nothing. to publicly substantiate their claims, to demonstrate their authority. So what did Jesus do? He revealed his authority and the nature of his kingdom by his teaching and his miracles. When he taught, he spoke with the authority of the author of Scripture and the ruler of the kingdom of God. He spoke clearly, boldly, with authority, power, and wisdom. He did not need to rely on the handed down traditions of the rabbis, and he was not trained in the rabbinical schools. When the people heard him teach, they were astonished. They heard his authority. And Jesus' words are remembered and are still astonishing people to this day. Then, when Jesus was finished teaching, he would demonstrate that his authority was not just a matter of words or compelling speech. He showed the people that he was their long-awaited king publicly and repeatedly His miracles showed there was no limit to his authority. Demons, illnesses, chronic medical conditions, forces of nature, disabilities, and even death itself all submitted to his rule. We can gain two things from Jesus' clear and public demonstrations of his authority. Confidence and comfort We can gain confidence as we understand better that Jesus really is unique in the history of the world. No other religious leader has done the kinds of things Jesus did in such a public manner. Thus we can know that his authority is unique and ultimate. But we also gain comfort because Jesus still rules with the full authority he demonstrated when he was here on earth. That means that nothing can stand against him or overrule his sovereign care for us, his subjects. In fact, he uses all things for his purposes He is not lacking in power, wisdom, or love in any of his actions toward us. We can rest in the loving arms of our High King and his royal authority. Amen. Now let's turn our attention to Psalm 68. To the choir master, a psalm of David, a psalm, God Shall Arrive His enemies shall be scattered, and those who hate him shall flee before him. As smoke is driven away, so you shall drive them away. As wax melts before fire, so the wicked shall perish before God. But the righteous shall be glad. They shall exalt before God. They shall be jubilant with joy. Sing to God, sing praises to his name. Lift up a song to him who rides through the desert. His name is the Lord. Exalt before him. father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation. God settles the solitary in a home. He leads out the prisoners to prosperity, but the rebellious Dwell in a parched land. O God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the wilderness, the earthquaked. The heavens poured down rain before God, the one of Sinai, before God, the God of Israel. Rain in abundance, O God, you shed abroad and restored your inheritance as it languished. Your flock found a dwelling in it. In your goodness, O God, you provided for the needy. The Lord gives the word The women who announce the news are a great host, the kings of the armies, they flee, they flee. The women at home divide the spoil. Though you men lie among the sheetfolds, the wings of a dove covered with silver, its pinions with shimmering gold, when the Almighty scatters kings there Let snow fall on Zalman. O mountain of God, Mountain of Bashin, O many-peaked mountain, mountain of Bashin, why do you look with hatred, O many-peaked mountain, at the mount that God has desired for his abode Yes, where he, where the Lord, will dwell forever. The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, thousands upon thousands. The Lord is among them. Sinai is now in the sanctuary. You ascended on high, leading a host of captives in your train, and receiving gifts among men, even among the rebellious, that the Lord God may dwell there. Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears us up. God is our salvation. Our God is a God of salvation, and to God the Lord belong deliverances from death. But God will strike the head of his enemies the hairy crown of him who walks in his guilty ways. The Lord said, I will bring them back from Bashan. I will bring them back from the depths of the sea. that you may strike your feet in their blood, and that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from the foe. Your procession is seen, O God. the procession of my God, my king, into the sanctuary, the singers in front, the musicians last, between them, virgins playing tambourines. Bless God in the great congregation, the Lord, O you who are of Israel's fountain. There is Benjamin, the least of them, in the lead. the princes of Zeb of Judah in their throng, the princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali. Summon your power, O God, the power, O God, by which you have worked for us. Because of your temple at Jerusalem, kings shall bear gifts to you. Rebuke the beasts that dwell among the reeds. the herds of bulls with the calves of the people. Trample underfoot those who lust after tribute. Scatter the peoples who delight in war. Nobles shall come from Egypt. Cush shall hasten to stretch out her hands to God. O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God, sing praises to the Lord, to him who rides in the heavens, the ancient heavens. Behold, he sends out his voice, his mighty voice, ascribe power to God, whose majesty is over Israel, and whose power is in the skies. Awesome is God from his sanctuary The God of Israel, he is the one who gives power and strength to his people. Blessed be God. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, O Divine Son of God, King of Kings, O Holy Spirit. You, Almighty God, three and one, are powerful, mighty to save, strong for your people with all authority over the enemy, with all authority to deliver your people. Jesus, you showed this authority when you were here on earth. When you cast out demons and delivered your people from bondage and brought sight to the blind and brought life to the dead, in that same way, O Lord, you are working in your church right now. through the preaching of your word, through the worship of your name, through the fellowship of your people, to bring life to the dead, to bring light to the darkness, to bring people to you and to set us free from the bondage of sin and death and hell forever. Rule over us, reign over us, push back the enemy The enemy that attacks your people, the enemy that frustrates your kingdom, push them back, defeat them. Lead us, O Lord, to glorify you. With the power and the authority that you alone possess. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again, for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.