Good morning. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. We are in the middle of Matthew chapter ten today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Please write it on our hearts and help us to see Jesus more clearly, that we might follow Him and represent Him to a world of need. We pray this in His name and for His glory. Amen Amen. Matthew 10, 16 to 33, asking, how can we prepare for persecution? Because Jesus tells us persecution will come. Matthew 10, 16 to 33, Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. So be as wise as serpents and innocent as doves. Beware of men, for they will deliver you over to courts, and flog you in their synagogues, and you will be dragged before governors and kings for my sake to bear witness before them and the Gentiles When they deliver you over, do not be anxious how you are to speak or what you are to say, for what you are to say will be given you in that hour For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you. Brother will deliver brother over to death And the father, his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death, and you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved When they persecute you in one town, flee to the next. For truly I say to you, you will not have gone through all the towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher, and the servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more will they malign those of his household? So have no fear of them. For nothing is covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be made known. What I tell you in the dark, say in the light And what you hear whispered, proclaim it on the house tops, and do not fear those who can kill the body but cannot kill the soul, rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father, but even the hairs on your head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore. you are of more value than many sparrows. So every one who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men Men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven. Jesus made it clear multiple times in the Gospels, very clearly here, that his followers should expect to face persecution of some kind. Sometimes this persecution comes in the form of being insulted, disrespected, ostracized, or ridiculed. Often, for many of God's people, the persecution is even more costly. Most Christians have had the experience of feeling ashamed or embarrassed to openly share our faith for fear of being rejected So how can we be better prepared to face whatever persecution, mild or severe, might be coming our way? Jesus gives us several guidelines in today's passage. First, in verses 16 and 17, he tells us to be wise and to beware. Some people act as if Christians should welcome and even seek out persecution, but Jesus does not advise us in this way. He wants us to be wise as serpents. and innocent as doves, and then he warns us to beware of men. We don't need to foolishly endanger our lives or our families for no good reason. We can be wise. And we should beware. Second, in verses 19 and 20, he tells us to rely on God for your words. Being wise doesn't mean being silent. We should trust God. For the wisdom to say what we should say in the moment, trusting the Holy Spirit and not trusting our own wisdom. Third, in verses 26 and 28, he says, Do not fear people. Just as wisdom is not silence, so also wisdom is not fear. Jesus warns us that we should only fear the Lord. Once we have the fear of the Lord, we do not need to fear people who cannot eternally harm us anyway. The fourth thing, verse 27, Jesus says, What I tell you in the dark, say in the light, and what you hear whispered, proclaim on the housetops. That means we are to clearly, boldly, and openly proclaim Jesus' teachings. We need not be ashamed. We have no reason to hide. And fifth, trust God's loving care. Verses 30 and 31. But even the hairs of your head are numbered. Fear not, therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows. God is our Heavenly Father, who loves us more deeply and profoundly than we can ever know. To summarize, fear God, not fear people. Trust the Holy Spirit, not yourself. Be courageous, but not foolish. And remember this from Jesus. So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven, but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven. Well the Lord sends us out as sheep in the midst of wolves. How can we go out in those conditions? Only if the Lord is our shepherd. Psalm twenty-three A Psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. What a great psalm to accompany our gospel reading for today. Let's pray. O Lord Jesus, you are our great shepherd, our good shepherd, faithful, strong, wise, holy. You keep us in the way that we most need to be kept eternally secure in your loving hands. It doesn't mean we won't be persecuted. In fact, you told us we will be persecuted. It doesn't even mean we might not be put to death for the sake of you and your gospel. But that will not harm us eternally. It will just usher us into your presence You are our shepherd, your rod and your staff comfort us. You prepare a table before us in the presence of our enemies. When we go through the valley of the She shadow of death, perhaps from intense persecution because of our public witness for Christ. We do not need to fear evil. We need to trust you. Help us to walk by faith and not in fear. Help us to walk with courage, of conviction, and in the power of your Holy Spirit. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. Lord willing, we'll be back tomorrow, and you can join us then as we continue on in Matthew 10. Have a blessed day in the Lord.