Good morning, good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. Together, we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you could join me for our last day of week 14 As we are in the first part of Mark chapter 3 today, we're going to be looking at verses 1 to 21 and asking, how does God's kingdom clash with the kingdoms of this world? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you have called us to be a part of your kingdom through Jesus Christ, your King. Teach us. From Mark 3. Grow us to love and follow Jesus more. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Mark 3, 1 to 21. Again he entered the synagogue. And a man was there with a withered hand, and they watched Jesus to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man with the withered hand, Come here. And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill? But they were silent. And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man, Stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his hand was restored. The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against him, how to destroy him. Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great crowd followed from Galilee and Judea, from Jerusalem and Edumea, and from beyond the Jordan, and around Tyre and Sidon. When the great crowd heard all that he was doing, they came to him. And he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, lest they crush him. For he had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed around to touch him. And whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, You are the Son of God! and he strictly ordered them not to make him known. And he went up on the mountain, and called to him those whom he desired, and they came to him And he appointed twelve, whom he also named apostles, so that they might be with him, and might he might send them out to preach and have authority to cast out demons. He appointed the twelve, Simon, to whom he gave the name Peter James, the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, to whom he gave the names Boanergies, that is, sons of thunder. Andrew and Philip and Bartholomew and Matthew and Thomas and James the son of Alphaeus and Thaddeus and Simon the Zealot and Judas Iscariot who betrayed him. Then he went home. And the crowd gathered again, so that they could not even eat. And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying, He is out of his mind So what do Pharisees, Herodians, and demons all have in common? I know this isn't a setup line for a really bad joke. Rather, today's passage reveals how all the powers of this fallen world, some of which are usually in opposition to each other, are united in opposition to Jesus, his gospel, and his kingdom Pharisees and Herodians were not natural friends. Pharisees were Jewish nationalists and religious purists who sought to see Roman rule over Judea overthrown. They thought that by keeping the law, especially the Sabbath, the Jewish people could earn a deliverance from God out of the hands of their enemies. The Herodians supported Herod and his family in their rule over God's people. Thus they supported the reign of Edomite puppets of Rome. the oppressors of God's people. Normally these two groups would have nothing in common, but they held counsel together against Jesus to destroy him. Then right after the Pharisees and Herodians conspire together against Jesus, we see Jesus taking the offensive against Satan He casts out demons and then gives his disciples authority to preach the gospel and cast out demons. Thus we see that Jesus' reign not only threatens religious and political power brokers but the spiritual oppressors of God's people too. Jesus' kingdom comes into the world through the proclamation of the gospel and the demonstration of his salvation power. As his kingdom comes, it is a direct challenge to all who would hold on to power for themselves and for their own glory, especially if the exercise of that power involves the oppression of God's people. This is spiritual warfare, kingdom conflict, fueled by gospel light breaking into the darkness, and the salvation of God breaking the chains of bondage from God's people. The call for the church is to preach the gospel and demonstrate the salvation of God in transformed lives lived in community and outreach to the world We are to preach the gospel and to seek to set the prisoners free from Satan's deception and oppression. As we do so, we should fully expect opposition. We should anticipate hatred from the world, not because we hate them, but because our king threatens their power. In the midst of this kingdom conflict, we should maintain our confidence and joy, knowing that the decisive victory has already been won. We should also remember that we are not called to fight using the world's weapons or methods. Our weapons are the Word of God and prayer and love. We will never truly win if we betray our king and his kingdom priorities. But following him, we already have the victory. That is the good news. Our King The King of love, the King of self-sacrificing salvation, has already won. Amen. Let's go to Psalm 71 now. In you, O Lord, do I take refuge. Let me never be put to shame. In your righteousness, deliver me and rescue me. Incline your ear to me and save me. Be to me a rock of refuge. to which I may continually come. You have given the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of the unjust and cruel man. For you, O Lord, are my hope, my trust, O Lord, from my youth. Upon you I have leaned from before my birth. You are he who took me from my mother's womb. My praise is continually of you. I have been a portent to many. But you are my strong refuge. My mouth is filled with your praise and with your glory all the day. Do not cast me off in the time of old age Forsake me not when my strength is spent, for my enemies speak concerning me. Those who watch for my life consult together and say, God has forsaken him. Pursue and seize him, for there is none to deliver him. O God, be not far from me. O my God, make haste to help me. May my accusers be put to shame and consumed. With scorn and disgrace may they be covered who seek my hurt. But I will hope continually. and will praise you yet more and more. My mouth will tell of your righteous acts, of your deeds of salvation all the day, for their number is is past my knowledge. With the mighty deeds of the Lord I will come. I will remind them of your righteousness, yours alone. O God, from my youth, you have taught me. And I still proclaim your wondrous deeds. So even to old age and gray hairs, oh God, do not forsake me. until I proclaim your might to another generation, your power to all those to come. Your righteousness, O God, reaches the high heavens. You who have done great things, O God, who is like you You who have made me see many troubles and calamities will revive me again from the depths of the earth. You will bring me up again. You will increase my greatness and comfort me again I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, O my God. I will sing praises to you with the lyre. O Holy One of Israel, my lips will shout for joy when I sing praises to you, my soul also, which you have redeemed. And my tongue will talk of your righteous help all the day long, for you, for they have been put to shame and disappointed who sought to do me hurt. That's a great psalm of kingdom conflict. Is the world seeking to put us to shame? Are they seeking to do us hurt? Yes, but they will be put to shame. They will be disappointed because of God's righteous help Because of God's salvation. And all we need to do is shout for joy and sing praises to Him. All we need to do is proclaim His righteousness and the deeds that He has done. Pray. Heavenly Father, ours is a warfare of proclamation and praise, of prayer, and of a demonstration of the kingdom in transformed lives. You call us to that. We're not to fight as the world fights. We're not to get nasty with people. We're not to spread lies. We're not to attack people viciously. We are to praise you, to proclaim what you have done through Jesus Christ. to pray to you and to demonstrate how our lives have been redeemed and changed. And you will be faithful to answer. You will be faithful to save Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for week 14. I hope that these times in God's Word and the Gospels have been a blessing to you as we head into the weekend. Hope you're looking forward to the Lord's Day. Can't wait to gather together and worship at uh Forest Hill as we're going to be hearing from the end of Isaiah 63 and then Isaiah 64 this great prayer uh pleading for the mercy of our Father. Uh that's coming up on Sunday. Until then, have a blessed day in the Lord.