Romans chapter ten, verses five to twenty-one. This is the Word of God. For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. But the righteousness based on faith says, do not say in your heart, who will ascend into heaven, that is to bring Christ down. Or who will ascend into the abyss, that is to bring Christ up from the dead. But what does it say? The word is near you. In your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith that we proclaim. Because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the Scripture says, everyone who believes in Him will not be put to shame, for there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on Him, for everyone Who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed And how are they to believe in Him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching And how are they to preach unless they are sent, as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the Word of Christ. But I ask, have they not heard? Indeed they have, for their voice has gone out to all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. But I ask, did Israel not understand? First, Moses says, I will make you jealous of those who are not a nation. With a foolish nation I will make you angry. Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those who did not seek me. I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me But of Israel, he says, all day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God You shower your grace upon us every day of our lives. Every day that we wake up in your world and experience your sunshine. And the benefits of the rain that you send on the earth to water the earth, these are all gifts of grace. Every breath that we take, every beat of our heart, every moment of joy. or gifts of grace, but there's no greater grace than the salvation that you give in Jesus Christ for everyone who believes, for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord. Pray that you would teach us the truth of your gospel through your word today, and that you would write it on our hearts that we might know and understand and believe. And thank you for it and spread your gospel to the nations. For the glory of your name, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be saved. One of the things I learned at the Pastors Fellowship I attended this week is that you should never begin a sermon by apologizing. But I'm going to begin my sermon by apologizing. Because I'm going to use a very overused sermon illustration. I guarantee you've probably heard this before. You can probably finish the story for me. But there's a point to it. Even though it's very familiar, it's very effective for a reason. So there was a man who was caught in a terrible sudden flood. He lived beside a river. And the river was suddenly in in flash flood stage and it starts threatening his house. And as it does so, he's he's praying to God to rescue him. Lord, please rescue me from these floods. Well the waters rose and he had to flee up to the second floor because his first floor was flooded, and just as he did so, a neighbor comes by in a boat At the window and says, Hey neighbor, get in. I'll bring us both to safety. And he says, No, thank you. I'm waiting for God to rescue me. The waters rose more, and the man scrambled onto his roof, still praying for God to rescue him. So a rescue helicopter is sent out, it flies by, it lowers a ladder, and it says, Climb on up. And he says, No, thank you. I'm willing for God to rescue me. Well, he remains on his roof, the waters go up all the way, the man drowns. He dies, he goes to heaven, he's standing before the Lord And he says, Lord, I thought you loved me. I prayed so earnestly that you would rescue me. Why didn't you rescue me? And God says, well, I sent a rowboat and I sent a helicopter. What more do you want me to do? And this is a classic story, and you've heard it before, because it really gets to the heart of a vital issue. And this is the truth that a sovereign God uses appointed means to accomplish his will In Romans 8 and 9, especially, we've been learning about just how sovereign God is in salvation. He predestines, he calls, he justifies, he glorifies. Salvation is of the Lord And here in today's passage, what we get is the human side. To say that God is sovereign in salvation does not mean that there is no human responsibility Or that there is no human agency, or that we just need to sit back and let go and let God. If God's going to save people, He'll save people. I think of uh William Carey, who is the father of the modern missions movement. had to form a a missionary society to raise funds to send him on his mission to India in 1792 And the reason why he had to form a mission society to raise funds to send them to the mission field is that he went to the church, he went to the Presbyterian Church, the Church of Scotland, and he said, I believe the Lord's called me to go and reach the lost in India. And one of the elders in the Presbyterian church stood up and said, Young man, if the Lord is going to be pleased to save the lost in India, he will do so with or without your help. That's called hyper-Calvinism, by the way. And it pretends as if the truth of a sovereign God means that there's no point in us sending or going or sharing or doing anything because God's just going to save who he wants to save. But any doctrine taught by men that directly contradicts Scripture has to go. And that directly contradicts the passage that we have in front of us today. So, this passage is really about the human means that God uses to bring people to Jesus, to save people. First, in verses 5 to 13, we get a clear understanding of what saving faith is. How do we get the righteousness of God that is found in Jesus Christ? What we've learned in Romans so far is that You need the righteousness of God if you're going to be accepted by God, if you're going to have a relationship with God, if you're going to spend eternity with God, if you're going to be reconciled to God, you have to have the righteousness of God. God can't Compromise his character and let sinful unrighteous people into heaven, then heaven would just become Earth two point zero. And we've been down that road and seen that mess And God says, no, you have to have my righteousness if you're going to enjoy my paradise. How do we get the righteousness of God? Well, verses 5 to 13 teach us that people get the righteousness of God by faith in Jesus Christ. And that is shown in a confession of faith and the inward possession of that same faith. So people get the righteousness of God. By faith in Jesus Christ, which is shown in a confession of faith and the inward possession of that same faith. We see this, like I said, in verses 5 to 13. For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law That the person who does the commandments shall live by them. So if you want a righteousness by law, you have to do all the commandments. You can't leave any of them out. You have to score 100% on the life exam to get righteousness by law. That's not possible. And so we have but The righteousness based on faith says, and this is coming from Deuteronomy 30, do not say in your heart Who will ascend into heaven, that is to bring Christ down, or who will descend into the abyss, that is to bring Christ up from the dead. But what does it say? The word is near you in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith that we proclaim. So how do you get the righteousness of God that's in Jesus Christ? You don't have to go up to heaven and drag Jesus down to earth. You don't have to go down into the grave and pull Jesus up from the grave. Why not? Why don't you have to do those things? Because Jesus already came from heaven to earth, and Jesus already rose up from the dead. The work has already been done And now it's the word of God that's preached that comes close to you, and the word coming near to your heart is right there for you to believe. The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart, because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the Scripture says every one who believes in him will not be put to shame. That's a heart issue. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord, that's your mouth, will be saved. So heart and mouth. Heart and mouth. What's interesting about Paul quoting from Deuteronomy 30 is that if you were to go home this afternoon and look up Deuteronomy 30 You might say, oh, Moses is talking about the law. He's saying the word is near you, in your heart and in your mouth. He's talking about the law of God. And yes, he is. And this is one of the passages that lets us know that Jesus is the law of God fulfilled. There's only one righteousness of God. There's only one righteousness of God. We get a picture of it in the law of God, but we get the embodiment, the incarnation of it in Jesus Christ. So yes, the law of God, which is a picture, it's like it's like a sketch, like a a great masterpiece of art. But then Jesus is the embodiment, the enfleshment, the coming to life. of that righteousness of God. And so when Jesus fulfills the law of God in human flesh and we hear the message of the gospel and we receive Him, we're receiving the fulfillment of the law. We're receiving the righteousness of God described by the law and embodied in Jesus Christ. And the way we do that is we have to believe and we have to confess. Because the word of God about Jesus Christ, the righteousness of God, must be in our mouths and in our hearts. In other words, we have to have a credible profession of faith that is accompanied by a true possession of that same faith. You need both of those things. The credible profession of faith is actually very simple. It's three words. Jesus is Lord. And actually in the original uh Greek it's only two words. Jesus Kurios. Jesus Lord. Okay. What does that mean? Does that mean anybody who just says, Jesus is the Lord, hey, you're going to heaven. Is that it? Just say the words? No. To confess, in Greek is homologos, which means the same word or the same meaning or the same truth. So when you confess, you are saying the same thing that what God means by when he says it You can't just say it and not understand and not agree with what is being said. And to confess that Jesus is Lord, it means three things. Three things. First of all, what we need to know is that the word for Lord, kurios, is the way that the Greek Bible, the Greek Old Testament called the Septuagint. The Greek Old Testament, that's the Bible that the early church had. When the early church had the Bible, it didn't have an English standard version because there was no such thing as an English language. Contrary to what you may have heard, they didn't have the King James Bible, because there wouldn't be a King James for 1600 years. They had a Greek Bible. And When Romans was written, if you would ask Christians about the Bible or the Word of God, for the most part, they're going to be thinking about what we call the Old Testament. So they have a Greek Old Testament. And in that Greek Old Testament, kurios is the Greek word that is used consistently to translate the name of the Lord, Yahweh, we would say. When you see in your Bibles all caps, L-O-R-D. That's the name of the Lord. And actually the reason why English Bibles use the Lord in all caps is because that's what the New Testament does. It takes all those Old Testament references to Yahweh to the name of the Lord and it translates them using Kurios. And so when you hear Jesus is Lord in the New Testament, it means, first and foremost, that Jesus is Yahweh in human flesh. He is the God of the covenant of the Old Testament who came into the world in human flesh. In many places we see this, but we don't get it because we don't see what the early church would have seen. A famous example, Philippians chapter 2. the great Christ hymn of the early church. Therefore God exalted him and gave him the name that is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow and every tongue confess. Right? That Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Therefore God exalted him and gave him the name that is above every name. What name is above every name? You might say, well Jesus. Uh-huh. No, no, no. Why not? He was born with the name Jesus. He was given the name Jesus. While he was in his mother's womb. Therefore, God exalted him after the resurrection when he was ascended to the right hand of God. Therefore, God exalted him and gave him the name that is above every name. What is the name that is above every name? Well, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven or on earth or under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. That, by the way, is a direct quotation from Isaiah, where the Lord Yahweh says, To me every knee shall bow, and to me every tongue shall confess. Yahweh says that. And so the early church knowing their Bible, they say, Oh, I see. Jesus is Yahweh. That is the confession of faith of the early church By the way, if you ever do get into a conversation with Jehovah's Witnesses, it's that's a good thing to study up on. You look at that Philippians 2 passage, you go and find the parallel passage in Isaiah, and it's so clear that that's what Philippians 2 is drawing on, and it's not It's uh it it's trying to help them see that Jesus is Jehovah, to use their favorite way of saying the name of God, which no one knows how to say. Yahweh's not right probably. Jehovah's not probably right. We don't know how to say it That's why I actually prefer the Lord, because that's what we call him. We call him the Lord. And that's what the New Testament does. That's what the apostles do. So anyway. So that's the first thing it means. You have to believe that Jesus is God. He's God Almighty. He's the Lord. He's the God of the Old Testament. He is God in human flesh. Secondly, though, kurias means master or ruler. So when you say Jesus is Lord, it means that Jesus is your Lord, that he's your master. He's the one you follow and obey. Of course, nobody does so perfectly. We're all sinners, we're all inconsistent, we're all constantly prone to wander. But If you sincerely and unhypocritically confess that Jesus is Lord, you are saying that Jesus is the master of my life I follow Jesus. That's why the call of Jesus when he was in the world was, come and follow me. We're not getting Jesus to sort of sign off and endorse what we want for our lives. We go to him and say, what do you want for my life? I am yours. The third thing, to understand it in a Roman cultural context, when the early church said Jesus is Lord, was actually a very powerful counter-cultural statement. That conflicted with what Rome required its citizens to say. Rome would allow you to keep your gods, worship whatever gods you want. One of the benefits of polytheism, you're like, well we have these twelve gods that we like. Well we have these six gods that we like. Okay, we have these eight gods that we like, okay. Let's just have them all. Bring them all in, hundreds and hundreds of gods, it's all that's just perfectly fine But everyone was required in the Roman Empire to make a confession that Caesar is Lord. You can have whatever gods you want, but Caesar is Lord, Kaisar Kurios. And the early church comes along and says, Jesus Curios, Jesus is Lord. He's my master. He's the one I obey. What does that mean for us? It means that our deepest allegiance, our highest loyalty, must be to King Jesus and his kingdom. When we pray the Lord's Prayer, we're praying, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. So we can be good citizens of America, sure. But we know our real citizenship is in heaven. Our American citizenship is temporary. Our heavenly citizenship is eternal. And so those are the three things it means to say, to confess, not just say, but to confess Jesus is Lord. Jesus is God in the flesh. He's the master and ruler of my life. My highest loyalty is to him and his kingdom. Now, how can you say that? You can only say that if you believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. And Paul brings it back to that issue of resurrection, because the resurrection proves everything. That's why every year, you'll notice if you've been here for a while, every year on Resurrection Day on Easter Sunday morning. I'm always giving a sermon to prove the truth of the resurrection. Because if you get the resurrection, you get the key that unlocks it all. How did Jesus conquer death? Because he's God. And it's impossible for God to die. How did Jesus overcome all the enemies and atone for all of the sins of all of God's people? How is it that Jesus can be The life, the resurrection and the life, because he is the righteousness of God incarnate. He is Lord of all. He is the fulfillment of all the promises of God from the Old Testament. He is the key that unlocks the kingdom of God because he is the king. You can't believe in a dead Savior. It just wouldn't make any sense to say, yes, Jesus is God in human flesh. He is my master and my ruler, and my highest loyalty is to him, but I think he's dead and buried. I don't think he rose again from the dead. That doesn't make any sense. We have a living Savior, we have a living Lord. And so we have to believe that God has raised him from the dead. He sits at God's right hand right now, interceding for us in prayer. He's coming again to judge the living and the dead. This gets further unpacked uh over the centuries in what we come to know as the Apostles' Creed. The idea that you confess Jesus is Lord, you believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, there's This and the Philippians Christ hymn and the one in First Timothy all get sort of unpacked and developed and become the apostles' creed. It's what you need to believe, that Jesus is Lord. And your mouth has to match your heart. Your heart has to overflow to your mouth. And this is open for everyone who believes. Notice the universal language that Paul uses when he quotes from the Old Testament two different places. He says, everyone who believed in him Will not be put to shame. Everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. If you believe, if you confess, you will be saved. Now, you might be thinking Well, I don't know if I can call on him for salvation. I don't know if I can believe in him. I have my doubts. My faith is shaky. Maybe I'm not predestined, and so I can't call on him and I can't believe in him. And I would just like to say that that is backwards thinking biblically. And that is how, you know, when when Satan came after Jesus in the desert wilderness after Jesus had been fasting for 40 days. You know, he quoted the Bible to Jesus. He does that sometimes. And he'll do that to you. He'll say, well, only only those who are predestined can be saved. Maybe you're not predestined. That's not your concern. What your concern is Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, call upon the name of the Lord, and there's a promise, you will be saved. It's not said, you will be saved if you're predestined. Because the truth is that if you have a desire to call upon the name of the Lord, if you do call upon the name of the Lord, guess what? That's the evidence that you are predestined. Those who are not, don't care. That's why R. C. Sproul would say, uh, if you doubt your salvation If you wrestle with, does God really love me? Am I really forgiven? Am I really justified? Does God really accept me? That is almost certain evidence that you are saved. Because unbelievers are dead in their sins and trespasses, and people who are dead in their sins and trespasses are not worried about what God thinks about them. are not concerned about the eternal state of their souls, do not want forgiveness from God, have not called upon the name of God. There will be zero people Who end up in hell, who say, Well, I called upon the name of the Lord and I wanted to believe, and I knew that God raised him from the dead, but I just I just wasn't elect. It's not gonna happen. That's not how it works. Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. But then, of course, how are they gonna call on the name of the Lord? How are they going to call on him if they've never heard of him? How are they going to hear about him if nobody tells him? How's anybody going to tell them? If nobody's ever sent. And that brings us to the second section, verses 13 to 17. How do people get the gospel? People only get the gospel when someone heralds the good news to them. sent by the church and bringing the word of Christ to people. People only get the gospel when someone heralds the good news to them, sent by the church and bringing the word of Christ to people. People need to hear because they need to call upon him. And they can't call upon someone that they don't know. And so the Word of God has to go out. Now, one of the things with our translation, if you'll notice I use the word herald, and our translation uses the word preach, which is fine. It's a fine translation. But we hear the word preach, and we think, oh, there has to be a preacher, someone whose job it is to preach, someone like me. Be like, okay, so there's however many of us here in this room, if anybody's going to hear the gospel, it has to come from me because I have to be able to preach it to them. But that's not really what is meant here. The word here is a word that's used of a royal herald, of a herald who announces the good news that comes from the king. And so that could be anybody. If you know the good news that came from the king, and you share that good news that comes from the king with somebody else, that makes you a herald. Makes you someone who publishes good news. And the feet of those who herald the good news are beautiful. What does that mean? You ever wonder what that means? Why is it that the feet of those who herald good news are beautiful? Well, again, it's coming from the ancient world and in the day before technology. When there was a battle that was fought and the outcome of the battle was unknown, the results of the battle would have to be carried back from the battlefield to the capital city of whichever. City, you know, was involved in the fight. And you could tell from a great distance whether the person returning from the battle was carrying good news or over is carrying bad news, whether the battle was won or whether the battle was lost. How do you think that is? If we're coming back from victory If you're coming back from a triumphant win over your enemy, how are you coming back? You are running and you're excited and you're kicking up dust because you are just sprinting as best you can. That's how the marathon got invented, by the way. It was 26 miles from the plain of Marathon to the city of Athens. And the guy who was so excited to go back and bring good news of the victory of Marathon, he ran all the 26 miles from Marathon to Athens and then he dropped dead. And then people said, let's make a sport out of that. True story. Anyway, but the feat but if you're coming back with bad news, because you lost, you come back like this. And that's got a message for us as believers when we have an opportunity to share the good news of Jesus Christ with somebody. Do we do so happy to share because it's good news? God's God will forgive you of all of your sins. God has taken care of all of your problems. Jesus has come. He's won the victory. He's won salvation for all who believe in him. Just believe in him and you will be saved. As we come and say Well, you know, uh you should really believe like I believe, and then you'll have all the joy that I have. Uh you know, sometimes we feel like we need to just like be ashamed or apologize or sort of mumble it a little bit. It it's a joyful thing to be able to tell somebody the good news. I'm not saying, you know, you every single person you meet, you know. Hey, good morning, how are you? Do you know Jesus loves you and died for your sins and you can have salvation if you just place your faith in him? It's great. You could do that There are worse things you can see with your life, but after a while you may get tired and people may get tired of you. But we still should have, when we do have an opportunity to herald the good news to somebody, we should do so joyfully. Because it is good news of victory. That's ultimately what it is. Jesus has won the victory over sin and death and hell forever. And everyone who believes in him, who joins his team, who who pledges allegiance to him, who says Jesus is the Lord, who confesses him as the God, who beat death You get eternal life. Even if you're a messed up person who sins and needs a lot of forgiveness, well, Jesus died to give you a lot of forgiveness. You're never going to out outsin his power to forgive. As long as you're his, as long as you're trusting in him. So, what about those who are living in an area where they don't have the gospel accessible to them? What about people who don't have Christian neighbors? I mean, one of the things you can do, which is perfectly fine, is you can invite someone to church. You can say, hey, I'm a Christian and Jesus is my Savior and you know He's He means the world to me because he saved me from sin and death. And you're like, I don't understand exactly what you're saying. You can say, well come to church. And Join us for worship and then we can talk afterwards and you can do that. And and I will do my best to preach the gospel and to try to make it as clear as I can They're going to have questions probably and you should be prepared to answer those questions or you can ask me and I'll get together with you and I'll sit down and try to answer the questions. But we can all pray and that's great. But what about those places where there's no churches And there are not very many believers. What do we do then? Well, we've got to take the good news to them. We've got to send them. We've got to go and we've got to send. So let me just encourage you, be a herald of the gospel to those that God has put in your life. but also send out and support the heralds that God is taking to the parts of the world where there are not many churches and not many heralds. That could be in Northern Uganda among peoples that are largely unreached or taking the gospel through there into South Sudan, the Republic of Sudan, or you know Haiti needs the Lord, but so does Scotland. One of the reasons why I'm going there this summer. Scotland, we don't think about it as a place that is unreached. But functionally, it's as unreached as almost any place in the world anymore. Church attendance in Scotland is down to about 3% of the population. And a lot of the churches that are there are not preaching the gospel. And so to go and to be able to preach the gospel, um is is really, really important. And one thing you can keep in mind while we're in Scotland on those four Sundays, last two Sundays in July, first two Sundays in August, It's different in Scotland. The outreach service is the evening service. So, and the time difference will be about when you guys are wrapping up worship here, we'll be in the evening worship service there. So pray during your morning worship that the evening service will be an effective way because I was going into it thinking Oh, an evening service, that's going to be a small handful of mature believers. I'll do some deep, you know, discipleship type stuff or whatever. And I got corrected on that. at this pastor's fellowship with a bunch of people from Scotland. They're like, no, the evening service is always the outreach service. Um and because typically it's only the more evangelical churches, it's the gospel preaching churches that have an evening service. So in the town where we're going to be, I think our church is going to be the only church in town that has an evening service. So they get visitors from all over. Not that it's huge, but they that's where they get visitors. So now I'm rethinking things. I'm like, okay, I need four, I need a four-part series that's a good gospel uh clarity series, so you can be praying for that. But that's part of what we need to do. So then at the end in verses 18 to 21 of this passage. Paul comes back to the theme of the Jewish people, which as we go into chapter 11 is going to be even more prominent over the next couple of weeks. But he comes back to the Jewish people at the end, and By doing so, he's addressing all of those who don't believe. What about those who don't believe? And what he says is that the Jewish people are entirely responsible for their own disobedience to the word. as is everyone who has rejected God's revelation. So listen to it again. But I ask, have they not heard Indeed they have, for their voice has gone out to all the earth, and their words to the end of the world This is from Psalm 19. This is actually about general revelation that the sky and the stars and the sun, they they testify to who God is. And their line is going out to all the earth, their words to the end of the world. But for the Jewish people as well, they have the Word of God. Not the New Testament, but they have the Word of God that does tell them the truth. And it's all over the world, widely available. And so they're responsible for that. And then it's but I ask, did Israel not understand? Is it just like they didn't get it? They didn't understand. Well First, Moses says, I will make you jealous of those who are not a nation. With a foolish nation, I will make you angry. Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those who did not seek me. I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me. But of Israel, he says, all day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. So the Jewish people are entirely responsible for their own disobedience, as is everyone who's rejected God's revelation. Everyone in the world has access to some revelation of God. And lots and lots of the world has access to the written Word of God. The Bible, at least portions of the Bible uh have been translated into hundreds and hundreds, thousands of languages around the world. It's the most printed, most widely distributed, most widely translated, and most universally available book in the history of the world. So it's there. But creation has an even clearer, or I'm sorry, has an even broader testimony because everybody lives in the inescapable environment of revelation in God's creation. And everyone's responsible for how they respond to that revelation. It might be true that those who hear the truth of God don't understand it, but God's word is clear enough to leave people without excuse. Anyone who says, I don't believe in God, is deceiving themselves You know, just we just watched Artemis II shoot out way past the moon, go farther from Earth than any human beings ever have, and send back some pretty stunning pictures. And when you get that distance and you see those pictures and the earth is a marble floating in blackness And what they said, like, here is life. Here is air to breathe, here is water to drink, here is abundant, thriving life. Surrounded by stretches of nothing. And there's no God Or God hasn't been good to me, or God hasn't revealed Himself to me. Like, look around you. Well, sometimes when someone who doesn't believe would be like, give me your best evidence for the existence of God. What I really want to say is Everything. Like literally everything. Because you don't get anything from nothing, and you don't get an abundance of life and beauty from nothing, and you don't get an intelligent mind asking questions from nothing. That just doesn't make any sense at all. So everything, you, me, the world, all the life that's in it All of it continually testifies, and then the Bible is clear enough that even if you don't understand every part of it, You can understand, today's passage, for example, is pretty clear. You confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, you believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For Scripture says everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame, for there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. The same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call upon him For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. That's clear enough what you need to do. Believe, confess that belief, call on the name of the Lord, and be saved. What is completely absent here from Paul's thinking and from biblical thinking? Is that these people didn't come to faith in Christ because God was mean to them and didn't choose them. Now there may be some truth behind that, but that's not the reason. People don't come to faith in Christ because Well, he tells us in verse 21, we are a disobedient and contrary people. What's the main reason why someone won't confess Jesus is Lord? Because they're too busy confessing, I am Lord. And we in America do that better than anybody. Don't you tell me what to do? We celebrate this you know, self-made, rugged individual. I am the captain of my own ship. I'm gonna pilot my ship wherever I want. That's the real reason. God is not unjust. God is abundantly gracious and merciful. He brings the word near to us to our hearts. And He overcomes that stubbornness by the power of his Holy Spirit, by the gracious call, the effectual call. Because all of us were in that same state. We were all saying, I am Lord. And God came near to us graciously, changed our hearts, drew us to Christ, and was merciful to us and saved us. And so if you are saved, you can't take any trouble. It's entirely the work of God. But for someone who won't come to Christ, the blame is ultimately and entirely on them because the evidence is clear enough and the word is clear enough. So what's our conclusion and application from all of this? Well, the biggest thing is that God's sovereignty and human responsibility go together. And that should fill us with confidence and not complacency. We should be confident because God uses the heralding of his word. Faith comes by hearing and hearing the word of Christ. So God uses the heralding of his word, the sharing of his gospel to work faith in people and bring them to salvation. That should give us confidence. God will use even you. God spoke to Balaam through his donkey. If he uses you, or if he uses me, maybe he hasn't changed his methodology much. Who use anybody? So, first, if you do not know the salvation of God found in Jesus Christ, call on him today. Today is the day of salvation. Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. What does that look like? Simply pray. Talk to God. You say, Lord Jesus, I believe that you are God in human flesh. I believe that you died on the cross and you rose again from the dead. And I confess that you are the Lord, and I want you to be Lord of my life, and I want to follow you, and I want to trust in you, and I want to be yours. Please save me. It's as simple as that. You don't need those exact words, but that's basically all there is to it. You pray, and then you follow. You come to church and you worship and you read your Bible and you learn and you grow. And you're not doing all those things because you're hoping to earn salvation. You're doing all those things because you meant What you said when you called on the name of the Lord and said, Save me, I want you to be my Lord. If you want him to save you and you want him to be your Lord, that means you intend to follow Him. And you intend to belong to him forever. Belonging to him means belonging to his people, and so we welcome you to join us here at Forest Hill. But don't put that off. If you're being convicted that Jesus is Lord and that you need him to save you, call on him today and ask him to save you. Secondly, if you are a believer and you have unbelieving family members and neighbors and co-workers and friends, pray for them And pray for opportunities to herald the good news to them. And when those opportunities come, take advantage of those opportunities. I'm not saying that every family gathering, every birthday celebration, every time you get together with your family, you should be preaching the gospel from the time you get there to the time you leave. But pray for them and then pray that you would have opportunities. And then when those opportunities come, take advantage of them. God answers those prayers. You'll find yourself in a situation where it's like I'm pretty sure this is one of those moments where the ball has just been set on the T and the bat's been placed in my hand because here's my brother, here's my uncle, here's my child, here's my and they've just asked me this question. The only way for me to answer this honestly and truthfully is from the heart as a believer and to share Christ with them. Do it. Do it. Third, generously support the missions of the church by taking the gospel to the nations through your prayers, through your giving, and also prayerfully consider going. We do go to Uganda just about once a year, every year. And you might think, well, I can't do pastoral training. There's other work to be done. We're doing more and more of that other kind of work as we have other people who are going. So if you want to go, there is opportunity for you to go. Prayerfully consider that. There's other opportunities when you go to West Virginia and serve. There's opportunities for that. Or you can go with another mission team from another church, that would be fine too. But support, pray, give, and go. Fourth Pray specifically for the salvation of the Jewish people. This was a burden on Paul's heart that's going to become even more clear in the next two weeks as we move into chapter 11. I was convicted, we had a talk on that at the pastor's fellowship on the salvation of the Jews, and I was convicted that I don't pray enough for the salvation of the Jewish people. And it was such a burden on Paul's heart expressed in Scripture very clearly. We need to pray for the salvation of the Jewish people. And fifth, finally, praise God. Praise God for his sovereign, amazing, saving grace that saved a wretch like you and me. Left to our own hearts, we would be that stubborn and disobedient people. But God's graciously brought the Word of Christ near to our hearts, and He softened our hearts to believe, and He deserves all the glory and praise for that. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your salvation. Thank you for the gift of your son. Thank you for your spirit who draws us to your sons through the word. Thank you that we have life if we just call on the name of the Lord. I do pray for anyone who is here, right here, right now. And who does not know Jesus as Lord, who could not say honestly that they've confessed with their mouth that Jesus is Lord and that they've believed in their heart that God has raised him from the dead. I pray that even right now your Holy Spirit would work. To bring conviction and to bring change, and that they would even right now call on the name of the Lord. They would call on you, Lord Jesus, to save them and to be their Lord. Father, we pray for our unbelieving family members and co-workers and neighbors and friends. We pray that you would soften their hearts. That you would draw them to Christ. We pray that you would use us. Give us opportunities. Make those opportunities clear and give us the words to say that we might be faithful heralds of the good news of the King. Send out your word to the nations. Draw them in, that Christ might be worshipped in more and more languages, in more and more places, all over the world. And thank you for your grace and saving us. We praise you with Jesus Nailed. Amen.