Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We are learning to know our Savior better, and I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is good to be with you on this midday of the 24th week. Luke chapter 9 is what we're beginning today. As we look at verses 1 to 27, we're going to be asking the question, how does God advance his kingdoms? Vitally important question for us as believers to consider. We're also going to be reading and praying Psalm 118. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this time together. Please teach us from your word, and please shape our hearts and minds and lives by your word and by your spirit, that we might know and love and follow Jesus better. We pray this in his name. Luke 9, 1-27. And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases. And he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal. And he said to them, Take nothing for your journey, no staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money, and do not have two tunics. And whatever house you stay, you enter, stay there, and from there depart. And Wherever they do not receive you, when you leave that town, shake off the dust from your feet as a testimony against them. And they departed and went through the villages, preaching the gospel, and healing everywhere Now Herod the Tetrarch heard about all that was happening, and he was perplexed, because it was said by some that John had been raised from the dead, by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the prophets of old had risen Herod said, John I beheaded, but who is this about whom I hear such things? And he sought to hear him. On their return, the apostles told him all that they had done, and he took them and withdrew apart to a town called Bethseda. When the crowds learned it, they followed him, and he welcomed them and spoke to them of the kingdom of God and cured those who had need of healing. Now the day began to wear away, and the twelve came and said to him, Send the crowd away into the surrounding villages and countryside to find lodging and get provisions, for we are here in a desolate place And he said to them, You give them something to eat. They said, We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we are to go and buy food for all these people, for there were about five thousand men And he said to his disciples, have them sit down in groups of fifty each. And they did so, and had them all sit down. And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and set a blessing over them. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd. and they all ate, and were satisfied, and what was left over was picked up twelve baskets of broken pieces Now it happened that as he was praying alone, the disciples were with him. And he asked them, why do the crowds, who do the crowds, say that I am? And they answered, John the Baptist, but others say Elijah, and others that one of the prophets of old has risen. Then he said to them, But who do you say that I am? And Peter answered, The Christ of God. And he strictly charged them and commanded them to tell this to no one, saying, the Son of Man must suffer many things. And be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. And he said to all, If any one would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself? For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his glory, and the glory of the Father and of the Holy Angels. But I tell you truly There are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God. So how does God's kingdom advance in the world? How does God use his people to bring his kingdom, his will, and his glory more and more into the lives and cultures of this fallen, sin-marred world? Every follower of Jesus Christ should be intensely concerned with these questions because they get at the heart of the mission of God's people. It's why we're here in the world. It's what we're told to pray for and work for. Today's passage in Luke 9 shows us a clear and compelling picture of kingdom missions. According to Luke 9, 1-6, kingdom missions involves four key elements. The first is authority. Jesus gave his disciples real authority. The same authority from Christ is given to his church today and is found in the ministry of the Word. which is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, Hebrews 4. 12. The Church of Jesus Christ stands in his world as his kingdom outpost, his mission station, his embassy to a hostile world. We serve with all of his authority communicated through the Word and the Spirit. So authority. Second, gospel proclamation. Jesus sent out the twelve to proclaim the kingdom of God. The gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ, is the proclamation of the kingdom of God. that God rules through Jesus for the saving of all who believe in him. The gospel of the kingdom, which is a royal proclamation, must be central to the Church's kingdom mission It's not a sales pitch or a plea for a decision, but it is the announcement of what God has done in Jesus Christ and what he requires as a response to his work of salvation. So authority, and then gospel proclamation, and third, healing the sick and releasing the oppressed. The disciples were sent to proc to preach and to heal. For them, the demonstration of their authority as ambassadors of Jesus involved miraculous acts of healing. For us today, we demonstrate the miracle of transformed lives and the power of the love of Jesus as we heal the sick And we serve the oppressed, seeking to set them free. So authority, gospel proclamation, healing the sick and the oppressed, and then fourth is total dependence on God Jesus told his disciples not to take anything with them, no staff, nor bag, nor money, nor bread, but to trust in God to provide everything. Now, God does not command Christians to give up all earthly possessions, but we are to be just as totally dependent on him. He is our only source of provision, protection, blessing, and fruitfulness in Kingdom Mission. With these four key elements at the heart of the disciples' mission, what was the result? First, the word spread in verses 7 to 9. As the disciples went out in faith, word about their work and about Jesus spread quickly. People noticed that something different was happening, even up to Herod the king. Second, crowds gathered, verses 10 and 11. In response to this spreading word, huge crowds gathered around Jesus to hear him speak and to see what he would do. Third, God provided. Verses 12 to 17. As people gathered and listened to the good news of the kingdom, God provided for their needs, miraculously feeding thousands. And fourth, the disciples came to know Jesus better. We see this in verses 18 to 20. The disciples themselves grew in their understanding of who Jesus really was. We can see the same fruit today if our mission and ministry in the world is committed to the same four core elements the authority of Jesus, the proclamation of the gospel, the healing of the sick, and total dependence upon God. May the Lord be pleased to grant us a strong commitment to His authority, His gospel, His loving compassion, and His provision for our every need. Psalm 118 is the psalm that we're going to be praying today, and it's it's a longer one. Yesterday we had the shortest psalm, and this is one of the longest psalms But it is absolutely centrally vital to understanding Jesus. This is the last of what are known as the Hillel Psalms from 114 to 118 And these were sung every Passover, really every one of the three uh pilgrim festivals and feasts when they were gathered, they would sing the songs of the saints on the way and they would sing the Halel Psalms, but especially during Passover and at the Passover meal, at the Last Supper, they sang the Hallel Psalms, and this is the culminating one, this is the concluding one. So it's really important. Psalm 118. O give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Let Israel say, His steadfast love endures forever. Let the house of Aaron say, His steadfast love endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord say, His steadfast love endures forever Out of my distress I called on the Lord. The Lord answered me and set me free. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do to me? The Lord is on my side, as my helper, I shall look in triumph on those who hate me. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. All nations surrounded me. In the name of the Lord I cut them off. They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side. In the name of the Lord I cut them off. They surrounded And like bees they went out like a fire among thorns. In the name of the Lord I cut them off I was pushed hard so that I was falling, but the Lord helped me. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. The right hand of the Lord exalts. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. I shall not die, but I shall live and recount the deeds of the Lord. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray. Give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. The Lord is God, and He has made His light to shine upon us. Bind the festival sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God. I will extol you Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. We're going to pray today a written prayer that I wrote based on Psalm 118. It will help us draw out the Christ-centeredness of this wonderful Psalm. We give thanks to you, Lord, for you are good. For your steadfast love endures forever Let your people say that your steadfast love endures forever. Let those who fear you say that your steadfast love endures forever When Jesus was in distress in the garden and on the cross, Lord you answered and you set him free. Like Jesus we can say, The Lord is on my side, I will not fear. What can man do to me? The Lord is on my side, as my helper, I shall look in triumph on those who hate me. Just as surely as Jesus saw victory over the grave, so we who trust in you shall see the salvation of our God. It is better to take refuge in you, O Lord, than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in you, O Lord, than to trust in princes and politicians and presidents. All nations surrounded Jesus on the cross. In the name of the Lord, he triumphantly cut them off. They surrounded him, surrounded him on every side. In the name of the Lord, he cut them off. They surrounded him like bees. They went out like a fire among thorns as they were mocking him and bruising him. In the name of the Lord he cut them off. Jesus, your son, was pushed hard so that his life and strength were failing, but you, Lord, helped him, and so you also help us. You, Lord, are my strength and my song You have become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. Jesus, the right hand of the Lord, does valiantly Jesus, the right hand of the Lord, exalts and does valiantly. He's defeated all of our enemies, sin, shame, condemnation, hell, judgment, Satan We shall not die, but we shall live and recount your deeds, O Lord. O Lord, you have disciplined us severely, but you have not given us over to death Open to us the gates of righteousness, even our access to you in Jesus Christ Himself, that we may enter in through him and give thanks to you, Lord. Jesus is. the gate of the Lord. The righteous enter to you only through Him. We thank you that you've answered us and you've become our salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is your doing, O Lord. And it's marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that you have made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. You, O Lord, our God, you've made us. Your light. You've made us as your light has shined upon us. As Jesus, our redeeming sacrifice, was offered freely on the altar of the cross. Now you are at work in us and through us for your glory in the world. You are our God. We will give thanks to you. You. You are our God. We will extol you. We give thanks to you, O Lord, for you are good, and your steadfast love, your hasid, endures forever. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.