Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus and the Gospels. Another day together in the Gospels, getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Our third day of our third week brings us to Matthew 6 as we continue through the Sermon on the Mount, the greatest sermon ever preached. Let's pray. Father in heaven, teach us from your word. Take these words of the Lord Jesus, our King and Savior, and write them on our hearts by the power of your Holy Spirit. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So we're looking at Matthew 6, 1 to 15, and then we're going to pray Psalm 13, along with the Lord's Prayer, which is in this section of Matthew 6. Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people, in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do, in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly I say to you, they have received fair reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrite, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door. and pray to your father who is in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do For they think that they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them. For your Father knows what you need before you ask him. Pray then like this Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For if you forgive others their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. Well, that's Matthew 6, 1-15. Some things are so familiar that we've heard them so many times and we still don't really understand them. And I think the Lord's Prayer as this prayer from Jesus has come to be known and memorized and recited and prayed fits into this category. We we don't see what Jesus is really teaching us here because it just sort of becomes a rote. Jesus says pray like this. He's not asking us to simply memorize and repeat this prayer. He doesn't say pray this. He says pray like this. He's giving us a pattern that we should pray. And also by extension, not only how we should pray, but also how we should live. First half of this short prayer is focused entirely on God. You see that? It's the honor of his name, it's the coming of his kingdom, it's the fulfilling of his will. In this, Jesus shows us that prayer is first and foremost about God Just as life is first and foremost about God, we must seek first God and his kingdom in prayer and in life The reverence of God's name, the furtherance of his kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. Once we have our priorities properly focused on God and His name and His kingdom and His will, we then turn to our needs. But notice that our needs are primarily spiritual in nature. Jesus teaches us to ask for daily bread, which could mean basic physical needs, or our daily spiritual nourishment from Jesus, the bread of life. I think it actually means both. But then the majority of the second half is clearly focused on issues of sin, forgiveness, temptation. Jesus' perspective in prayer is an eternal one. He wants us focused on the right things. God is the most important, and our greatest need is to have a life that is aligned with, united to, and committed to glorifying Him. So we need to pray like that. Well, let's turn our attention to Psalm 13 now as we continue our journey through the Psalms in prayer. And this is a tough Psalm, a tough prayer. So we're going to pray at the end, combining themes from the Lord's Prayer with Psalm 13. Because God's prayers that he gives us in the Psalter are realistic. And this is one of those. To the choir master of Psalm with David. How long, O Lord? Will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Consider and answer me, O Lord my God, light up my eyes lest I sleep the sleep of death. Lest my enemies say, I have prevailed over him, lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken, but I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord, because he has dealt bountifully with me. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are our God. May your name be hallowed in our lives. Whether we feel very close to you or whether we feel like you are a million miles away and we feel forsaken by you, may our first Focus B that your name is hallowed, is regarded as holy, is honored in our lives, in our churches. Father, be honored May your kingdom come and your will be done in our lives by your Holy Spirit living within us. Bring us through when we're when we're going through hard times and it seems like The wickedness around us is winning, or it seems like the wickedness within us is winning, and we wonder where you are. May we trust in your steadfast love? May we know that you are being faithful to bring your kingdom and to work out your will on earth as it is in heaven, in our lives, in your church, throughout the world. Help us to trust you to meet our daily needs. Help us to trust you. And to forgive others, even as we have been forgiven. When others wrong us, instead of getting self-righteous and defensive, let us remember how much we have been forgiven, that we might quickly and graciously forgive And keep us far away from temptation, that we might honor you with our lives. We ask this all in Jesus' precious name and for his glory. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for another time of walking with Jesus through the Gospels and praying the Psalms. Tomorrow we're going to move on to the next part of Matthew 6. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord. The Lord