Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, our third week together in our journey through the Gospels this year. And we come to Matthew 5, 17 to 30, the second half of Matthew chapter 5. And also we're going to be praying Psalm 11 today And the question that we're asking ourselves today is, how did Christ fulfill the law? And so then how do Christians relate to the law? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It's perfect. Thank you for your son who came into this world to teach us the truth, to teach us how to understand your word properly. He is the truth and the incarnation and fulfillment of your law. Teach us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 5, 17 to 30, do not think I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the law until all is accomplished Therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven But whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder, and whoever murders will be liable to judgment. But I say to you that whoever Insults sorry but I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment Whoever insults his brother will be liable to the counsel, and whoever says you fool, will be liable to the hell of fire. So if you are offering your gift at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you Leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother and then come and offer your gift Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge, and the judge to the guard, and you be put in prison. Truly I say to you You will never get out until you have paid the last penny. You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that every one who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away, for it is better for you to lose one of your members than with your whole body to be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away, for it is better that you should lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. Jesus said he didn't come to abolish the law of the prophets, but to fulfill them. Many people today seem very confused about God's law. Christians seem to know that we're not supposed to commit adultery or steal, and that the Ten Commandments still generally apply to believers. although we don't take the third and fourth commandments very seriously compared to previous generations of Christians. We also seem to know that laws calling for the execution of adulterers and homosexuals are not to be carried out today. That's And when we go to church, of course, we don't offer sacrificial animals and we're not sprinkled by blood. So what's our basis for thinking and acting this way? Is it just holy intuition that causes us to observe some laws and disregard others? Well, Jesus said that he came not to abolish the law and the prophets, but to fulfill them. He then said, not an iota, not a dot will pass from the law until all is accomplished. How did Christ fulfill the law? And what continuing relevance does the law have for believers today? It's helpful to think of three aspects of God's law There's a moral aspect. At the heart of the law is this moral aspect, which ultimately reflects the character of God. The moral law is summarized in the Ten Commandments and then was summarized by Jesus in the two great commandments to love God. and to love our neighbors as ourselves. But there's also a civil aspect to the law, because Israel was a theocracy, a kingdom among the kingdoms of the world ruled by God. But Jesus nullified the theocratic state of Israel when he said, My kingdom is not of this world. And then he commissioned his apostles to go and make disciples of all the nations. So this civil aspect of Israel's laws was really fulfilled when Jesus the King altered the nature of the kingdom and its relationship to the kingdoms of the world. And then there's a ceremonial aspect. The law regulated Israel's worship, regulations for cleanliness, dietary restrictions. They were designed to mark God's people as holy, as distinct from the nations, and then you had a sacrificial system and a priestly system that was determined to To show God's people their need for forgiveness, their need for cleansing, their need for a sacrifice. But Jesus fulfilled the ceremonial aspect of the law when he died on the cross. And he ascended into heaven as our great high priest. He then sent his Holy Spirit to indwell all believers, and it is the Holy Spirit who marks us as God's holy people, not dietary laws or clothing regulation. The moral law of God reflects his moral character. Christ fulfilled it by keeping it perfectly and earning a perfect righteousness for us in our place. But we remain obligated to keep God's commands, his moral commands, not to earn righteousness or salvation, but because the Holy Spirit is conforming us to the image of Christ and that is reflected in the moral law. So far from lowering the moral standard, when Jesus taught on the moral law, he clarified. He applied it in deep, thorough, and challenging ways. And we'll see that tomorrow as we take a look at the rest of this chapter. But right now let's turn our attention to Psalm 11 as we pray our way through the Psalms. Psalm 11 is written to the choir master, the Psalm of David, In the Lord I take refuge. How can you say to my soul, Flee like a bird to your mountain, for behold the wicked bend the bow. They have fitted their arrow to the string to shoot in the dark at the upright in heart. If the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do? The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord's throne is in heaven. His eyes see. His eyelids test the children of man. The Lord tests the righteous, but his soul hates the wicked and the one who loves violence. Let him rain coals on the wicked. Fire and sulphur and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup, for the Lord is righteous. He loves righteous deeds. The upright shall behold his face. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we live in a wicked world, in a wicked generation. And it's very easy for us to get afraid, to be anxious. If the foundations are destroyed, what will the righteous do? That's the voice of anxiety. You are in heaven. You are enthroned. You are ruling as the sovereign supreme over all. You are not wringing your hands, wondering what you're going to do You uphold the righteous. We are made righteous because of the righteousness of Jesus. We are made upright because Jesus is our righteousness. You hate wickedness. Conform us in our character, in our speech, in our actions. Conform us to the likeness of Christ. Make us more and more truly righteous in heart and behavior, even as you have already made us righteous in your sight through Jesus, our perfect righteousness. It's in his name we pray Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me, for walking through the Gospels. And tomorrow we're going to continue to look at Matthew 5 and see what Jesus is calling us to. in terms of this holy standard. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.