Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We come into holy ground today. All of God's word, of course, is holy ground, but here we get to hear the Lord Jesus praying for us. How wonderful is that? Right? Someone once said If I could hear Jesus praying for me in the next room, I would not fear anything. But distance makes no difference I forget where that quote comes from, but I love that. Jesus is praying for us. And if we want to know how he's praying for us, our passage today shows us that. What does Jesus pray for us? Let's pray and ask him to help us understand his word. Lord Jesus, our Savior, thank you so much that you are praying for us even now. Holy Spirit, please help us to understand these words so that we can know our heart of our Savior better. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So John 17, what does Jesus pray for us? When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father. The hour has come. Glorify your son, that the son may glorify you, since you have given him authority over all flesh. to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do, and now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you, for I have given them the words that you gave me. And they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you, and they have believed that you sent me. I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me. that they may be one, even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost, except the Son of Destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled But now I am coming to you. And these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth. I do not ask for these only. but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us. so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one. so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me might be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you And these know that you have sent me. I have made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them. You hear the words of the Lord Jesus praying for you, praying for me, praying for us, for unity for joy, for love, for sanctification in the truth, right? Many people have said that this passage here in John 17 is the true Lord's Prayer And the prayer that we call the Lord's Prayer should really be called the Disciples' Prayer, because it's a prayer that Jesus gave to us to pray as his disciples. Others have called this the high priestly prayer, that Jesus, our high priest, is kneeling before he goes to the cross, before he agonizes for himself in the garden, which is a little bit later. saying, let this cup pass from me. Before he prays in agony for himself, he prays for us. From the other gospels we know that Jesus would later be in agony. over his coming crucifixion, but he takes time here to to pray for us and to intercede for us. After he's taught his disciples, he prays for his disciples Jesus' first words in this prayer are are just pregnant with meaning. Father, the hour has come. Repeatedly throughout the Gospels, he said things like, My hour has not yet come, my time has not yet come, but now it's Father, the hour has come. And that is a reference to the cross. Always the hour or my hour in the Gospels is Jesus talking about the cross. He's going to do the Father's will. He's going to offer himself as a sacrifice for the atonement for our sins. By the way, that's the focus of our sermon this coming Sunday, is Jesus and the atonement that He makes, the redemption through his propitiation on the cross. Jesus is fully aware of this. It's coming. It's imminent. And this is his final time of extended intercession for his people before he gives himself up for us. And so what are the priorities we see in this prayer? First of all Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you. Nothing is more centrally important to the heart of God, to the heart of Jesus. And should be to our hearts, then the glory of God, the glory of the Father and the Son, the glory of God. It's what God is most concerned to display And it's what our souls most need to see. God cannot give his glory to another. He will not give his glory to another. He alone is God. We don't need to seek any other glory. This should keep us from trying to seek glory for ourselves. Our glory is in Christ Jesus All competing glories are cheap and hollow and lifeless and fraudulent. Only the glory of God is eternally, deeply satisfying and real. Second uh priority we see, Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me. Jesus came to reveal God to us, to his disciples, to bring us to know God, because he says this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. A lot of people want to say, well, why wouldn't God just give eternal life to people? Why do we have to come to know him? Why do we have to believe in him? Because he is eternal life. And to know him is to know eternal life, and to not know him is to not know eternal life because he is eternal life. And so we need to be kept in the name of God. We need to know the name of God. So Jesus is praying for you right now, for me right now, that we would keep believing in him, that we would keep knowing him, that we would keep trusting him. And his prayer for us is what keeps us in the faith. Third, I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. This is important. Sometimes we just want to escape. But God has work for us to do here. Jesus has a mission for us here in this world. We need to be on mission and we need to be kept from the evil one. Protection, not removal from danger. That's the prayer of Jesus for us. Fourth, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, so I've sent them into the world. We need to be sanctified. We need to be set apart. And the way we're set apart is through the truth of God that's given to us in the scriptures. We go out into the world as Jesus went out into the world. What do we go out into the world with? Not our own opinions. Not our own gifts and abilities, not our own charming personalities. We go out into the world with the Word of God. That which sanctifies us is that which we take into the world. Fifth, I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us. so that the world may believe that you have sent me. This part of Jesus prayer is often, I think, misunderstood. People People sometimes think that what Jesus is praying for here is external organizational unity for his church, but the prayer is actually much deeper than that. He's praying for our unity in Christ and in the Father. which alone truly unites us as one with one another. We can be organizationally divided. So for example, we are Presbyterian church. We have certain practices and convictions that we have because we're Presbyterian. We have elders, you know, we practice covenant child baptism, we believe in covenant theology, we believe in the regulative principle of worship. That means organizationally we have to be separate from other Christians who might practice believers' baptism or who might have a different form of church government like bishops or who might not follow the regular principle of worship. But an organizational separation is not a spiritual separation. Anglicans, Baptists, non-denominational, anybody whose heart belongs to the Lord by faith. Lutheran, Methodist, if they believe in Jesus and they're one with him, then they're one with us too. We are their brothers and sisters in Christ. We are one. Unity is not achieved by organization, but by union with Christ. And so I am truly one with everyone who is truly one with Christ. Not because we belong to the same organization, but because we both belong truly to him. So this is how Jesus prays for us. If you read Paul's prayers in his letters, you would see these same these same priorities reflected, that we would glorify God, that we would know his love, that we would be united in one heart and one mind, that we would be Engaged in the world in mission, but kept by God in sanctification. So this is how Jesus prays, this is how the apostles prayed. Is it how we pray? Is this our priority in prayer as we pray for one another? It should be. It should be. Right? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that Jesus, our great high priest, Jesus our Lord and Savior, never stops praying for us. That's our hope. That's our anchor for our souls. That is our stability and our strength. The ongoing continual intercession of our mediator, our Redeemer, your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you, Jesus, that you never stop praying for us. Thank you that you always have us on your heart and on your lips before the Father. Keep us in the truth. Keep us following you. Keep us loving one another. We pray this. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for John 17. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.