Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our third day of our ninth week, and we are here in Matthew 18, looking at verses 21 to 35, and then we'll be praying Psalm 44. Our focus in Matthew, we're asking the question, how can we possibly forgive everything people do to us? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you that in Jesus Christ we have received forgiveness, rich, abundant, freely given, paid for by the blood of Christ on the cross. Help us to be a forgiving people as you teach us from your word today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our focus is verses 21 to 35. I'm going to start reading in verse 15. Because verses 15 to 20 also deal with this theme of forgiveness and reconciliation to a brother. If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. Truly I say to you. Whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you, if if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. for where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them. Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me, and I forgive him, as many as seven times? Jesus said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy seven times. Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents, and since he could not pay his master order him to be sold. with his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred deneri and seizing him he began to choke him, saying, Pay what you owe So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you. He refused, and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt. When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place. Then his master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you? And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. So my heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from the heart. If you have lived any time at all in this world, someone has hurt you deeply and badly Maybe you feel like lots of people have hurt you deeply and badly. Maybe a parent or another trusted adult abused you as a child. Maybe Someone you trusted with a deep dark secret told your secret to others, exposing you to humiliating shame. Maybe a spouse betrayed you. broke his or her marriage vows. Maybe a child has rebelled in a profoundly painful way. The pain we can inflict on one another is nothing small or light or trivial. In the parable Jesus tells in today's passage, the unforgiving servant is owed a substantial amount of money His fellow servant owes him 100 denarii. A single denarius was a daily wage for a common laborer, so this is about 20 weeks worth of pay. It's like $10,000 or more If somebody owed me $10,000, I don't think I would just be able to forgive it. Could you? Except for one small fact in the story. The servant who was owed a hundred deneri had just been forgiven ten thousand talents. Well, if a single denarius is a single day's wage, then one talent is twenty years of wages. That's right, just one talent is twenty years of wages So this servant had been forgiven 200,000 years worth of wages at a rate of $25,000 per year. It's about $5 billion or so, depending upon you know, precious metal prices. But this this is an an enormous debt. So how could the servant possibly forgive a debt of $10,000 only if he knew? That he had just been forgiven a debt of five billion dollars. The forgiveness of the much larger sum puts the substantial debt he is owed into perspective. And so this is the only way we can forgive anyone if we know how much God has forgiven us. You see, we are the servant who has been forgiven a debt of 200,000 years wages. The wages of sin is death. The death we've earned by our sin is a debt of eternal death. All of our sins are sins against God. But Jesus paid the full debt of our sin. He settled our account. He cried out, it is finished on the cross. In other words, paid in full. If you've been hurt, hurt badly, deeply, powerfully, by someone else, there is only one place where you will find the forgiveness. to extend to that person. And that forgiveness is found at the foot of the cross. There When we receive the forgiveness from Christ, we see how much we've been forgiven, we see how much it cost to purchase that forgiveness there and only there. Do we get the grace and the perspective we need to forgive even the worst that anyone has ever done to us? Well, let's go now to Psalm 44, and we'll pray this together. To the choir master, a maskle of the sons of Korah. O God, we have heard with our ears. Our fathers have told us what deeds you performed in their days and the days of old. You with your own hand drove out the nations, but them you planted. You afflicted the peoples, but them you set free. For not by their own sword did they win the land, nor did their own arm save them, but your right hand and your arm and the light of your face, for you delighted in them You are my king, O God, ordained salvation for Jacob. Through you, we push down our foes. Through your name, we tread down those who rise up against us For not in my bow do I trust, nor can my sword save me, but you have saved us from our foes, and have put to shame those who hate us. In God we have boasted continually and we will give thanks to your name forever. But you have rejected us and disgraced us and have not gone out with our armies. You have made us turn back and flee from the foe, and those who hate us have gotten spoil. You have made us like sheep for slaughter, and scattered us among the nations. You've sold your people for a trifle, demanding no high price for them You've made us the taunt of our neighbors, the derision and scorn of those around us. You've made us a byword among the nations, a laughing stock among the peoples. All day long my disgrace is before me, and shame has covered my face at the sound of the taunter and reviler, at the sight of the enemy and the avenger. All this has come upon us, though we have not forgotten you And we have not been false to your covenant. Our heart has not turned back, nor have our steps departed from your way. You have broken us in the place of jackals, and covered us with the shadow of death. If we had forgotten the name of our God, or spread out our hands to a foreign God, would not God discover this? For he knows the secrets of our heart. Yet for your sake we are killed all day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. Awake! Why are you sleeping, O Lord? Rouse yourself. Do not reject us forever. Why do you hide your face? Why do you forget our affliction and oppression For our soul is bowed down to the dust. Our belly clings to the ground. Rise up, come to our help, redeem us for the sake of your steadfast love. What do we do with a psalm like Psalm 44? It sounds odd because we know we're not righteous and we know God hasn't forsaken us. So we need to keep that in mind. But you see, the Psalms really reflect the heart of Christ and his experience. Christ was fully faithful to his Father in everything. He never was unfaithful in the slightest thing. And yet he was forsaken by his father on the cross where he was paying for our sins. And also This psalm tells us of the experience of those who are being persecuted unfairly. When Jesus stopped Saul of Tarsus on the road to Damascus, he said, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? The persecuted church experiences the afflictions of Christ. So let's pray for the persecuted church together. from Psalm 44. Even as we think about what Jesus suffered for our forgiveness. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus. At the cross, you took the wrath of God upon yourself. You were forsaken by God. You were cursed and crushed for our forgiveness, for our cleansing, for our saving. May we remember that when we are in a position where we need to forgive others who have wronged us. May we freely forgive even as we have been freely forgiven. And Lord, we pray for your persecuted church Around the world, your church faces violent opposition, social exclusion, discrimination Reviling, not because they've been unfaithful to you, but sometimes expressly because they've been faithful to you So please give them strength. Please give them the ability to forgive their enemies. Please give them victory over the oppressor who is trying to silence them. Please give them confidence in you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again as we've been walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope you can join me tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.