Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you could join us for this fourth day of our 15th week together in the Gospels. We're in Mark chapter 5. verses 1 to 20. Today we're asking, how should we respond to the work of Jesus in our lives? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that your mercies are new every morning, that your faithfulness is great and unfailing, that your word is powerful, living, and active. Please do your work in our hearts by your Holy Spirit. Please write your word on our hearts and change us and draw us closer to Christ. We pray in His name. Amen. Mark 5, 1-20. They came to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Garrisones. And when Jesus had stepped out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the tombs. a man with an unclean spirit. He lived among the tombs, and no one could bind him any more, not even with a chain. But for he had often been bound with shackles and chains, but he wrenched the chains apart, and he broke the shackles in pieces. No one had the strength to subdue him night and day among the tombs and on the mountains, he was always crying out and cutting himself with stones. And when he saw Jesus from afar He ran and fell down before him, and crying out with a loud voice he said, What have you to do with me? Jesus, Son of the Most High God, I adjure you, by God, do not torment me. For he was saying to him, Come out of the man, you unclean spirit And Jesus asked him, What is your name? He replied, My name is Legion, for we are many. And he begged him earnestly not to send him out of the country. Now, a great herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside, and they begged him, saying, Send us to the pigs. Let us enter them. So he gave them permission. And the unclean spirits came out of him and entered the pigs, and the herd, numbering about two thousand, rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the sea. The herdsmen fled and told it in the city and in the country. And people came to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man, the one who had the legion. Sitting there, clothed, and in his right mind, and they were afraid. And those who had seen it described to them what had happened to the demon-possessed man and to the pigs. And they began to beg Jesus to depart from their region. As he was getting in the boat, the man who had been possessed with demons begged him that he might be with him. And he did not permit him, but said to him, Go home to your friends, and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you. And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him, and everyone marveled. Imagine being possessed by a legion of demons. A Roman legion was made up of ten cohorts of about 480 soldiers each. So a legion could be four or five thousand troops. We don't know exactly how many uh demons possessed this man, but we do know they were cast into a herd of around two thousand pigs. Being possessed by just one demon is a terrifying thought, but being possessed by thousands of them is truly unthinkable. The fact that Jesus was able to cast out these thousands of demons and set this man free is amazing. And yet the work of God in delivering you and me from our sin and condemnation and from the power of death is also amazing. Jesus was able to cast out these demons with authoritative words. The miracle of our deliverance and salvation required the death and resurrection of Jesus to accomplish. The world's reaction to this man's great deliverance is perhaps unexpected, though it shouldn't be. Instead of Having crowds of sick and demon-possessed people line up for healing, as happened elsewhere in Israel, the people in the garrisons, which is a largely Gentile area, wanted Jesus to leave were given a clue as to their spiritual state by the fact that they're they were keeping 2,000 pigs in an area that was part of Israel. The world does not praise the work of Jesus in bringing deliverance for two main reasons. First of all, the world does not understand and cannot control the power of Jesus, and so he is a threat. The world understands coercion, but not transformation. It's a power greater than their own, and so they fear and hate Jesus for it. And secondly, Jesus threatens the world's standard of living. In this case, 2,000 pigs died. This was an act of judgment, as this community was disobeying God's law at the time by having these pigs. In the Book of Acts, we see a fortune-telling slave girl set free from demons and lose her fortune-telling ability. We also see Demetrius the silversmith leading the mob in Ephesus against Paul because the gospel threatened his idol making business. The bottom line, because sin is a profitable business, the world hates it when people are saved from it. But how should we respond to God's miraculous work of deliverance in our lives? This demon-possessed man is an example for all of us. He wanted to follow Jesus and to get away from the place where he had suffered and where people would be bothering him, but Jesus sent him into that difficult place. and asked him to testify to the truth of what Jesus had done for him. He obeyed and went Jesus sends us into our homes, our places of work, our neighborhoods, and our relationships with the good news of what He has done for us. He calls us not to be ashamed, but to testify to the truth of our deliverance. Are we amazed at what Jesus has done for us? And if we are amazed, will we obey and testify? Let's go to Psalm 75. It's written to the choir master, according to do not destroy. It's a psalm of Asaph, and it's a song. We give thanks to you, O God. We give thanks, for your name is near. We recount your wondrous deeds. At the set time that I appoint, I will judge with equity. When the earth totters and all its inhabitants, it is I who keep it steady and its pillars. I say to the boastful, do not boast, and to the wicked, do not lift up your horn, do not lift up your horn on high, or speak with haughty neck For not from the east or from the west, and not from the wilderness comes lifting up, but it is God who executes judgment putting down one, lifting up another, for in the hand of the Lord there is a cup with foaming wine well mixed, and he pours out from it, and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs. But I will declare it forever. I will sing praises to the God of Jacob. All the horns of the wicked I will cut off, but the horns of the righteous shall be lifted up. Notice the confident joy of proclaiming something that the world doesn't want to hear because it's a message of judgment ultimately. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, you come and you bring judgment. Lord Jesus, you brought judgment into this world, but also salvation. You brought deliverance. And you brought the light to expose the darkness because you are the light who exposes the darkness. And Lord Jesus, when you come again, you will judge the living and the dead forever. The world hates that. The world hates that coming day, but we rejoice because you have saved us. We rejoice because you are strong and mighty and wise and holy and good. Do your work. And give us the grace to proclaim and to praise you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you. Again, I hope you can join me tomorrow, and I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.