Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Here in the middle of week 16, we are in Mark 7, verses 1 to 23. where we're going to be asking this question, how does human tradition undermine God's word? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Your word is truth. Pure, inspired by the Holy Spirit, written by those you chose to be your instruments to bring your revelation to us, showing us Christ, showing us our need, showing us the truth. Help us to receive your word and walk in your word today by faith to your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Mark 7, 1-23. Now when the Pharisees gathered to him with some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem, They saw that some of his disciples ate with hands that were defiled, that is, unwashed. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands properly. holding to the tradition of the elders. And when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other traditions that they observe, such as the washing of cups and pots and copper vessels and dining couches. And the Pharisees and the scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with defiled hands? And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips. But their heart is far from me. In vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. You leave the commandment of God and hold to the tradition of men. And he said to them, You have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition. For Moses said, Honor your father and your mother. And whoever tells his father or his mother, Whatever you would have gained from me is Corbin, that is given to God, then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother. Thus making void the Word of God by your tradition that you have handed down, and many such things you do. And he called the people to him again, and said to them, Hear me, all of you, and understand. There is nothing outside a person that by going into him can defile him But the things that come out of a person are what defile him. And when he had entered the house and left the people, his disciples asked him about the parable. And he said to them, Then are you also without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him, since it enters not his heart, but his stomach, and is expelled Thus he declared all foods clean. And he said, What comes out of a person is what defiles him, for from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness, all these come from within, and they defile a person. Jesus had many run-ins with religious teachers of his day. It is rather troubling to stop and realize that the people who knew the scriptures the best and who taught others the way of God were the very people he most opposed. They are the people who opposed Jesus. They sought to have him killed. Many people would have taken this as a call to oppose organized religion of any kind, but the same Jesus who opposed the religious leaders of The Jewish people also established his church and appointed leaders for it. So what was the real problem? The heart of the conflict seems to come out clearly in today's passage. The religious leaders had elevated their traditions to the same status as Scripture. which practically meant that their religious traditions replaced and overruled Scripture. Whenever human traditions, even good and sincere ones, are given the same kind of emphasis and weight as God's Word, problems arise and multiply Here are some of the consequences of the exaltation of human tradition we can see in today's passage. First of all, people begin to judge others on the basis of their adherence to the tradition and not to God's word. Suddenly people can be condemned because they don't wash their hands properly, according to the ceremonial traditions of the religious community. The second is that people begin to shape their lives by their traditions instead of by scripture. The conception of what should and should not be done becomes guided by tradition, even when that tradition conflicts with scripture And then third, in cases of conflict, one standard must reign supreme, and that standard almost always becomes the tradition. Jesus' harshest criticism was over the rejection of the commandment of God in favor of the tradition of men. This is really the test of our traditions. Are we willing to abandon them if They if a situation arises where they conflict with Scripture. And fourth, people lose sight of what sin is and of what makes us acceptable or unacceptable before God. In this case Dietary laws replaced righteous speech as the standard for being clean or unclean. In other cases we can begin to think that the type of clothing we wear, the way we style our hair, the kind of worship service we have all determine whether we are acceptable to God or not. In this we lose sight of the definition of sin and of the way of salvation. The problem with human beings is that we are very prone to traditionalism. But how can we avoid it? Simply put, we must commit to the Bible as the standard and to holding each other accountable to being biblical in all that we teach and practice Together, standing on God's Word, we can stand against the temptation of encroaching traditionalism. Alright, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 79. Psalm 79 is a Psalm of Asaph, and Asaph is crying out in distress. O God, the nations have come into your inheritance. They have defiled your holy people. They have laid Jerusalem in ruins. They have given the bodies of your servants to the birds of the heavens for food. The flesh of your faithful to the beasts of the earth. They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem, and there was no one to bury them. We have become a taunt to our neighbors, mocked and derided by those around us. How long, O Lord? Will you be angry forever? Will your jealousy burn like fire? Pour out your anger on the nations that do not know you, and on kingdoms that do not call upon your name for they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his habitation. Do not remember against us our former iniquities Let your compassion come speedily to meet us, for we are brought very low. Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of your name. Deliver us and atone for our sins for your name's sake. Why should the nations say, Where is their God? Let the avenging of the outpoured blood of your servants be known among the nations before our eyes. Let the groans of the prisoners come before you, according to your great power, preserve those doomed to die. Return sevenfold into the lap of our neighbors the taunts with which they have taunted you, O Lord. But we your people The sheep of your pasture will give thanks to you forever. From generation to generation, we will recount your praise. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, we see the reality that the world hates you and hates your people in so many different ways Unjust governments, radical groups, deceptive elements within the media, just all attack and assault your people. But we thank you that you have atoned for our sins. You've atoned for our sins by the blood of your Son You've cleansed us, you've vindicated us by removing our greatest enemies, sin, the devil, death, hell, vanquished, removed forever. So may we give thanks, and may we walk in joy, and may we honor you with our lips and with our lives, being guided by your word and your spirit We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.