Good morning and welcome. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. You have tuned in to day five of our Advent Devotionals for 2025. We're looking at scripture and carols, looking at some of the favorite Christmas carols and the scripture that inspired them and the stories of how they were written, as we just reflect again on the coming of Jesus into the world and the difference that makes for everyone. Let's pray together. O Heavenly Father, please help us to focus our hearts and minds on Jesus now, that we might think about the difference he makes when he comes into the world, a world that is in need. a world that is in darkness, a world that is in pain, a world that is in need of a savior. May we see and believe and receive and spread The peace, the joy, the good news that Jesus brings into the world in himself. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. This is one of my favorite Christmas carols and one of my favorite stories of the writing of a Christmas Carol, probably my favorite. of the stories of the writing of a Christmas Carol. We're going to be taking a look at Psalm 29, verses 10 and 11, and we're going to be looking at John 14 and 16. This is the the upper room discourse that Jesus had with his disciples on that last night. before he was betrayed and then uh arrested in prison, put on trial and crucified the next day. So we're actually looking at something from the end of the life of Jesus, but it's what he says in uh the Gospel of John in fourteen and sixteen to his disciples that that came to the heart and mind of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow in eighteen sixty-three as he wrote I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day. This is another sort of Civil War tied in Carroll, like the one we looked at yesterday, O Little Town of Bethlehem, was written right after the Civil War, as Phillips Brooks had been through so much serving during that war and won on sabbatical and found peace. in the the stillness and the quiet of Bethlehem on that beautiful Christmas Eve, eighteen sixty five. So we back up the clock a couple of years to eighteen sixty three in America. uh to Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, one of the great American poets. So we'll come to that story in a minute. But first, Psalm 29 is a psalm that celebrates the power and the majesty of God, the voice of the Lord And how it shakes the cedars and how it shakes the world. And he says at the end of Psalm 29, the Lord sits enthroned over the flood. The Lord sits enthroned. As King forever, may the Lord give strength to his people. May the Lord bless his people with peace. When we go through trials and difficulties, or when we live in a world that's full of sin and and strife, It can be difficult to really believe, like deep in our souls believe, that God is on the throne, that he is enthroned over the flood as king. forever, that the nations are are roaring and they're in an uproar and a turmoil. Life is difficult, but Christ is King. The Lord is King. And that he gives strength and peace to his people, not a strength and peace that pulls us out of the conflict or pulls us away from suffering, but a strength and peace that keeps us In the midst of the conflict, in the flood, because he's enthroned over the flood. He can hold us up in the flood and give us that strength and that peace. that he alone can give. See, lots of people can find strength and peace by running away from their problems, by hiding from their problems, or by pretending that things aren't the way that they are. But Christianity's Christ comes into the world. The incarnation tells us Christ comes into the world. He enters into our true humanity. He suffered. He experienced turmoil, anguish, loss, grief, anxiety. uh struggle, opposition, evil, and yet he overcame. And he is king, and he gives strength and peace to his people. On his last night with his disciples before he was betrayed and put on trial and crucified, Jesus spoke with his disciples in the upper room in Jerusalem, and he said to them, Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. How does the world give Well the world gives with lots of over-promising and under-delivering. They promise us the moon and they give us a plastic toy, right? They overpromise, they underdeliver, and the things that the world gives don't last. Even when they're wonderful and exciting, they're not going to last, and they're not going to truly make a deep eternal change in our lives. But when Jesus says he gives us his peace, not as the world gives, he gives us something that the world can't control, doesn't understand, can't overcome. a peace that guards our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus forever. And then later that same night he says to his disciples, I have said these things to you. that in me you may have peace. Where are we going to find peace? Only in Christ, the Prince of Peace. He says, I've said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart, I have overcome the world. Well, a man who experienced a lot of tribulation in life was Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. He was a great American poet. Uh he lived in New England. He was a strong supporter of the Union cause in the Civil War because he believed in abolishing slavery. He believed that the outcome of the war would bring an end to slavery and that's what he was standing for and standing with. But it cost him. It cost him dearly. In the early part of the war, not really directly connected to the war, but in eighteen sixty one, in the early part of the war, his wife had been in the kitchen and she had caught on fire and she died in a house fire that burnt up the kitchen and burned her And he was in deep grief from that. And then in 1863, his son is severely wounded in battle. His son Charles is severely wounded in battle. He's still mourning the death of his wife from two years before in this house fire. And he's he's nursing his son. back to health through his injuries. And he hears the bells of a nearby church on Christmas Day They used to ring, do like a full peel of the bells, which is like really, really long and really, really complex. They used to do a full peel on Christmas Day. And so he's listening to the to the peeling of the bells, which is going on for a long, long time. And initially it just fills his heart with despair and disillusionment. He's thinking about peace on earth, goodwill to men, which is the message of the angels in the King James Version. He's like, I I just don't feel peace on earth. I don't feel goodwill toward men. There's death, there's destruction, there's there's Lost, their sorrow. But as the bells keep peeling, his thoughts turn. To God, to God reigning over the world, to light triumphing over darkness because Christ came into the darkness as the light of the world. And his poem, and he sits and writes, begins with that despair, but ends with peace. It's beautifully written. One of the best pieces of poetry of any of the Christmas carols. So let's look at that together. I heard the bells on Christmas Day, their old familiar carols play. And wild and sweet the words repeat, Of peace on earth, goodwill to men. I thought how as the day had come, the belfries of all Christendom had rolled along the unbroken song of peace on earth, goodwill. to men. And in despair I bowed my head. There is no peace on earth, I said For hate is strong and mocks the song of peace on earth, good will to men. Then pealed the bells more loud and deep God is not dead, nor doth he sleep. The wrong shall fail, the right prevail. with peace on earth, goodwill to men, Till ringing, singing, on its way, The world revolved from night to day, A voice, a chime, a chant sublime, Of peace on earth, goodwill. So you can just hear this Henry Wadsworth Longfellow just sitting listening to the bells and thinking W what are all these songs of peace and goodwill? There is no such thing. There's no peace on earth. There's hate. There's the mocking of peace. There's the mocking of goodwill. But because God is not dead, nor doth he sleep, because as we read back here in Psalm 29, The Lord sits enthroned over the flood. The Lord sits enthroned as king forever. Because he's not dead, because he's not asleep, the wrong shall fail. The right prevail. When Jesus comes again, there will be a final end to all evil, and a final ushering in of true peace and goodwill forever, and we will be in a world of eternal joy and love and peace. And until then, the good news of the gospel spreads. The world revolves from night to day and and and the voice and the song of the good news of Christmas of the gospel of Jesus Christ goes out to all the nations. A nations that are involved in war, yes, nations where people are killed. Wrongly, yes. World where there is corruption, yes. But a world where God is not dead, nor doth he sleep. Let's pray. Lord God, we thank you that you sit enthroned over the flood, that you sit enthroned as king forever. Help us to love you. To honor you and to follow you. As we're called to represent you and tell your good news to a world in need, may we do so joyfully Expectantly, faithfully, to your glory and honor at all things we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again. As we've had another time of thinking about some great Christmas carols, let's listen together now to this beautiful rendition of I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day. I have the bells on Christmas face. They're old women care of play And wild and sweet the words repeat A peace on earth good will. And in the spare I bow mine, there is no peace on earth I say for his strong. Bells more loud and not ceasing. The wrong shall fail, the right. With people to make