Good morning and welcome to another Advent Devotional as we look at scripture and carols together. I'm Pastor Jason. Van Bemel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Today we come to a beautiful poem from one of the great poets in English language history, Christine Rossetti, In the Bleak Midwinter. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and sending your Son Jesus to us. Thank you that we can think about worship Jesus in a special way every year in this Advent and Christmas season. Be with us we pray today. Teach us from your word and grow us in our love for Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Amen. In the bleak mid-winter was written by Christina Rossetti in 1872 as a poem, and then music was put to it in 1906 by Gustav Holst. Some scripture behind it. Micah 6. 8. God says, He has told you, O man, what is good, and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice and to love kindness. and to walk humbly with your God. And Jesus is the perfect embodiment of this. Just as Jesus is the embodiment of the law, He is the perfect embodiment of God's expectations and requirements for his people. Jesus did justice. Jesus loved kindness. Jesus walked humbly And we see that even at the very beginning with the great act of love of his coming from heaven to earth to be born in a very low condition. Laid in a manger, wrapped in swaddling cloths, born to really poor parents who were basically peasants, and had a nomadic childhood of you know having to flee from uh a a tyrant and go and live in Egypt for a time and then come back and settle in Nazareth, a very, very small town of no importance. You know, this this humility to come. to leave heaven and come to earth it was was for him to establish justice by his life, to earn righteousness for us, to to be kind to us, to show the kindness of God. and throughout his life to walk humbly with his father. So Jesus, even in his birth, begins to be the perfect embodiment of Micah 6. 8. Matthew 2. 11 And going into the house they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. They opened their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. This Carol talks about the gifts that the wise men brought, but what can we give, right? So whenever we see the wise men coming and bringing their gifts, their treasures, we're prompted to think, well, what can I give to honor Christ? in his coming into the world. And ultimately, what we can all give him, no matter how rich or poor we are, what he wants most is our hearts. Yes, treasure, yes, time, yes, devotion, yes, worship. But it has to be from the heart if it's going to be anything that God wants to receive. And then we have this uh verse from 1 Kings 8. 27. But will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you, how much less this house that I have built There's a line in the bleak midwinter where Christina Rosetti writes, Our God, heaven cannot hold him, nor earth sustain. And that's this is a direct quote from this particular verse. And and the relevance that has for us is that, you know, Christ's condescension is amazing because Even Solomon, in the great glorious splendor of the temple that he built, knew that God wasn't actually going to live in that temple. Of course, God is infinite and eternal. and omnipotent and omnipresent. You know, he's heaven cannot hold him. The highest heaven cannot contain him. And yet God the Son, the second person of the Trinity, decided to humble himself and take on a true human nature and come into the world as a tiny baby and live as a man. And that's just, it's astounding the condescension of God to come to us. And that should move us to a deeper love and appreciation and gratitude and worship for Him doing that for us. Well, In the Bleak Midwinter was written in 1872. This is a little excerpt from something I found online written by Karen Swallow Pryor telling the story behind the Carol. Choirmasters consider it the world's greatest Christmas carol. It has been recorded by musicians ranging from the choir of King's College to Annie Lennox and James Taylor. It was originally titled A Christmas Carol, but the poem we know as In the Bleak Midwinter was written by Christina Rossetti in 1872, first published in the American journal Scribner's Monthly. It wasn't set to music until 1906, twelve years after Rossetti's death. when it appeared in the English hymnals. So Christina Rossetti herself never sang this as a song that we know of. It was never sung as a Christmas carol during her lifetime. It was only twelve years after she died that it was set to music, uh, to the tune that we know it. Uh sometimes with some of these Christmas carols, like the original author would have it to one tune. And then it would be changed and the tune would be changed as well. That's true of Hark the Herald Angels Sing as well as several others. Um Christina Rossetti has been described by some critics as a nun of art. She was never married. And she was devoted to these two seemingly opposite forces that were deep Christian conviction and a rich artistic sensibility. And we can see both of these come together. in the bleak midwinter. So she's a good example of someone who's able to serve God with poetic gifts, with art. And sometimes we think, oh, art and poetry, that's sort of over here, and devotion to God is over here. But she really brings them together quite beautifully in her poetry. So, some of this imagery we know is not historically accurate, of course. It probably wasn't snowing uh in Bethlehem in Israel when Jesus was born. But it's still beautiful poetry and it still makes us think about Christ in profound ways. In the bleak midwinter Frosty wind made moan, Earth stood hard as iron, water like a stone. Snow had fallen, snow on snow Snow on snow, in the bleak midwinter long ago. Our God, heaven cannot hold him, nor earth sustain. Heaven and earth shall flee away when he comes to rain In the bleak midwinter, a stable place sufficed. The Lord God Almighty, Jesus Christ. Enough for him whom cherubim worship night and day, a breast full of milk and a manger full of hay Enough for him whom angels fall down before, the ox and ass and camel which adore Angels and archangels may have gathered there. Cherubim and Seraphim thronged the air, but only his mother, in her maiden bliss, worshipped the beloved with A kiss. What can I give him? Poor as I am. If I were a shepherd, I would bring a lamb. If I were a wise man, I would do my part. Yet what I can, I give him. Give my heart. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, that's what you ask from us, that we would give you our heart, that you would be the Lord of our lives, that you would be the central passion of our lives. That we would belong to you. And there's great freedom in that. There's great joy in that. There's great life in that. So have our hearts and have our lives this Advent and Christmas season and throughout the coming new year, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Well, let's listen now together to In the Bleak Midwinter. But no, I think it's not a whole lot of the Okay. Y cuando podemos