Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Memel from Fort. Presbyterian Church. It is so good to be with you here for our third devotional and our third week as we're working our way from guilt through grace to gratitude. using this wonderful almost 500-year-old catechism, which is a set of questions and answers. In this case it's 129 questions and answers that walk us through the gospel, through our understanding of the gospel and the Christian life from Scripture, but just organized in a series of questions and answers. It's a very powerful teaching tool developed during the Reformation for teaching the people to find gospel comfort. by knowing that we belong body and soul in life and in death to our faithful Savior Jesus Christ. And we learn that to have that comfort, there's three things we need to know. And that is our guilt. God's grace and our gratitude in response to God's grace. So let's pray and ask God's help as we get into question seven of the Heidelberg Catechism today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God. Thank you so much for saving us from our guilt through the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ to the glory of your name. Help us to live in gratitude and in gospel comfort for what you have done for us in Jesus our Savior. We pray this in His name. Amen. Alright, so we are on question seven, but first we're going to review question six. Did God then create man so wicked and perverse? So this is dealing with our guilt. Where does our guilt come from? Are we created guilty? Are we created broken by God? Did God do this to us? And the answer is no. On the contrary, God created man good and in his image, that is, in true righteousness and holiness. so that he might rightly know God his Creator, heartily love him and live with him in eternal blessedness to praise and glorify him. This is the original creation of human beings. And we looked at this last time on Wednesday. as we looked at question six. So we were created good and in the image of God. Well then what went wrong? Is the next question. From where then did man's depraved nature come? What went wrong? How did things go pear-shaped or go sideways? And the answer is, from the fall and disobedience of our first parents, Adam and Eve, in paradise, for there our nature became so corrupt. that we are all conceived and born in sin. By one man's sin, Adam and Eve. But Adam is the representative man, Adam as the head of humanity, Adam is the one who was created not only first, but created to represent all of us. as the father of all the generations of humanity, he was put on test and he failed. Now this isn't just an idea that comes from Zacharias Orsinus, the principal author of the Heidelberg Catechism, or that just comes out of Reformation theology It is a very biblical idea, and we see this in particular explicitly in Romans 5. 12 and then verses 8 through 19. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned, Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. This is the clear teaching of Scripture. It is Adam's sin. In Adam's sin, all men sinned because he was our representative. He was our head. He was standing in our place. Let's go and look at what he did, and we'll see that he's actually a pretty fair representative for humanity because this is the way people are. Let's see what Adam did in the Garden of Eden in Genesis 3, verses 1-7. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the tree in the garden. But God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the middle of the garden, neither shall you touch it lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You shall not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves loincloths Adam and Eve were created by God in his image and good. But they were given an opportunity. They were given free will. They could choose. They weren't coerced. They could choose to trust God, their Heavenly Father, and His Word. And his restriction, which was a loving restriction, or they could choose to believe the word of a serpent. What led them to believe the word of a serpent? Well, we're actually told what the consideration was in verse 6. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes. And the tree was desired to make one wise. Three things. She took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate Now Adam is not exercising his leadership role very well as the one who's to be keeping and managing the garden. He was given that task by God himself. He should have driven the serpent out. He should have commanded him to stop talking to his wife. He should have banished him as soon as the serpent said, did God actually say? Those words right there are poisonous words, and Adam should have rebuked the serpent and banished him from the garden forever. But he didn't And so Eve and Adam with her considered what Satan was saying, and they saw three things. The tree is good for food. That appeals to the lust of the flesh, the appetite of hunger. That is a delight to the eyes. That appeals to the lust of the eyes. Here's something I'd like to have for myself. And then its desire to make one wise. That appeals to the pride of life. I want to have my eyes opened. I want to be like God. That's human nature now. From that first fall, being led in that way, that is the pattern of human nature. First John 2 tells us that that's the way the world is. Everything that's in the world is the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, and they don't come from the Father, but they come from the world. Therefore Adam and Eve are good representatives, fair representatives of humanity, because they are led astray by doubt, by lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, and pride of life. Because they did that, all people are corrupt. Psalm 14, verses 2 and 3 says, The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is none who does good, not even one. It's a sobering assessment, and it's repeated in Romans 3 by the Apostle Paul as a universal statement again of the way that all people are. All people are this way. And we're this way because our first father, Adam, sinned, and he passed that corrupted human nature down to us. But we also would have chosen the same thing had we been in his place. And we need to accept this. We need to accept the truth that we are corrupt by nature. We don't do any good. That we are those who don't understand and that we don't actually seek after God. Why do we need to understand that? Because if we take a different view, If we think that we're born basically good, or that we're born morally neutral, or that we're innocent, and then we're corrupted by the world, you can see a way of Theoretically, people could save themselves. Because if you're born basically good and you're corrupted by eyeside influences, or you're born neutral, or you're born innocent, whatever words you want to use, you could conceivably think of creating an environment of just love and truth and such where that child would grow up to be good. But that's not true. In Psalm 51, David says, surely I was sinful from birth, sinful from the time my mother conceived me. We are all corrupt by nature. It was Adam's sin, as Romans 5 says, through one man Sin came into the world, and death through sin. Through one man's trespass, condemnation came to all men by nature from birth. We are not good. We are so corrupt that we are all conceived and born in sin, as Question 7 says, and we need to believe that so that we're ready to accept the good news that's here in Romans 5. I preached on Romans 5 a few weeks ago at Forest Hill, and when I did I called the sermon gloriously unfair because some people want to say, well it's unfair that if Adam sinned it should affect me. I've already said, I think it's actually very fair because we would have done the same thing if we were in his place. Adam was a typical human. He was a fair representation of humanity because he did what everybody would have done in his place. Jesus, however, is the new Adam, the second Adam, our new representative, and his one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all who believe in him The many who trust in him will be made righteous through his obedience. That's gloriously unfair. Because we get the obedience of someone who did far better than anyone else in human history could ever even possibly think of doing. He obeyed perfectly and was completely without sin. And we get that given to us. Because Jesus was willing to give it to us. But in order to be ready to receive that gift, we have to accept that we don't have the righteousness of our own. You see, Jesus said Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be satisfied. You hunger and thirst for that which you know you don't have. If you think you have your own righteousness, you're not hungering and thirsting for it. You're self-satisfied. And we we all know people Who are self-righteous, self-satisfied in their own estimation of their own righteousness. They don't hunger and thirst for righteousness, and they will not be satisfied. And so the catechism has us beginning in guilt, so that we can acknowledge That we have become so corrupt that we are conceived and born in sin, so that we will look for the rescuer, we will look for the redeemer, we will look for the grace of God in Jesus Christ, who alone is our perfect righteousness Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the gift of your Son, Jesus Christ, our Savior. Thank you for bringing us from death to life through faith in Christ. through his obedience in our place. We are so thankful for the grace of the gospel Help us to live in gratitude for all that you've done for us in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again. And as always, we're going to respond to the truth of God's word with worship today. We're going to be singing Rock of Ages Clef for me. I can let me let me hide my love. Let the Lord around the blood from now on the story be a man of shore. They promise that make me joy. Not the way of my hand can prepare man to my new no Should my teeth forever go for me to go? Nothing in God has that way. Simply chill the cross like clean With that clothes like contract With a road by contract For that bounce. Now I cry. Wash the baby or I die. What we're talking about. We have to work now We all my church grow Like our baby cloud Rock of angels clap for me. Let me hide myself me, let the law and blood from my moon inside flow. Be a standard, they come right and make me show