Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior, Betterheim, Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our tenth week together in the Gospels, and we're now in Matthew chapter 20. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for another week that we can spend together in your word. Please write this word on our hearts. Please show us Jesus. Please help us to know you, love you, and follow you better. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew chapter 20, verses 1 to 19, we're asking this question: Is God unfair? For the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. After agreeing with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard And going about the third hour he saw others standing idle in the marketplace, and to them he said, You go into the vineyard too, and whatever is right I will give you. So they went Going out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour he did the same. And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing, and he said to them, Why do you stand here idle all day? They said to him, Because no one has hired us. He said to them, You go into the vineyard too. And when evening came the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last, up to the first. And when those hired about the eleventh hour came, they each received a denarius Now when those hired first came, they thought they would receive more, but each of them also received a denarius. And on receiving it they grumbled at the master of the house, saying, These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat. But he replied to one of them, Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you agree with me for a denarius? Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to the last worker as I give to you. Am I not allowed to do what I choose with my possessions, with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge my generosity? So the last will be first, and the first last. And as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them, See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and will deliver him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified, and he will be raised on the third day. Well, if you have children, you've probably heard the words, that's not fair. If you're human, you've probably thought them yourself and maybe said them out loud in frustration even as an adult. We have a strong innate sense of justice. And in a fallen world, it's not hard to have our sense of fairness badly offended. Of course, the fact that we're so quick to cry unfair when we're being cheated reveals the fallen nature of our own hearts. But it doesn't It just doesn't make any sense to demand fairness from God in the things of his kingdom. His salvation, by definition is from grace. And grace is not fair. It is gloriously, wondrously unfair. That's what this parable is meant to illustrate. The workers who worked all day and bore the heat of the day and the bulk of the work thought they had been mistreated because they had only been paid a denarius. In reality, they received exactly what was promised to them No one had been cheated. The owner of the house didn't have to hire them. He didn't have to give them the work, but he chose to do so. What these complaining workers missed was this. They had no special entitlement to be hired at the beginning of the day. The fact that they were hired in the morning, while the other men stood around and waited only to be hired later, said nothing special about them. Their early hire was a kindness, and their pay was fair and as promised. Some people have been Christians for as long as they can remember. Having come to the faith in Christ at a very early age, they have worshipped God and served Jesus in his kingdom their whole lives. Others don't come to faith in Christ until later in life, but both receive salvation full and free. If I serve the Lord for decades and someone comes to Jesus on his deathbed, why should he get to heaven just as surely as I do? Because salvation is a free gift of grace. I'm not owed anything. And the fact that I came to know Jesus at an early age is a blessing and not anything that I deserved. If I insist on fairness with God, well, we may just get what we deserve I'm so glad I don't. I deserve eternal condemnation for my crimes against a holy God who loved me enough to give his son for me. That he would spare me and punish him instead is indeed gloriously unfair. And for that I praise God. Just one other brief note, some people who believe in kind of a socialist Jesus see this parable as teaching a form of socialism, that no matter how much work you do or what kind of work you do, everybody should be paid the same amount of money. But Jesus is not talking about that. It's a parable of the kingdom. He's making a point about God's grace and salvation, not about labor markets and economics. Psalm forty seven. To the choirmaster, a psalm of the sons of Korah. Clap your hands, all people Shout to God with loud songs of joy, for the Lord the Most High is to be feared, a great king over all the earth He subdued peoples under us and nations under our feet. He chose our heritage for us, the pride of Jacob, whom he loves. God has gone up with a shout. The Lord, with the sound of a trumpet, sing praises to God, sing praises, sing praises to our king, sing praises, for God is the King of all the earth Sing praises with a psalm. God reigns over the nations. God sits on his holy throne. The princes of the people gather as the people of the God of Abraham, for the shields of the Lord belong to God. He is highly exalted. Let's pray. O Lord, you are highly exalted. You sit on the throne as the supreme king over all the earth. You are king over America. You are king over our lives. You're King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the supreme majesty of the universe. So we don't deserve anything from you. You don't owe us anything. You made everything. You gave us life. You keep us alive. We deserve condemnation because we've rebelled against you. We can't put you in our debt so that you would owe us something. Because you've made promises to us, gracious promises in Jesus, and you give us salvation full and free. May we be thankful Never grumbling, may we be worshipful. May we stand in awe that the God who made us, the God who is holy, the God who rules over all things, should choose to save us and choose to reward us even for our service in your kingdom. Thank you for such grace. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again for another day of walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you, and I hope you can join me again tomorrow. As always, have a blessed day in the Lord serving. In his kingdom.