Good morning, good morning, good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know Our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Week 11. It's Holy Week 2025 as these are being released for the first time and we are in the Gospel of Matthew looking at some things that Jesus taught. during Holy Week. And today we're in Matthew 24, verses 3 to 28. We're going to be asking this question, will Jesus really come again? When? And how will we know? I guess that's three questions in one. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Father, thank you for your promises. Thank you for your son, our Savior. Thank you that he is coming again as the reigning King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Help us to understand and be ready as you teach us from your word today in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 24, verses 3 to 28. As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately saying, Tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? And Jesus answered them, See that no one leads you astray, for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and they will lead many astray And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars, see that you are not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. All of these are but the beginning of the birth pains. Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another, and many false prophets will arise and lead many astray, and because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations. And then the end will come. So, when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel standing in the holy place, let the reader understand Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let the one who is on the housetop not go down to take what is his house, what is in his house. And let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak. And alas, for women who are pregnant, and for those who are nursing infants in those days, pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath, for then there will be great tribulation. such as has not been since the beginning of the world until now, no and never will be. And if those days had not been cut short, no human being would have been saved. But for the sake of the elect, those days will be cut short. Then if anyone says to you, Look, here is the Christ, or there he is, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders. So as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. See, I have told you beforehand. So, if they say to you, Look, he is in the wilderness, do not go out. If they say, Look, he is in the inner rooms, do not believe it. For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man, wherever the corpse is. There the vultures will gather. Jesus promised his disciples that he would come again and bring the end of this age, to judge the living and the dead, to gather his own to himself forever, to bring a final end to all evil sin and suffering. But will he? When? And how will we know when he does? Lots of people have written lots of books, they've made predictions, they've made money off the topic, but what did Jesus himself say? Well, first, Jesus said that the gospel would be first proclaimed throughout all the whole world as a testimony to all ethnic groups, all nations. This is the single condition or timeline that Jesus ever gave us related to his second coming. He said that the gospel had to be proclaimed worldwide to every people group, every ethnic group While we still have hundreds and hundreds of unreached people groups who have not heard of the gospel, the interest of every Christian who wants to see Jesus face to face is clear. Advance the gospel to those who have never heard. Make sure the testimony of Jesus reaches to the ends of the earth. Unfortunately, the church is very, very little engaged in this task. Most of the money the church spends is on self-care. Entertaining ourselves, amusing ourselves, building up ourselves, caring for ourselves. A little bit goes into reaching our neighbors and our nation. A little bit more goes into foreign missions and of the money that goes into foreign missions, only a very small percentage of that goes into making sure that the unreached tribes are reached So that's the first thing and the only condition Jesus gives. But the second thing we can learn from this is that Jesus told us not to be alarmed. We see this in verse 6. False prophets, doomsday predictors, even false Christs have all arisen, just as Jesus predicted. None of them has surprised God or altered God's plan. If we belong to Jesus, we are safe and secure, and we have no reason to fear anything or anyone. Third, Jesus said that things would get worse for Christians before the end. The followers of Jesus have always faced persecution and opposition in this world. Jesus said it would only intensify before the end. This is not a sign that God has lost control. but that everything is happening according to plan. God's people are always safe in his hands. Even if we are mocked, ridiculed, demonized, violently persecuted, killed, we are always safe in his hands Fourth, Jesus said the whole world will know when he comes again. The second coming of Jesus will not be a secret So don't believe anyone who says otherwise. The whole world will see him, and every knee will bow before him when he comes again. And fifth, as Christians, our call is clear. Keep trusting in Jesus and endure to the end. We cannot let the world shake our confidence or disturb our peace, which is secure in Christ. No matter how lonely or how difficult it may become, we must hold on to Jesus knowing that he is always holding on to us. Amen? Let's go to Psalm 55. To the choir master with stringed instruments, a maskell of David. Give ear to my prayer, O God, and hide not yourself from my plea for mercy. Attend to me and answer me. I am restless in my complaint and I moan because of the noise of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked, for they drop trouble upon me, and in anger they bear a grudge against me. My heart is in anguish within me. The terrors of death have fallen upon me. Fear and trembling come upon me, and horror overwhelms me. And I say, oh, that I had wings like a dove, I would fly away and be at rest. Yes, I would wander far away, I would lodge in the wilderness, I would hurry to find a shelter from the raging wind and tempest. Destroy, O Lord, divide their tongues. For I see violence and strife in the city. Day and night they go around it on its walls, and iniquity and trouble are within it Ruin is in its midst. Oppression and fraud do not depart from its marketplace. For it is not an enemy who taunts me, then I could bear it. It is not an adversary who deals insolently with me, then I could hide from him, but it is you A man, my equal, my companion, my familiar friend. We used to take sweet counsel together within God's house. We walked in the throng. Let death steal over them. Let them go down to Sheol alive, for evil is in their dwelling place and in their heart. But I call to God, and the Lord will save me, evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan, and he hears my voice, he redeems my soul in safety. From the battle that I wage, for many are arrayed against me. God will give ear and humble them. He who is enthroned from of old, because they do not change and do not fear God My companion stretched out his hand against his friends. He violated his covenant. His speech was smooth as butter, yet war was in his heart. His words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords. Cast your burden on the Lord, and he will sustain you. He will never permit the righteous to be moved. But you, O God, will cast them down into the pit of destruction. Men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days. But I will trust in you in you. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, when we live in a fallen world, we do deal with the reality that sometimes, sometimes close companions in fellowship We'll betray you and we'll betray your church and we'll betray the faith and then we'll go out in the world and cause great harm. We have seen These Christian celebrities who have done this so-called deconstruction, which is apostasy, they have they have abandoned the faith And they mock and they ridicule the Christianity which they once espoused. They are traitors to your kingdom, to your kingship. And they often cause great harm to your people. Those of us who've walked with you for any period of time, we have experienced being lied about. being slandered, having people engaged in backbiting and ridicule. But we need to trust you. We need to trust you, walk by faith in you, not be shaken by any of these things. Help us to stand confidently, not confident in ourselves. but confident in you, knowing that you are the refuge we need, you are the strength we need, you are the deliverance we need. So we trust you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope you can join me tomorrow, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.