Good morning, good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you could join me here for our 751st day together in God's Word. And we're here in Isaiah 56. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the blessing of knowing you and being called to be your children and being called to study your word, not just so that we can grow in academic knowledge of a book, but because we are here to grow in our in our knowledge of you. and your ways. So reveal yourself to us through your word, by your spirit working in our hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah 56. Thus says the Lord, Keep justice and do righteousness, for soon my salvation will come, and my righteousness be revealed Blessed is the man who does this, and the Son of Man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath not profaning it, who keeps his hand from doing evil. Let the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, Sorry, let not important word not there, I forgot to read. Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from his people. And let not the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree. For thus says the Lord, to the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths who choose the things that please me, and hold fast my covenant, I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a name better than sons and daughters I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. And the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord to minister to him, to love the name of the Lord and to be his servants, every one who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it and holds fast my covenant, these I will bring to my holy mountain, and will make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar, for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. The Lord God, who gathers the outcast of Israel, declares, I will gather yet others besides those already gathered All you beasts of the field, come to devour. All you beasts in the forest, his watchmen are blind They are all without knowledge. They are all silent dogs. They cannot bark, dreaming, lying down, loving to slumber. The dogs have a mighty appetite. They never have enough. But they are shepherds who have no understanding. They have all turned to their own way, each to his own gain. One and all. Come, they say. Let me get wine, let us feel ourselves a strong drink, and to-morrow will be like this day, great beyond measure. Isaiah fifty six What we see here in Isaiah 56 is just the stunning contrast between the way the Lord looks at people and things and the way that we human beings tend to look at people and things. We human beings tend to look at people who are in positions of power and wealth and tend to say, wow, they've really achieved something. They've really gotten somewhere. They're really the people that are important We should try to be more like them. We should listen to them. They are the wise ones. They are the good ones. They are the successful ones. And we look at marginalized people. We look at people who are foreigners, who are childless, who are poor, and we say, eh, they're not really all that important. They don't really matter that much. And God says, oh no. Oh no. If you really keep justice and do righteousness, if you really understand the ways of the Lord And you will understand what God values, and that is not what people value. Within Judah and Jerusalem, they would have valued ethnic purity for one thing. And so a foreigner who comes in and who joins himself to the Lord, even making a profession of faith and being circumcised and identifying with people of God. A foreigner who who looks at the attitudes that are surrounding him in the culture might say, Ah, the Lord will surely separate me from his people. I'm not one of them really But God says, no, don't say that. Or a eunuch who has no children might say, like a dry tree. I'm only good to be burned up. I don't serve any purpose here because everybody talked about their children and what their children are doing and how their children and I don't have any of those. And God says, oh no, no, no, no. Listen to me. What's important is that you trust me. What's important is that you obey me. What's important is that you keep Hold fast to the covenant. Keep my Sabbaths. Choose the things that please me. Hold fast to my covenant. Trust me, in other words, trust and obey. And if that's you, then you're going to be more important. Have a monument and a name better than sons and daughters. I'm going to give you an everlasting name. That will never be cut off. You don't need to worry about what you're going to pass on to your descendants because you yourself are going to have an everlasting name within the house of God. And the foreigners, oh, you will be brought into the holy mountain of God And you will be joyful in the house of prayer. You will be included. Because what? You keep the Sabbath You hold fast the covenant. That's the theme here. You keep the Sabbath, you hold fast the covenant. That means you trust God and you delight in the things that God has said. Said, the outcasts will be gathered in. Now Jesus quoted Isaiah 56, 7, when he drove out the money changers and the animal sellers in the temple He said, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples or for all nations, but you have turned it into a den of robbers. You see, Jesus knew the heart of God. He was the embodiment of the Word of God. And so he came as the very heartbeat of Isaiah 56. made into human flesh, and he saw the foreigners trying to seek the Lord. He saw the foreigners trying to learn about the Lord And they were being crowded out by money changers and animal sellers, by profiteers, by those we talked about yesterday, those who are only in it for what's in it for them, right? The powerful people are so often they're in the whole religion racket for what is in it for them. And got and God drove them out. The Lord Jesus drove them out of the temple. And said, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. And he says, To the outcast of Israel, I have yet others that I will gather. Jesus said in John 10, I'm the good shepherd, I have other sheep that are not of this fold, and I'll gather them in, so there will be one fold and one shepherd. That's us, folks. If you're not Jewish, right, most of us are not Jewish in this virtual gathering of Bible study day by day. We are the ones who are gathered in, others, yet others, we are the yet others gathered in, those of other folds who have come to belong to the God of Israel. And what does he say about the rich and the powerful? The leaders? Well, it's much the same as what Jesus said when he came, right? He overturned their money tables, he drove out their animals, he called them a brood of vipers, he called them whitewashed tombs, blind watchmen, silent dogs that cannot bark. They have a mighty appetite, but their shepherds who have no understanding and have turned away And they're all just seeking their own, each to his own gain, one and all. Look at that, verse 11. Each to his own gain, one and all. What's in it for me? I'm going to look out for me. I'm going to get mine And the world celebrates people who are good at that. But God celebrates people who trust him and obey him. So let's not live for ourselves and our own pleasure. Let's not follow after what the world says counts as being successful. Let's trust the Lord. Let's believe his word, and let's live as if it's true because it is. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for your ways that are better than our ways. Thank you for your son, our Savior, the King. the one who's gathered us in from the outcasts among the nations. Thank you that we can belong to you forever, just as surely a part of your family and your household as Abraham Or David or Isaiah, because we belong to Jesus, and because we've trusted in you by your grace. Keep us trusting in you and following you, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. That is Isaiah 56. Tomorrow we're going to go back to Psalms and pick up Psalm 108. Have a blessed day in the Lord.