Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day number 702, and that brings us to Isaiah 23. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for this day. Thank you for another day in your word. Thank you for another chapter of your word. Thank you for this beautiful book of Isaiah. that we've been able to walk through uh both on Sunday mornings as a church and and during the week now in these devotionals, we pray that your Spirit would guide us and bless us as we walk through your word together. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah twenty three. The Oracle Concerning Tyre. Wail, O ships of Tarshish, for Tyre is laid waste. without house or harbor. From the land of Cyprus it is revealed to them. Be still, O inhabitants of the coast. The merchants of Sidon who cross the sea have filled you. And on many waters your revenue was the grain of Shihor, the harvest of the Nile. You were the merchant of the nations. Be ashamed, O Sidon, for the sea has spoken, the stronghold of the sea, saying, I have neither labored nor given birth, I have neither reared young men, nor brought up young women When the report comes to Egypt, they will be in anguish over the report about Tyre. Cross over to Tarshish. Wail, O inhabitants of the coast. Is this your exultant city, whose origin is from days of old, whose feet carried her to settle far away? Who has purposed this against Tyre, the bestower of crowns, whose merchants were princes, whose traitors were the honor of the earth? The Lord of hosts has purposed it to defile The pompous pride of all glory to dishonor the honored of the earth Cross over your land like the Nile, O daughters of Tarshish. There is no restraint any more. He has stretched out his hand over the sea, he has shaken the kingdoms The Lord has given command concerning Canaan to destroy its strongholds, and he said, You will no more exalt O oppressed virgin daughter of Sidon, arise, cross over to Cyprus, even there you will have no rest. Behold, the land of the Chaldeans. This is the people that was not a Syria destined it for wild beasts. They erected their siege towers, they stripped her palaces bare, they made her a a ruin. Wail, O ships of Tarshish, for your stronghold is laid waste. In that day Tyre will be forgotten for seventy years, like the days of one king At the end of seventy years it will happen to Tyre, as in the song of the prostitute. Take a harp, go about the city, O forgotten prostitute, make sweet melody, sing many songs, that you may be remembered And at the end of seventy years, the Lord will visit Tyre, and she will return to her wages, and will prostitute herself with all the kingdoms of the world on the face of the earth Her merchandise and her wages will be holy to the Lord. It will not be stored or hoarded, but her merchandise will supply abundant food and fine clothing for those who dwell before the Lord. That's Isaiah 23. And it is an oracle about Tyre. Where is Tyre? Well, Tyre is along the Mediterranean Sea coast. to the northwest of Israel. So it's that northern coast. Today it's it is northern Israel along the coast and a little bit north of there. And so Tyre were the Phoenicians. And the Phoenicians were a sea-going people, merchants. They traded on the Mediterranean Sea. And the Phoenicians gave the world one of the most valuable inventions in the history of the world, and that is they invented the phonetic alphabet. So when we talk about a phonetic alphabet and phonics, We're talking about the Phoenicians. It's all named after them. And it's interesting, you why would they invent the phonetic alphabet? Well, because they were dealing with many peoples of many lands who spoke many different languages So they had to train their ears to be able to hear what was being said and be able to represent that in sound, right? And and as you're learning different languages, it's helpful to be able to make a s make a a phonic association between what you're hearing and what you're writing. Before that, uh writing was all symbolic, representative. It was pictogram-based And uh far eastern languages like Chinese and uh Japanese are still that way. They have they have uh symbols, right? They don't have letters the way do we do. They don't have an alphabet. Um but anyway, that's that's Phoenicia and they were wealthy. They were incredibly wealthy. But they weren't wealthy for things that they had grown or things that they had created. They were not necessarily great craftsmen. They were not great farmers. They were the merchants. They were the traders. But because they're the ones who would take grain from the Nile and they would take, you know, um grain from the Sihor and they would take finished goods from, you know, other parts of the world where they where they made silver and gold finished goods and and they would trade them back and forth and olive oil from from Israel and other places like that. They were the ones who made a lot of money. They became very wealthy. And God says He's going to judge them and He's going to humble them. And He tells us exactly why He's going to do it. And the key verse for today is verse 9. The Lord of hosts has purposed it to defile the pompous pride of all glory, to dishonor all the honored of the earth. The Lord humbles those who are puffed up with pride. Now, he's going to do so sovereignly. for a period of time. And then he says he's going to restore them so that they can continue to be the merchant on the waters, which is exactly what happens in history. Of course, this prophecy is fulfilled in history. But what I want us to see here is just a very, very simple truth from verse 9 of Isaiah 23. And I want to connect it to the truth that we were thinking about yesterday in Psalm 104, and that is that God, in his providence, cares for all of creation. So, here's the truth. If you have anything good in your life, it was given to you by God. It was allotted to you in His providence. He was generous to you. He was kind to you. He was gracious to you. And you cannot be puffed up with pride. at what you have accomplished, at what you have achieved, at what greatness you have. That is true of individuals, and that is true of nations. And those who are puffed up with promptest pride, God will humble. And the nations that become great. and that become arrogant and that become complacent and that become self-indulgent and that become increasingly wicked because of their greatness. That ought to sound familiar to you. They're brought low by God. They're humbled in his providential timing for his glorious purposes, so that we will learn that we didn't create ourselves We didn't make ourselves anything. God is the one who in his providence has done it all. Now, as believers, that should do two things for us. It should humble us. It should cause us to remember that everything we have is a gift from God. Remember your theology and live it, right? The other thing it ought to do is cause us to be more reliant on the Lord and not as reliant on the nation that God has placed us in, especially if we see that nation increasing in arrogance and exalting itself against the Lord. Saying we're the wise ones, we're the great ones, we're the powerful ones. Hmm. We need to step back from that and say, I am not going to go along with that. I am not going to sing that song, I'm going to sing praises to the Lord. I'm going to go with God. And you can talk about the greatness and you can talk about the glory of your country and your civilization. And I'm thankful to God. For the blessings that I enjoy here, but I can't go with you in this prideful celebration of self. So humbleness Gratitude, but also a distancing from the puffed up pride, knowing that God, in his timing and for his purposes, will bring down those who puff themselves up And yes, that includes America. Let's pray. Father, thank you for that you are the sovereign Lord, not only over your creation in the natural world. but over kingdoms and nations that rise and fall at your command. You raise up and you cast down, you rearrange the balance of power as you see fit, because you are the Lord. Humble us. Give us grateful hearts. And deepen our dependence on you and not on our culture. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Isaiah 23. Tomorrow we're going to move right into chapter 24. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.