Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel, and I am glad that you are here with us for our 679th day together in God's God's holy word. It is Isaiah eight and the coming Assyrian invasion on tap for us today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is great, and you are great. Greatly to be praised. Your greatness is unsearchable. Your word has riches and depth of wisdom and insight and help for us that we can find nowhere else. You alone have the words of eternal life. Speak them to us now we pray. In Jesus' name Amen. Isaiah chapter 8. Then the Lord said to me, Take a large tablet and write on it in the common characters belonging to Maher Shalal Hashbaz And I will get reliable witnesses, Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jebekiah, and the same thing. She conceived and bore a son. Then the Lord said to me, Call his name Maher Shalal Hashbaz, for before the boy knows how to cry, my father or my mother, the wealth of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria The Lord spoke to me again. Because this people has refused the waters of Shiloh that flow gently, and rejoice over reason, and the son of Ramaliah, therefore, behold, the Lord is bringing up against Them the waters of the river, mighty and many, the king of Assyria and all his glory, and it will rise over all its channels and go over all its banks. And it will sweep on into Judah. It will overflow and pass on, reaching even to the neck, and its outspread wings will fill the breadth of your land, O Emmanuel Be broken, you peoples, and be shattered. Give ear, all you far countries. Strap on your armor and be shattered Shattered, strap on your armor and be shattered. Take counsel together, but it will come to nothing. Speak a word, but it will not stand, for God is with us. For the Lord spoke thus to me, with his strong hand upon me, and warned me not to walk in the way of this people, saying, Do not call conspiracy all that this people calls conspiracy. and do not fear what they fear, nor be in dread. But the Lord of hosts, him you shall honor as holy. Let him be your fear. and let him be your dread and he will become a sanctuary, and a stone of offense, and a rock of stumbling to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and many shall stumble on it. They shall fall and be broken. Shall be snared and taken. Bind up the testimony. Seal the teaching among my disciples. I will wait for the Lord, who is hiding his face from the house of Jacob. And I will hope in him. Behold, I and the children whom the Lord has given me are signs and And portents in Israel from the Lord of hosts who dwells on Mount Zion. And when they say to you, Inquire of the mediums and the necromancers who chirp and mutter, Should not a people inquire of their God. Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living to the teaching and to the testimony? If they will not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn. They will pass through the land greatly distressed and hungry, and when they are hungry they will be enraged and will speak continually. Temptuously against their king and their God, and turn their face upward, and they will look to the earth, but behold distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish, and they will be thrust into thick darkness. That is Isaiah chapter eight. Hmm. Alright, so just a little Bible trivia fact. Maher Shalal Hashbaz. Maher Shalal Hashbaz is uh quick to the spoil, quick to the plunder. It was interesting when we were in Israel earlier this year on our trip, we went to a a gift shop in Bethlehem to buy some olive wood carved uh things and the the owner of the shop, the manager of the shop, his name is actually Maher Shalal Hashbaz, Quick to the Spoil, Quick to the Plunder, which is an interesting name for a merchant um who's I guess in it to make a profit. I guess I can make a whole thing about that. But anyway, he was a very nice man. And uh and uh you know, welcomed us into his shop. So uh Maher Shalhashbab's here is a sign against Judah. That God is going to bring the Assyrians, the very Assyrians, in whom King Ahaz was trusting for help and deliverance. because they were he was so afraid of uh Rezin and the son of Ramaliah, Pikah the son of Remaliah, that is the king of Syria and the king of of Israel. So you gotta understand that the fear of man is a snare. Proverbs tells us that. It is a huge snare and it catches almost Everyone. The fear of man was the fear of Reason, King of Syria, and Pikah son of Remaliah, king of Israel. And the fear of these two rulers, they were so in dread of them. Right? They were they were more in awe of them than they were of God. They were more worshipping them than they were God because they thought there's nothing Nothing that the Lord can do against these men and their armies. And so in the fear of man they reached out for a human solution, they reached out to Assyria. And they brought in Assyria, and God says, I'm gonna let Assyria come in here. You think they're just gonna take out Israel and Syria? Assia, but the Assyrians are gonna come in here, they're gonna flow into your land, over its channels, over its banks, sweep on into Judah, overflow, and pass on, reaching even to the The neck and its outspread wings will fill the breadth of your land, O Israel. So what happened in history is that the Assyrians swept through under Seneca And they plundered all of the towns, all the fortified towns of Judah, and they decimated the population. And the only major thing that was left was Jerusalem. And they almost got to Jerusalem, but God provided miraculous deliverance in one night. One angel of the Lord killed 185,000. Assyrian soldiers to provide this powerful deliverance. But but that's what happened. The Assyrians whom Ahaz and Judah and Jerusalem, whom they were trusting to come and save them came and almost destroyed them. And so what is the lesson? The lesson is simply this. Do not call conspiracy all that this people calls conspiracy. Do not fear what they fear, nor be in dread, but the Lord of hosts Him you shall honor as holy, let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. Look, you need to take Isaiah 8, 12 and thirteen and write it down and put it on your bathroom mirror or put it in your car next to the radio or tuck it someplace where you can look at it for Frequently, because we live in a world. Hear me. We live in a world and in a culture that is driven by fear of Of conspiracies. Do not call conspiracy all that this people calls conspiracy. Do not fear what they fear, nor be in dread, but the Lord of hosts. There may be a legitimate conspiracy I mean, hey, reason King of Syria and Pikah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, they had a not an imaginary Conspiracy. They had a real conspiracy. They were conspiring together and they were going to attack Judah and wipe it off the face of the earth. That was real. But they shouldn't have been afraid of them. Why? Because they should have been afraid of the Lord. They should have said the one thing we can't do is break faith with the Lord. Any human being Any group of human beings, any nation of human beings can be swept away before the Lord in a moment. I remember when the Berlin Wall felled. Remember, if you're old enough, when the Berlin Wall fell, it was shocking. The Soviet Empire sure seemed unopposable. They were mighty, they were powerful, and they were gone in a flash. We should only fear the Lord. And so Isaiah gives this testimony: bind up the testimony, seal the teaching among the disciples, I will wait for the Lord. Who is hiding his face from the house of Jacob, and I will hope in him. There's no earthly help. There's no political campaign. There's no politician running for office. There's no uh political action committee, there's no group of investors, there's nothing, nothing in no one who can undermine the purposes of the Lord. The purposes of the Lord will stand. They will stand And we should not look to the things that the world looks to. In their culture, they were looking to the mediums, the necromancers, those who chirp and mutter. In our culture, maybe we're looking to the talking heads on the cable news shows, or maybe we're looking to the social media sites, whatever it is. Where do we need to look? To the teaching and to the testimony, verse 20 says. To the teaching and to the testimony. If they will not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn. Everybody who has their political theories and their you know, view of what's really happening in the world and I've got the inside scoop and I've got the secret knowledge and I know what really makes the world tick. If it's not the word of God, then God's people have no business listening to it and paying We need to belong to the Lord. Let the Lord be your fear and your dread, and let the word of the Lord be your guidance. That's the simple word for us today. Let the Lord be your fear, and let the word of the Lord be your guidance. Period. Pull stop to the glory of God, who is alone unopposed. and unopposable in this world. Father in heaven, you are great and greatly to be praised and greatly to be feared and dreaded because you are so Sovereign, you are the dread sovereign Lord of the universe, and our God and our Father, worthy of our trust, worthy of our praise. Write your word upon our hearts. May the teaching and the testimony be that which guides and sustains us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Isaiah chapter 8. Thank you so much for joining me for it. Tomorrow I think we're back in the Gospel of Luke, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.