Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 685th day together in the Word of God, and we come now to Isaiah chapter 12. Wonderful chapter. Following a wonderful chapter is a great little section of Isaiah here. Let's read it together. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help first. Father, this is your word. It tells us of your son. We are your people, and we are redeemed by your son to yourself So help us to know your word, to love your word, to cherish your word in our hearts, and to respond to your word by faith and in obedience to the glory of your name. We ask this, Father, simply and directly and in the name of God. of Jesus for your glory in our lives and in your church. Amen. You will say in that day, I will give thanks to you, O Lord, for though you were angry with me, your anger turned away that you might comfort me. Behold, God is my salvation. I will trust and will not be afraid. For the Lord God is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation With joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation, and you will say in that day Give thanks to the Lord. Call upon his name. Make known his deeds among the peoples. Proclaim that he is exalted. His name is exalted. Sing praises to the Lord, for he has done gloriously. Let this be made known in all the earth. Shout and sing for joy, O inhabitant of Zion, for great in your midst is the Holy One of Israel. Isaiah chapter 12. Just six short verses. And it's a wonderful song of salvation. And it comes in the light of the righteous branch of the Lord from chapter 11 coming and doing what he comes and does. And so it's for us. It's for us who's been grafted into that righteous branch, who is now the vine, and we are the branches, and we're grafted into him, and we can sing this, and we can say this, and we can pray this and we can live this. What glorious news! The God of the universe, the Lord God Almighty, He who framed the universe by the Word of His power, He who upholds everything by the Word of His power, He was angry with us because of our sin. We deserved that condemnation, and yet his anger turned away that he might comfort me. How is that possible? How could a just and righteous and holy God who was rightly angry with us, how could his anger turn away that he might comfort us? The answer is in verse 2, because God is my salvation. You see, God becomes man in the person of Jesus, whose name means salvation. To be our salvation. I will trust and not be afraid, for the Lord God is my strength and my song, and He has become my salvation. The only way for us to be saved from the wrath of God is by the salvation of God. There's nothing else strong enough, powerful enough, wonderful enough to deliver us from the deserved and just wrath of God than the glorious free gift of the salvation of God, and that is Jesus Christ. He is the righteous branch. From the stump of Jesse, from his root that bears fruit. The fruit that he bears is that he is our salvation. And we are in him and he is in us. Amen. He is the Savior. How did he do this? Because he lived a life of perfect obedience to fulfill the law of God and fulfill all righteousness in our behavior. He did what we, weakened by sin, could not do. He pleased his father in everything he ever did. And then he went to the cross and he took the wrath that we deserve on him to turn it away from us. It's turned away from us because it was turned on to him. We are comforted because he was afflicted. We are saved because he was condemned. We are justified. Because he was the object of God's wrath that we deserve It is all grace to us, because he took all justice on himself. And then he rose again from the dead? And he gives himself to his church to come and receive the salvation that is in him alone with joy. You will draw water from the wells of salvation. How do we do that? By the Holy Spirit living in us, connecting us to Christ, letting us draw deeply upon the benefits. of his life and his righteousness and his salvation and his forgiveness and his peace and his joy. We draw water from the wells of salvation by the Holy Spirit who lives within us as living water flows and connects us. to King Jesus, our Savior, our salvation. And so we say in that day, we say now, in this day, give thanks to the Lord and call upon his name. Make known his deeds among the peoples. Take this gospel to the nations, that the nations might hear and know that there is salvation, there is peace with God, there is joy in the Holy Spirit, there is life to be had. Proclaim that his name is exalted. Sing praises to the Lord. for he has done gloriously. We have so many songs that we sing. I just happen to have a Trinity hymnal sitting in front of us. Hundreds of songs Right? And and there's other hymnals on my shelves elsewhere. Christians have written thousands of songs over the years to proclaim this truth. That we can sing praises to Him for He has done gloriously. We can sing amazing grace and we can sing to God be the glory and we can sing victory in Jesus, and we can sing, and can it be? And we can sing, glorious things of thee are spoken, Zion, city of our God, because the Lord has done gloriously, because He's done gloriously, we can sing. and not be in sorrow anymore. The curse has been lifted. The blessing flows in Christ. So shout and sing for joy, O inhabitant of Zion, for great in your midst. Do we believe that, church? When we gather together on Sunday morning in Forest Hill, that we can shout and sing for joy, for great in your midst is the Holy One of God. Israel. He's in our midst when we gather together and we can sing praises because he's done gloriously, and we can let it be known in all the earth What a wonderful little chapter. What six powerful verses for us to live and to sing. I think we'll use these for our worship service on Sunday because it's just such a great call. for us to worship our God. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your ways are glorious Your ways are beyond our understanding. We deserve your wrath. You were angry with us, and rightfully so. We have broken your law. We continue to break your law. Oh, and yet you have turned your anger away, that you might comfort us. Christ was afflicted, that we might be comforted And condemned that we might be justified and given eternal life. And he is alive forevermore, and we drink from the benefits He pours out by your Holy Spirit. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Help us to live and walk in the joy of that reality. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, what a refreshing word from the Lord today. I hope that was an encouragement to your heart. It sure was to mine. It's what I needed to hear for sure. God is so good. Isaiah chapter twelve. Tomorrow we're back in the Gospel of Luke, picking up with Luke sixteen. Have a blessed day in the Lord