Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forrest Oak Presbyterian Church. It's day 687. We are in Isaiah chapter 13, and it is good to be together again with you as we spend time in the Word of God. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to his word today. Father in heaven. You've gathered us together as your people through this technology so that we can be in your word. We need your spirit. to be our teacher and guide, to write your word on our hearts, to open our minds, to understand its truth, that we might walk in it as your children. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah chapter thirteen The oracle concerning Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amos saw, on a bare hill raise a signal. Cry aloud to them, wave the hand for them to enter the gates of the nobles. I myself have commanded my consecrated one and have summoned my mighty men to execute my anger, my proudly exalting ones. The sound of a tumult is on the mountains, as of a great multitude, the sound of an uproar of kingdoms, of nations gathering together. The Lord of hosts is mustering a host for battle. They come from a distant land, from the end of the heavens, the Lord, and the weapons of his indignation to destroy the whole land. Wail, for the day of the Lord is near, as destruction from the Almighty it will come. Therefore all hands will be feeble, and every human heart will melt They will be dismayed, pangs and agony will seize them, they will be in anguish like a woman in labor, they will look aghast at one another, their faces will be aflame. Behold The day of the Lord comes, cruel, with wrath and fierce anger, to make the land a desolation and to destroy its sinners from it. for the stars of the heavens and their constellations will not give their light. The sun will be dark at its rising, and the moon will not shed its light. I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity. I will put an end to the pomp of the arrogant, and lay low the pompous pride of the ruthless. I will make people more rare than fine gold, and mankind than the gold of Ophir Therefore I will make the heavens tremble, and the earth will be shaken out of its place at the wrath of the Lord of hosts. in the day of his fierce anger. And like a hunted gazelle, or like sheep with none to gather them, each will turn to his own people, and each will flee to his own land. Whoever is found will be thrust through, and whoever is caught will fall by the sword, their infants will be dashed in pieces before their eyes, their houses will be plundered, and their wives ravished Behold, I am stirring up the meads against them, who have no regard for silver, and do not delight in gold. Their bows will slaughter the young men, they will have no mercy on the fruit of the womb, their eyes will not pity children. And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the splendor and pomp of the Chaldeans, will be like Sodom and Gomorrah when God overthrew them. It will never be inhabited, or lived in, for all generations. No Arab will pitch his tent there No shepherds will make their flocks lie down there, but wild animals will lie down there, and their houses will be full of howling creatures. There ostriches will dwell, and there wild goats will dance. Hyenas will cry in its towers, and jackals in the pleasant places. Its time is close at hand, and its days will not be prolonged. Well, Isaiah thirteen Oftentimes in the Old Testament, in prophetic literature in general, but particularly with the Old Testament prophets, we're given these visions That the Lord gives to his prophets. So this is an oracle, it's a prophetic oracle, probably presented in song, through Isaiah, the son of Amos. It's a vision that he saw. And he's presenting it to the people, and it is, it is whirling and swirling. It is um violent and somewhat chaotic and a little bit confusing because some of what happens in these prophetic visions is that things that are happening in the near future and things that are happening in the more distant future and then things that are happening at the end of all time are kind of brought together in a way that it's hard to sort of tell them apart. And so we call this various things, a collapsed horizon view, like when you look at a range of mountains in the distance, it looks like all of the mountains. are the same distance away from you, and it isn't until you get to that first mountain that you can really see how far away the second and the third are. But the ones off in the distance still look like they're about the same distance away. So there's collapse to rise and effect. There's also like partial fulfillment, then complete fulfillment, but then there's also anticipation There's sort of an anticipatory fulfillment or a typological fulfillment and then a final and ultimate fulfillment. So different terms get used for this, but it's basically this idea that in a lot of these visions Things that are going to happen right away, things that are going to happen sometime generations later And then things that are going to happen at the very end of all time are all kind of brought together. And we know they're all going to happen. The word of the Lord is sure and certain, but God doesn't give us the timing of those things. Now, God has very good reason to not give us the timing. We don't know all of those reasons, but one of them that seems rather obvious, let's say, for example, everyone knew Exactly when Jesus was coming again. You know, make up a date, whatever, July 13th, 2037, right? Whatever. Jesus is coming again on that date Well, would we live better for knowing that? No, we wouldn't. We would just be callous and complacent and um cold because like, oh I know when he's coming. It's not for a while yet. I can do what I want to do, right? Human nature being such, that would not benefit us at all. So what we need to know Is that judgment is coming, and we need to know that we're called to repent and to believe so that we might be reconciled to God and might escape the judgment that's coming. Knowing when it's coming is would be disastrous to us. And so God loves us too much to give us that information. But here we're having a prophecy about Babylon And what's interesting is it seems like the first part of this prophecy is about Babylon Coming to execute God's anger on God's people and the surrounding lands. It seems like that's what it is. But maybe it's not, because it turns out that this this group that's coming is not Babylon itself, but it's the people who are coming against Babylon. And the Medes particularly are named as being the group that's going to come against Babylon. But then in the middle of all of this, in verse 9. We have this prophecy that seems to be best understood as at the end of time. Behold, the day of the Lord comes, cruel with wrath and fierce anger, to make the land a desolation and to destroy its sinners from it, for the stars in the heavens And their constellations will not give their light, the sun will be dark at its rising, and the moon will not shed its light. I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity. I will put an end to the pomp of the arrogant, and lay low the pompous pride of the ruthless. And so, like, this seems to be, especially verse thirteen, I will make the heavens tremble, the earth will be shaken out of its place. at the wrath of the Lord of hosts in the day of his fierce anger. This this seems to be about the very end because whether you're talking about The Babylonians being used to judge Judah, which is going to happen in the future from Isaiah's perspective. or the Medes then coming to judge Babylon, which will happen even in the further future, or whether you're talking about Babylon being completely desolate and uninhabited ever again, which is going to happen even further still in the future. These things are anticipations of what is finally coming for all people in all the earth. Which is that the Lord's going to make a final end of all evil because none of those temporal judgments, judgments that take place within time, none of those put an end to to the pomp of the arrogant or the pompous pride of the ruthless. It's just one ruthless and arrogant people being replaced by another ruthless and arrogant people. So you had the Assyrians, who were actually the dominant power at the time that Isaiah 13 is given. The Assyrians were dominant. They get conquered by the Babylonians, but the Babylonians are pompous and arrogant. So they get overthrown by the Medes and the Persians, but the Medes and the Persians are pompous and arrogant, and so they get overthrown by the Greeks under Alexander the Great, but he's pompous and arrogant, and so then they're going to eventually be overthrown by the Romans. But the Romans are pompous and arrogant. You get You get it? You get my drift? I mean, is there any lack of pompous, arrogant, ruthless rulers throughout human history? No, it's going to continue for century after century after century. And so what are we To think of this. Well, within time, within time, within history, God brings down great and mighty and arrogant nations. as a sign of his justice and his wrath, and as a preview of what he's going to do at the end of time when Jesus comes again. So both what Babylon did to others and what then happens to Babylon, all of this is happening under God's hand as part of God's wrath within history, but more importantly as a preview of the great day of the Lord that's coming at the end of history when all arrogance and all pride will be laid low And that's the word that we need to take to heart. America is the greatest superpower in the world right now. And there are times when we act in the world as an arrogant and ruthless power. But China is on the rise. There are times when China acts very much like an arrogant and ruthless power. Russia is on the move, and they act like an arrogant, ruthless power. But It is not just the great nations. It is not just not just the global superpowers who are arrogant Proud and ruthless. At times it's all of us. All of us have this tendency in our sinful human nature to think too highly of ourselves and to disregard others. In our culture, we have this sort of emerging tribalism. I don't say it's emerging. It's becoming an entrenched tribalism that says we and our group, we are the good ones, we are the righteous ones, we are the ones who will fix things. If only we can take power away from that other group that's standing in our way that's keeping us from doing what we want to do. That is pride. And it can cause us to act in arrogant, brash, crude, ruthless ways We can do it when we're driving on the road and we're angry at other people for existing and daring to drive on our roads and being in our way. It's so easy for us to look down on and to judge others. And that is a call for us to repent. Because the day of the Lord is coming. And we are in Christ Jesus. And we are only righteous before God because we are in Christ Jesus in our flesh, in ourselves. There dwells no good thing. We are no different from anybody else. We are just as lost and sinful as the rest of the world. So we need to make sure that we are humble. That we are grateful and that we are telling the world the good news of Jesus Christ and calling them out of their arrogance and pride. Even as we are laying aside our arrogance and pride and humbly calling the world to repent and believe in Jesus before the end comes, because the end is going to come. That is the one thing that we can be sure of. Did Babylon come in and trample down Judah? Yes. Did the Medes come in and trample down Babylon? Yes. Were the Medes later trampled on by the Greeks? Yes. All of this being fulfilled tells us, without a doubt, The day of the Lord is coming, and it will come and bring a final end to all evil. Will we be ready on that day? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for loving us. Thank you for saving us from ourselves. We are foolish and selfish and arrogant, proud, boastful, vain. But you have had mercy on us You've had mercy on us. You've shown us our sin. You've brought us to our Savior. We thank you for heaven. We thank you that we have salvation in Jesus, the righteous one. We thank you that He's coming again to judge the living and the dead. We pray that we would believe and proclaim the gospel. Until that day when Jesus comes, we pray this in his name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Isaiah 13. Tomorrow, Lord willing, we will be in Isaiah 14. And I look forward to that. Hope you can join me. Have a blessed day in the Lord.