Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 691. And that brings us to Isaiah chapter 16. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that you've gathered us together as your people to be instructed by you through your word You love us, and so you teach us the truth, and you give us grace by your Holy Spirit to walk in your truth. Give us that grace today, we pray. Let us walk in the truth to the glory of your name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Alright, Isaiah chapter sixteen. Send the lamb to the ruler of the land from Selah by way of the desert to the mount of the daughter of Zion Like fleeing birds, like a scattered nest, so are the daughters of Moab at the fords of the Arnon. Give counsel Grant justice. Make your shade like night at the height of noon. Shelter the outcasts. Do not reveal the fugitive. Let the outcasts of Moab sojourn among you, be a shelter to them from the destroyer. When the oppressor is no more, and destruction has ceased, and he who tramples underfoot has vanished from the land, then a throne will be established in steadfast love, and on it will sit in faithfulness, in the tent of David, one who judges and seeks justice, and is swift to do righteousness. We have heard of the pride of Moab, how proud he is, of his arrogance, his pride, and his insolence, and his idle boasting, he is not right. Therefore, let Moab wail for Moab. Let everyone wail. Mourn utterly stricken for the raisin cakes of Kirharatheth. For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sidma. The lords of the nations have struck down its branches, which reached to Jazer and strayed to the desert Its shoots spread abroad and passed over the sea. Therefore I weep with the weeping of Jazer for the vine of Sidma. I drench you with my tears, O Heshbon and Elielah For over your summer fruit and your harvest the shout has ceased, and joy and gladness are taken away from the fruitful field And in the vineyards no songs are sung, no cheers are raised, no treader treads out wine in the presses. I have put an end to the shouting. Therefore my inner parts moan like a liar for Moab, and my inmost self for Kir Haraseth. And when Moab presents himself, when he wearies himself on the high place, when he comes to his sanctuary to pray, he will not prevail. This is the word that the Lord spoke concerning Moab in the past, but now the Lord has spoken, saying, In three years, like the years of a hired worker, the glory of Moab will be brought into contempt. in spite of all his great multitude, and those who remain will be very few and feeble. So that's Isaiah sixteen, which following after um Our passage from yesterday following after Isaiah 15, 15 and 16, together present uh God's judgments against Moab. I have a map to share with you because I think I probably should have done this yesterday, but this is just a map of Moab and it shows you that Moab is on the eastern side. of the Dead Sea from Judah. So you can see that if you just look at the map that uh sitting there on the eastern side of the of the Dead Sea. We had reference to Zoar in chapter 15, that the fugitives were fleeing to Zoar Okay. And this is the Brook Zared. There's the Arnon River in the middle part of it. So at the south so just south of the Dead Sea you see Zoar. It's it's just across the border outside of Moab, and it would be fugitives who are fleeing toward Judah. They can't really go around to the north because that's kind of where they're fleeing from. They're fleeing south. They're fleeing across the Arnon River. And then they keep going And they flee across the Zared Brook to Zoar, and then they flee further around the west to where they get to that gray shaded region that you see on the left side of the screen there, and that is Judah. So that's where they're heading. in their flight. But even as they're heading in their flight, they're still in their in their idolatry crying out to their false gods and and they are of people that have been known for their pride. So there are people known for their pride and for their idolatry. And now they are fleeing in terror. Now this is a prophecy, and unlike many prophecies in the Old Testament, here we're given a specific time reference. in that the Lord says in three years he would bring this about. What I find fascinating is that even though these people are proud, And even though they are idolatrous, and even though God is the one who is judging them, right, he tells his people to welcome the outcasts Do not reveal shelter the outcast, verse 3. Do not reveal the fugitive. Let the outcasts of Moab shelter among you, be a shelter to them from the destroyer So this is repeated commands. Shelter the outcast. Do not reveal the fugitive. Let the outcast of Moab surgeon among you. Be a shelter to them from the destroyer. God is judging Moab because Moab is proud and Moab is idolatrous. God is judging them so much so that even after the Assyrians sweep through and devastate the land as they're fleeing in the wilderness, a lion is hunting them down. They stop and they pray. They pray to the gods that they believe in, but they're not heard because those are false gods. And so God is saying to his people, welcome these people, these cursed, proud, idolatrous, stubborn people, welcome them. And then he gives this promise. When the oppressor is no more, and destruction has ceased, and he who tramples underfoot has vanished from the land. Then a throne will be established in steadfast love, and on it will sit in faithfulness in the tent of David, one who judges and seeks justice, and is swift to do righteousness. Now who would that be That's rather obviously a prophecy of the Lord Jesus Christ. So God ties this, he says, you need to welcome these Refugees. You need to welcome these uh the who are fleeing, who are sojourning, right? Even y even if they're fleeing from the judgment of God, they're still they're devastated, they're homeless, they're hopeless. They're destitute. They had been proud. Now they're brought to humility and you welcome them. And then he gives this promise that coming in the future, now is an era of oppressor. of destroyer, of he who tramples underfoot. But coming in the future is an era of one who sits in faithfulness. and a throne established in steadfast love. Now how do we see that being fulfilled? Because we know Jesus came into the world 2,000 years ago We know that he ministered, he demonstrated his power, he demonstrated that he was the Messiah by the miracles that he did, by the teachings that he taught. Ultimately, by his resurrection from the dead, he was declared to be Son of God with power. But we still live in a world where there are oppressors and tramplers, don't we? Since Jesus came, we've seen the Roman Empire continue to trample people underfoot, and we've seen Napoleon and Hitler and Stalin and the communist regimes and so many people who have come and gone and have trampled underfoot So what is this prophecy that one is going to come? Well, I think it's twofold. One is, when Jesus comes and he disciples the nations, He teaches those who are willing to listen to him, those who are willing to follow him. He teaches them how to be people of peace. And he teaches them that war is not something to do just to advance your own glory or advance your own kingdom or advance the own scope of your land. or conquer your neighbor because your neighbor has what you want and you're going to take it from them. So out of that develops what we now call just war theory or the just war tradition. That comes out of Christian theology and Christian scholarship saying, what is a just purpose for war? And it turns out that you need to have a just cause, which means there need to be there needs to be an evil threat. to you and your people coming against you. You need to have exhausted all other means of diplomacy, of peacemaking, peacemaking first And then you need to act in self-defense and you need to act in a targeted way to to punish the evildoer, not to punish the innocent civilian. So you have to have targeted, right? So just cause last resort targeted against the combatants. That is sort of the the core of just war theory that was developed by Christians. And you need to understand that prior to Christianity there was no just war theory. Prior to Christianity there was no idea that You would only go to war under these circumstances and in these cases. People went to war over almost anything. It was an annual tradition. It was just something you did. And if you had power You would think, of course I'm going to use my power to oppress my neighbor, of course I'm going to use my power to enslave and subjugate those around me. That was just the default setting of the selfish human heart. So That is part of what Jesus does in his reign now. But when Jesus comes again, when he comes to rule and to reign, he will bring a final end to all evil and oppression. When he comes again, there will be peace forevermore. He will reign as the prince of peace, and people will make war no more. And that's when all anything that was ever used for war, right? They'll beat their swords into plough shares, that scripture So anything that was ever used for war will only ever be used for peace because there will be no war or any more need for war. But in the meantime We do live in a world where there is war and there are refugees from war and there are those who are needing settlement, and it is the call of Christians to welcome them. And that is a big part of what we are supposed to be doing. We are supposed to be saying, yes, you can come, you can settle, we will make a home for you, we will help you, we will be a shelter to you That is a Christian calling, and it's something that I think in America in 2023 we've lost the biblical call of that. urgency, that that emphasis, because that's part of how we testify to the goodness of Christ is by welcoming those, even those who are being struck down by God as a judgment because of their faithlessness. Even those who are idolatrous, even those who are enemies of God's people, if they are fleeing, if they are refugees, if they are destitute. God doesn't willingly or delightfully do these kinds of judgments. He says here in verse 11 of Isaiah 16, Therefore my inner parts moan like a lyre for Moab, and my inmost self for Kir Haresheth What does that mean? It means God's disciplining them, but he doesn't really enjoy it. He doesn't delight in it. He's moaning that they're so idolatrous, that they're so proud, that they're so stubborn, that this is what it has come to It has come to this out of necessity, not because God delights in doing these kinds of things. God is sovereign God rules over all things. And verses like this, though, let us know that even though God is sovereign, God's ruling over all things, very, very clear in Isaiah 15 and 16, God is the one doing this. And yet He's moaning for Moab. He's mourning for the people. And he's telling his people to welcome them. So it's clear evidence that although God reigns in sovereignty over all things, Not everything he orders, not everything he ordains, not everything he does delights him because of the reality of sin in the world. And the reality of human rebellion against God and the reality of human wickedness. God works with those things and God orders those things, and so we can know that his purposes are always being worked out But it doesn't mean that God's sitting up there saying, Oh yes, that's so great. I just love the fact that those people are being slaughtered. Ha ha, isn't that great? No, God is not a, you know, maniacal tyrant who's delighting in these things He's doing them out of necessity for a purpose. He has a good purpose in them, but he also has compassion on the people who are suffering as a result. We should be the same. We should trust in a sovereign God. Whenever we experience hardship, we should say God is in control. He knows what he is doing. But we should have compassion on those who are going through suffering. And we should welcome the stranger. Let's pray. Father, you're good to us. You're far better to us than we deserve. Help us to see your goodness and your compassion. Help us to see the justice and righteousness and steadfast love of King Jesus and how that ought to shape our lives to seek justice and righteousness and steadfast love in all that we do. Help us to live as disciples of King Jesus the Righteous One. Help us to live as salt and light in a world that desperately needs to know who you are. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's Isaiah 16. Tomorrow we're going to jump back to the Gospel of Luke and pick up with Luke 17. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.