Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 682nd day together in the Word of God. We are here in November of year two, approaching year three quickly, and we've come to Isaiah chapter 10, this wonderful book of Isaiah that we're also preaching through on Sunday mornings. At Forest Hill, we come to chapter 10 today, which was preached on last year. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word Which is powerful, living, and active, sharper than any two edged sword. Please penetrate our hearts, our souls, our spirits. In Jesus' name, Amen. Isaiah said, Woe to those who decree iniquitous decrees. And the writers who keep writing oppression, to turn aside the needy from justice, and to rob the poor of my people of their right. that widows may be their spoil, and that they may make the fatherless their prey. What will you do? On the day of punishment, in the ruin that will come from afar, to whom will you flee for help? And where will you leave your wealth? Nothing remains but to crouch among the prisoners, or fall among the slain. For all this his anger has not turned Woe to Assyria, the rod of my anger The staff in their hands is my fury. Against a godless nation I send him, and against the people of my wrath I command him. But he does not so intend, and his heart does not so think think, but it is in his heart to destroy and to cut off nations, not a few. For he says, are not my command Commanders, all kings, is not Kalno like Carkamesh, is not Hamath like Arpad, is not Samaria like Damascus As my hand has reached to the kingdoms of the idols whose carved images were greater than those of Jerusalem and Samaria, shall I not do to Jerusalem? peoples and plunder their treasures. Like a bull I bring those who sit on thrones. I bring down those who sit on thrones. My hand has found like a nest the wealth of the peoples, and as one gathers eggs that have been forsaken, so I have gathered all the earth, and there was none that moved a wing or opened the mouth or chirped. Should the axe boast over him who hews it, or the saw magnify itself against him who wields it, as if a rod Among his stout warriors, and under his glory a burning will be kindled, like the burning of fire. sick man wastes away, the remnant of the trees of his forest will be so few that a child can write them down. In that day, the remnant of Israel and the survivors of the house of Jacob will no more lean on him who Who struck them, but will lean on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, in truth. A remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob To the mighty God. For though your people Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will return. Destruction is decreed Not afraid of the Assyrians when they strike the land with the rod and lift up their staff against you as the Egyptians did. For in a very little while my fury will come And the Lord of hosts will wield against them a whip. Truchmidian, at the rock of Oreb, and his staff will be over the sea, and he will lift it as he did in Egypt. And in that day his burden will depart from your shoulder, and his yoke from your neck, and the yoke will be broken because of the fat. He has come to Aoth. He has passed through Migron. At Mikmash he stores his baggage. They have crossed over the pass. At Giba they lodge for the night. Rema Trembles, Gibeah of Saul has fled. Cry aloud, O daughter of Gallum, give attention, O Lasha, O poor Anathoth Mad Mina is in flight, the inhabitants of Gibon flee for safety. This very day he will halt at Nob. He will shake his fist at the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem, behold the Lord God of hosts will lop the boughs with terrifying power. The great in height will be hewn down, and the lofty will be brought low He will cut down the thickets of the forest with an axe, and Lebanon will fall by the majestic one. That is Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 10. And you know the chapter divisions here are I think a little bit strange because obviously the beginning part of ten is a continuation. of what was here in chapter nine. So what we looked at yesterday with the three things that were bad about the people of God, you remember them? They were Prideful and arrogant, they lacked good leadership, and they were attacking one another. Well, this is a fourth one that also is applying to the people of God. But maybe chapter nine should have been divided earlier, so this should be chapter, who does? The chapter divisions were added later. Just saying that. So this is saying, woe to those who decree iniquitous decrees. and the writers who keep writing oppression to turn aside the needy from justice and rob the poor of my people of their right. So this is talking about God's people and the rulers, the bad rulers, among God's people, what they're doing is they're writing laws. If you decree an iniquitous decree, you're taking that which should be an instrument of justice, a decree, and you're using Using it to promote iniquity. That are supporting horrible iniquity, the death of unborn children, the mutilation of pre adolescent children. Because of some thought that they were born the wrong gender or whatever. As if God makes these mistakes that we then have to fix or then unfix or then refix It's disgusting. And it is iniquity. And it's being written down in law. Whether it comes from the Supreme Court, or it comes from the legislature, or it comes from the people. If it's an iniquitous decree, it's an iniquitous decree. Here, it's the needy who are deprived of justice. It's the poor who are deprived of their right. And of course, unborn children and pre-adolescent children who are confused about their identity, they're among the poorest and the need. Of all people, and their rights and their justice are being deprived. Well, there's other ways that that happens too. when money buys you power and favor. And sometimes rich developers have been able to use their political influence to get poor people's houses declared eminent domain over and they're bought by the government and those people are made homeless and they can't afford to buy anything else and then that whole place is developed into something that profits the rich. That happens too All of this is evil. But you know what's even more evil? When within God's people, within among the church They promote iniquity and injustice, like the prosperity gospel. that says God wants you to be rich and wealthy and just claim it. And oftentimes what's being what that's really being used to do is to make a preacher rich off the backs of the poor who are giving him their last dollar in hopes that they're going to get a blessing from God in material prosperity. But the one who's materially prosperous is the preacher. That's iniquity. Or churches that promote abortion or bless abortion clinics or perform same-sex marriages. evil, just evil, in the name of the Lord. And that's really the problem here is God's people doing evil in the name of The name of the Lord. And for all this his anger is not turned away, his hand is stretched out still. Now he turns his attention to Assyria. And that's the bulk of chapter 10. And there's a lot in here that we're not going to get into. If you want details on this, you can go and look up the sermons that I preached on these passages. I'd be happy to send But basically the Assyrians, they were they were instruments in the hands of the of God, in the hand of God, to exercise God's just wrath against nations that deserved punishment because of their iniquity. So Assyria was an instrument in the hand of God. But they didn't think that way about themselves. They thought it was all about them. And so they said that there's everything is going to be destroyed, right? Um Is not Calno like Carcomish, Haymath like Arpad, Samaria like Damascus. The first one in each of those pairs, Kalno, Haymath, Samaria That's a place among close to or among the people of God. And the other one is a place that's far away from the people people of God and has already been conquered by Assyria. So Kalna will fall just like Karkemish already has, Hamath will fall just like Arpad already has, Samaria will fall just like Damascus already has. the the the gods of jerusalem and samaria right um are are not even as great as these other idols And so they're mocking God is what's happening here. They're mocking God and saying God won't be able to protect and God won't be able to defend them. But what's going to happen if you go down later, there's this um But then they get to Nob, which is near Jerusalem, shaking their fist at the Mount Zion, the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem, but not able to go any further because God says that the Thus far and no farther will you go, you'll stop right there. And why? Because God has promised to preserve a remnant, and also because Assyria has to be humbled because they can't Can't think that they're greater than the God who is wielding them as a tool to discipline his people. This what's the takeaway for us? We're not living in ancient Samaria or Judah We're not facing the Assyrian invaders. Here's the thing. Even great evil, even great worldly powers that commit war and conquer, even things that come into our lives that seem overwhelmingly strong for us. All of these things are under the hand of God. And they are in the hand of God. Assyria was an instrument in God's hand for the discipline of his people. But God's promises were never going to be broken, and God's people were going to be restroid, restored. Destruction is decreed, verse 22. says, overflowing with righteousness. The remnant will be preserved, the church will be built, the people of God will be blessed. And the instrument, once it's done being used, will be set aside. So whatever opposition, wickedness, power, trouble we're facing, we need to know it's under the hand of God. It's in the hand of God. It's being wielded, perhaps, for our discipline, because we have sin that we need to repent of. Arrogance and lawlessness, selfishness. But we need to realize that this is not the ultimate power. Those who hold power in this world are not the ultimate power, God is. And when he's done with them, they will be removed from power and judged, and his people will be preserved. We will be kept by God if we hold fast by faith. Faith. No matter what happens, no matter what we face, it is always under the hand of God, in the hand of God, limited in its duration, and God's purposes will be Prevail. Let's pray. Father, we are your people by grace. We are kept by your power. And we We will stand in Christ Jesus in the day of judgment when the nations and the kingdoms and the powers of this world fall forever. Help us to hold on to that hope and keep that perspective through every day in this life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Isaiah chapter 10. I hope it was a benefit and a blessing to you. And I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.