Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, coming to you from RAU, Reaching Africa's Unreached is northern Uganda, Moya Uganda, and we're here on our seven hundred and forty-fourth day through the Word of God as we go chapter by chapter through The best-selling book in the history of the world, the most wonderful and amazing book ever, because it's the very breathed out word of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, for the truth. For the joy that we get from studying your word, for what it shows us of Christ, your Son, our Savior. We pray that you be with us today, that you would teach us and grow us in Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah 51 Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, you who seek the Lord Look to the rock from which you were hewn, and to the quarry from which you were dug. Look to Abraham, your father, and to Sarah, who bore you. For he was but one when I called him, that I might bless him and multiply him, for the Lord comforts Zion He comforts all her waste places, and makes her wilderness like Eden, her desert like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness will be found in her, thanksgiving and the voice of song. Give attention to me, my people, and give ear to me, my nation, for a law will go out from me and I will set my justice as a light to the peoples. My righteousness draws near, my salvation has gone out, and my arms will judge the peoples. The coastlands wait for me, and for my arm they wait. Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look at the earth beneath, for the heavens vanish like smoke, the earth will wear out like a garment And they who dwell in it will die in like manner. But my salvation will be forever. And my righteousness will never be dismayed. Listen to me, you who know righteousness the people in whose heart is my law. Fear not the reproach of man, nor be dismayed at their revilings, for the moth will eat them up like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool. But my righteousness will be forever, and my salvation to all generations. Awake, awake, put on strength, oh arm of the Lord, awake, as in days of old, the generations of long ago. Was it not? Was it not you who cut Rahab in pieces, who pierced the dragon? Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep? who made the depths of the sea away for the ransomed, for the redeemed to pass over, and the ransomed of the Lord shall return. And shall come to Zion with singing. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads. They shall obtain gladness and joy and sorrow and sighing. shall flee away. I am he who comforts you. Who are you? That you are afraid of man who dies, and the son of man who is made like grass. And have forgotten the Lord your Maker, who stretched out the heavens and laid the foundation of the earth And you fear continually all the day because of the wrath of the oppressor when he sets himself to destroy? And where is the wrath of the oppressor? He who is bowed down shall speedily be released. He shall not die and go down to the pit, neither shall his bread be lacking. I am the Lord your God, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name. And I have put my words in your mouth And covered you in the shadow of my hand, establishing the heavens, and laying the foundations of the earth, and saying to Zion, You are my people. Wake yourself Wake yourself, stand up, O Jerusalem, you who have drunk from the hand of the Lord the cup of his wrath Who have drunk to the dregs, the bowl, the cup of staggering. There is none to guide her among all the sons she has borne. There is none to take her by the hand among all the sons she has brought up. These two things have happened to you. Who will console you? Devastation and destruction, famine and sword, who will comfort you? Your sons have fainted. They lie at the head of every street like an antelope in a net. They are full of the wrath of the Lord, the rebuke of your God. Therefore Hear this, you who are afflicted, who are drunk but not with wine. Thus says your Lord, the Lord Your God, who pleads the cause of his people. Behold, I have taken from your hand the cup of staggering The ball of my wrath you shall drink no more. And I will put it into the hand of your tormentors, who have said to you, bow down that we may pass over And you have made your back like the ground and like the street for them to pass over. Isaiah 51. Just love this section of Isaiah. It's so beautiful. Just the language here is so rich. The imagery is so wonderful. But the truth, the truth that's being communicated is so Deeply encouraging. Do you ever feel alone? Do you ever feel weak? Do you ever look around you and think the whole world has lost its mind? If we look to the Lord and we look to the history of God's dealings with his people, what we will realize is that the Lord has taken few Small, weak people, and has built them up into a mighty worldwide Every tribe and tongue, people and nation, growing to the ends of the earth, kingdom that cannot be shaken under King Jesus. It all started with Abraham and Sarah They were the ones called by the Lord out of Ur, the Chaldeans. Just two people, old people, childless people And yet God, through them, has given more offspring than the stars of the sky, the sand of the sea. billions of believers throughout history, across time, over nations, and that's more to come Because the gospel is growing throughout the world. We need to realize that we are not alone. The enemy wants us to believe that we are alone. The enemy wants us to fear. The enemy wants us to feel like God has abandoned us and there's no hope. But God says: if you will Look to him. Give attention to me, my people. Give ear to me, my nation. God is sending out his justice as a light to the peoples. Again, here's the worldwide focus of the Old Testament. It was never about just giving a light to the nation of Israel. He says, I'm going to set my justice, which is accomplished ultimately through Jesus, the righteous one, who is the king and the judge of all. He sets his righteousness as a light to the peoples. My righteousness draws near. My salvation has gone out, and my arms will judge the peoples. The coastland, that's the far reaches of the earth, wait. They hope for me and for my arm, they wait. And God brings his gospel. He brings his gospel. The heavens and the earth vanish like smoke and wear out like a garment, but God's salvation will be forever because his salvation is Jesus. I've pointed this out to you many times before, but the word salvation in Hebrew is the same word as the name of Jesus Yeshua And so his salvation is Jesus reigns forever. Jesus shall reign where eer the Son doth its successive journeys run. All hail the power of Jesus' name. Crown him with many crowns. He Shall reign forever and ever. Amen. God's righteousness in Jesus is never dismayed. So we need to keep this in mind when we are feeling either overwhelmed by our own sin and shame and inadequacy to know God has secured righteousness for us. God has secured salvation for us. God has removed all of our guilt and our shame. He's covered us with the righteousness of Christ. He's cleansed us by the blood of Jesus. Or when we're feeling like we're just outnumbered in a culture that is increasingly insane in its godlessness. We don't need to turn to other forces within the culture who would sort of fight fire with fire, and if they're going to play dirty, let's play dirty back and let's get down in the dirt with them. No, trust in the Lord. Trust in the Lord. Verses seven and eight, listen to me, you who know my righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law. If you know the righteous standards of God. If you know what God has said, fear not the reproach of man, nor be dismayed at their revilings, for the moth will eat them up like a garment, the worm will eat them up like wool, but my righteousness will be forever, my salvation to all generations Trends and movements have come and gone over the past 2,700 years since these words were first given through the prophet Isaiah and the same God with the same righteous standards and the same way of salvation endures and will be to all generations. Think of how many generations have come and gone from the days of Isaiah to our days. and all the believers that have been there day after day after day after day after day. God is great. We can trust him So he says in verse 12, I, I am he who comforts you. Who are you that you are afraid of man who dies? Of the Son of Man who's made like grass and have forgotten the Lord your Maker, who stretched out the heavens and laid the foundations of the earth And you fear continually all the day because of the wrath of the oppressor. Here's some good practical advice. The next time you're watching A cable news program or you're on Twitter or you're on Facebook or you're on whatever, right? And something comes across that makes you really mad or really afraid or really concerned. Turn it off, close it, put it aside. And worship Jesus. Sing one of those great hymns of the kingship of Jesus. Praise his name. And remember, dust is all the nations of the earth compared to God. Grasshoppers are all the people of the earth compared to God. And so God will deliver all of those who belong to Him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we rejoice in your salvation, secure, eternally, in Jesus our Savior. Help us not to fear man. Or even to doubt and be ashamed because of our own sin. Because Jesus, in his victorious death and resurrection, has both taken away our own sin and defeated all of his and our enemies. Praise be to the Lord Jesus Christ, King of kings and Lord of Lords, the righteous Redeemer. Amen. Well, tomorrow we're going to go on to Isaiah 52. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.