Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day six hundred and eighty-one and we've come to one of my favorite chapters of Scripture, Isaiah chapter I have many favorite chapters of scripture, but I like Isaiah chapter nine. It's a famous scripture that we hear a lot at Christmas time. First though. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we turn to Isaiah 9 today. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for gathering us together as your people to study your Would you write your word on our hearts we pray in Jesus' name? Amen. Isaiah chapter nine But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Nazareth. But in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations, the people who walked in darkness have seen You have multiplied the nation, you have have increased its joy, they rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, for they are glad when they divide the spoil. For the yoke of his burden and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken as on the day is born. To us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father Prince of peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace, there will be no end. On the throne of David and and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness, from this time forth and for evermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. The Lord has sent a word against Jacob, and it will fall on Israel, and all the people will know, Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria. Who say in pride and in arrogance of heart, The bricks have fallen, but we will build with dressed stones. The sycamores have been cut down, but we will put cedars in their place. But the Lord raises the adversaries of reason against him, and stirs up his enemies, the Syrians on the east, and the Phil Philistines on the west devour Israel with open mouth. So the Lord cut off from Israel head and tail, palm branch and reed in one Day the elder and honored man is the head, and the prophet who teaches lies is the tale. An evildoer, and every mouth speaks folly. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still. For wickedness burns like a fire Fire, it consumes briars and thorns, it kindles the thickets of the forest, and they roll upward in a column of smoke. Through the wrath of the Lord of hosts, the land is Is scorched, and the people are like fuel for the fire. No one spares another. And they devour on the left, but are not satisfied. Each devours the flesh of his own arm. Manasseh devours Ephraim. devours Manasseh, together they are against Judah. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still. That is Isaiah chapter 9, which really is two distinctly different chapters, right? There's the first half of the chapter. one through seven which is gloriously positive, a a prophecy of the coming light of Jesus Christ. And then there's the second part of the chapter, which is why in Isaiah's day there was continuous and ongoing judgment from the Lord against the Greek the sin of his people. So let's look at the no more gloom. So sometime in the future, this is talking about sometime in the distant future, there will be no gloom for her who wasn't angry. And we know this is talking about the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. But let's think about how specific this prophecy is. In the former time, he brought into contempt the land of the Land of Zebulun, the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. Zebulan Naphtali, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Nations. This is a very specific and included Galilee. Jesus was born in Nazareth and had his ministry headquarters in Capernaum on the edge of the And when he went all about that area teaching in the synagogues and giving the Sermon on the Mount and healing the sick and casting out This is the first place that the Assyrians took when they came in and sacked Israel. It's the first place, and it was the most deeply paganized and compromised. Place. And so the people who walked in darkness under the darkness of foreign oppression, under the darkness of pagan idolatry, they have seen a great light On those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them light has shown. And so this prophecy, which is the specifically about this area where Jesus came, It also extends to the fact that the ones who were in deepest darkness of pagan idolatry, like my ancestors, Of the far north of Europe, the Vikings and the Scots and the Irish, they were people who were into the worst kinds of human sacrifices. And when the gospel comes, a great light comes. And so that area of the world became a great light of gospel. This is what happens when the gospel comes. When the gospel comes, it doesn't matter how deep and dark the night is. Light of Christ shines. We live in a land of deep darkness right now in America in 2023. We live in a land where paganization and oppression by weak and compromised rulers and idolatrous people, a land of deep darkness. We need the light of Christ. And if the light of Christ shines, it shines brightly. Why does it shine brightly? Because of who Jesus is. Jesus frees us from the oppression of sin. He frees us from death itself. He is the child born to us. He is the Son given to us. The government of the kingdom of God rests upon his shoulders. He is the wonderful counselor whose wisdom never fails. He is the mighty God, whose strength is unopposable. He is the everlasting Father who provides for us. protects us and cares for us. He is the Prince of Peace who alone brings peace to our hearts and lives and eternities. Of the increase of his government and of peace, there will be no end. on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. How could any king fulfill this prophecy? It wasn't about Hezekiah, that's for sure. He died. It's about the Lord Jesus, who even to this day sits on the throne over the kingdom of God, reigning forevermore. And then Verse 8 brings us crashing back to the present reality of Isaiah's day because that is a word for the future when Jesus would come, some seven hundred and twenty or seven hundred What's the scene of Isaiah's day? It is one of arrogance. Assyria has started to come. Assyria has made some raids. Assyria has conquered this land of Zebulun and Naphtali and the Galilee the Gentiles and it and it has torn down much of their and they've said in arrogance. They've said in the arrogance of their heart, the bricks have fallen, we will build with dress stones. Have been cut down, we will put cedars in their place. That's arrogance, that's pride. So they're characterized by pride, and for that God is angry with them. They don't seek the Lord, and they don't have any qualified leadership that is encouraging them to truly seek the Lord. And for that, God is angry with them them still and they attack each other. They they devour one another among the people of God, and for that God is angry with them still. So think about that. Pride, a lack of good godly leadership, and attacking one another within the people That sounds a lot like the church today in America, the American Evangelical Church. We're wealthy and we're proud and we think, well, we're kind of falling on hard times, but we're gonna make a comeback We're gonna be great again. And we think that we are just gonna rise up and claim our place. That's arrogance. There's no good godly leadership within the American Evangelical Church, broadly speaking. There we are blessed to have many faithful pastors and teachers of the Bible. We're blessed to have many good things happening. Christ is still building his church. But a lot of Christians, if you go on social media, they're so busy attacking each other over this or that fairly minor theological difference, and yet not ex Engaging the culture with the gospel. And the refrain in this second half of Isaiah 9 is For all this his anger has not turned away, his hand is stretched out still. The end of twenty-one, we see it at the end of seventeen, and we see it at the end of twelve. After each one of these sections, arrogance and pride, and so for all this his anger is not turned away, his hand is stretched out. So a lack of leadership, a lack of godly wisdom, and so for all this his anger has not turned away, his hand is stretched out still, and consuming one another, um attacking one another for all this, his anger is not turned away, his hand is stretched out still. This is a call for us to repent. It's not a call for us to lose heart, because as I said, Christ is still building his church, but it is a call for us to repent. The light of Christ has come. The light of Christ shines brightly. Our King is on his throne in the heavens, and he is building his church faithfully. But we need To be humbled, we need wise and competent leadership for our churches, and we need to stop attacking and devouring Each other, but focus on proclaiming the gospel into the darkness, shining the light into the darkness. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, make us your faithful People. Help us to rejoice in the light of Christ and help us to shine the light of Christ in humility, in love, and in faithfulness, for you are great. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's Isaiah 9. Tomorrow, on to chapter 10. Hope you can join me then, and I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.