Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you For our 688th day together in God's Word, as we turn to Isaiah chapter 14, let's turn to the Lord in prayer Father, thank you for your word. You're faithful. You're faithful in every line of every page, every chapter. We pray that you would show us your will for us today through your word. Write it on our hearts and prepare us to respond to your word in faith and obedience, that it might bear fruit in our lives That you might be glorified and that we might be changed. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah 14, for the Lord will have compassion on Jacob. and will again choose Israel, and will set them in their own land, and sojourners will join them, and will attach themselves to the house of Jacob, and the peoples will take them. and bring them to their place, and the house of Israel will possess them in the Lord's land as male and female slaves They will take captive those who were their captors, and rule over those who oppressed them. When the Lord has given you rest from your pain and turmoil and the hard service with which you were made to serve, you will take up this taunt against the king of Babylon. How the oppressor has ceased, the insolent fury ceased, the Lord has broken the staff of the wicked, the scepter of rulers, they struck the peoples in wrath with unceasing blows that ruled the nations in anger. With unrelenting persecution, the whole earth is at rest and quiet. They break forth into singing. The cypresses rejoice at you. The cedars of Lebanon saying, Since you were laid low, no woodcutter comes up against us. Sheolbenith is stirred up to meet you when you come. It rouses the shades to greet you. All who were leaders of the earth, it raises from their thrones, all who were kings of the nations. All of them will answer and say to you, You too have become as weak as we. You have become like us. Your pomp is brought down to Sheol. The sound of your harps, maggots are laid as a bed beneath you, and worms are your covers. How you are fallen from heaven, O day star, son of dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low. You said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven Above the stars of God, I will set my throne on high. I will sit on the Mount of Assembly in the far reaches of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will make myself like the Most High. But you are brought down to Sheol, to the far reaches of the pit. Those who see you will stare at you and ponder over you. Is this the man who made the earth tremble? who shook kingdoms, who made the world like a desert and overthrew its cities, and did not let his prisoners go home. All the kings of the nations lie in glory, each in his own tomb But you are cast out, away from your grave, like a loathed branch, clothed with the slain, those pierced by the sword, who go down to the stones of the pit. Like a dead body trampled underfoot. You will not be joined with them in burial, because you have destroyed your land, you have slain your people. May the offspring of evildoers nevermore be named Prepare slaughter for his sons because of the guilt of their fathers, lest they rise and possess the earth and fill the face of the world with cities I will rise against them, declares the Lord of hosts, and will cut off from Babylon name and remnant, descendants, and posterity, declares the Lord. And I will make it a possession of the hedgehog and pools of water, and I will sweep it with the broom of destruction, declares the Lord of hosts. The Lord of hosts has sworn As I have planned, so shall it be, as I have purposed, so shall it stand, that I will break the Assyrians in my land. And on my mountains trample him underfoot, and his yoke shall depart from them, and his burden from their shoulder. This is the purpose that is purposed concerning the whole earth. And this is the hand that is stretched out over all the nations, for the Lord of hosts has purposed, and who will annul it? His hand is stretched out, and who will turn it back? In the year that King Ahaz died, came this oracle. Rejoice not, O Philistia, all of you, that the rod that struck you is broken. For from the serpent's root will come forth an adder, and its fruit will be a flying fiery serpent. And the firstborn of the poor will graze, and the needy will lie down in safety. But I will kill your root with famine, and your remnant it will slay. Wail O Gate, cry out, O city, melt in fear, O Philistia, all of you, for smoke comes out of the north, and there is no straggler in his ranks. What will one answer, the messengers of the nations? The Lord has founded Zion, and in her the afflicted of his people find refuge Amen. That's Isaiah 14. Hmm. Lots of strong words. You can hear, hopefully, the clear emphasis in here that the Lord's purposes will stand. What the Lord, what Yahweh the Almighty, the Lord Most High, what he has decided he will do, he will do and it will stand. And there's no overruling God. So, God's about to bring judgment. God's already been bringing judgment on the northern kingdom of Israel. through the hands of the Assyrians. The northern kingdom of Israel was conquered in 722 BC We have a pretty good date for one of the oracles in this chapter, that oracle concerning Philistia. It comes in the year that King Ahaz died, that's 715 BC. So it's about seven years after northern Israel has already been conquered. Southern Judah has suffered some raids by the Assyrians. The Philistines have also suffered some raids by the Assyrians, but neither one of them have been conquered. But Israel has fallen. And Israel had been dominant over the Philistines. And so that's why they were rejoicing in the downfall of Israel And but but here we have the Lord saying that all of these things are in his hand. The rise and fall of nations, the timing of these judgments, they're all in his hand. And judgment is going to come. It's already come against Israel, and it is going to come against Judah, and it is going to come against the Philistines, in his timing, according to his purposes But after judgment, after the discipline and the correction and the exile comes compassion and restoration. And so Here in verse 1, Israel and Jacob, that's the northern kingdom that's already been taken off into exile and destroyed as a nation. But the Lord's going to have compassion. and will again choose Israel and will again set them in their own land and sojourners will join them and will attach themselves to the house of Jacob. So what happened historically is that the Assyrians deported many of the Israelites and settled foreigners in the land. Well those foreigners when they come into the land, they they ask about the God of the land and they learn a little bit at least about the Lord, and they start to worship him, and then over time some Israelites come back in, and this mixed group in northern Israel becomes known as the Samaritans, after the capital city Samaria. And that's the group that we find in the Gospels, like the woman at the well is a Samaritan and the Good Samaritan parable. So those are those are the people. And God does have compassion on them because when Jesus comes among them They come to salvation in much larger and more substantial numbers than the than the Judahites, the Jewish people of Judah and Jerusalem So God has compassion both to return them to their land, but also even more importantly, to bring Jesus to them. And then here comes Babylon Babylon's not even the dominant world power yet. They will be, but they're not yet. And even before they rise, we saw yesterday in chapter 13, and now here in chapter 14. Even before the king of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar the Great, one of the greatest rulers in the history of the world, even before he is ascendant, even before he's on the scene, even before he takes over. And Babylon becomes the world great power, we have this prophecy from the Lord that says, you will be taken down. And here we have a great theological truth through the downfall of Babylon, and that is when wicked rulers in their arrogant power are i on the ascent or in enthroned, right? The people under them are oppressed. And so when they are cast down, when they are overthrown, the people under them rejoice. This is a sign, really, of whether someone is a good ruler or a wicked ruler Good rulers, when they are on the throne, their people rejoice, and they are blessed, and they are protected, and they are free, and they are safe. And they are well governed. There's justice in the land. And so when good rulers die, the people mourn. The people grieve their loss. But when wicked rulers reign, the people tremble in fear, the people go without, the people are oppressed, and when those good rulers fall, the people rejoice. Now that truth, much like in chapter 13, the truth of the downfall of Babylon becomes a picture. of the end of time day of the Lord, here the truth of the downfall of the King of Babylon becomes a picture of the fall of Satan So there's a lot of confusion about these verses that are on your screen, Isaiah 14, verses uh 12 to 15 or so. Are these about Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, or are they about Satan? And the answer is yes. They are about Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. But he is a type of Satan. Just as we can have people like King David and others who are types of Christ, so we can have people like the King of Babylon, wicked rulers. who are arrogant and proud, and they can be types of Satan because he's trying to ascend to heaven above the stars of God, set his throne on high. That's what Satan tried to do. He wanted to be worshipped instead of God. And so he was cast down. Now ultimately he was not cast all the way down until Jesus came and conquered him in his death and resurrection. And he will not be forever destroyed. In the lake of fire until Jesus comes again. So these verses are, yes, they're about the King of Babylon and his downfall, but the King of Babylon in this case is serving as a type of Christ of not of Christ of of Satan. The king of Babylon is serving as a type of Satan who is going to fall and Because Satan is the oppressive ruler of this world. He is the enslaver of humanity. He is the accuser of the brethren. He is the tyrant. in whose hands are death and destruction. When he is finally removed, when the Lord Jesus comes, there will be great rejoicing Of all of those who have belonged to God, but who have suffered persecution and oppression at the hands of Satan when he is overthrown, the world will rejoice. And the downfall of the king of Babylon is a preview, is a type of that. And we need to remember then what God says, as I have planned, so shall it be, as I have purposed. so shall it stand in verse twenty four and verse twenty seven. For the Lord of hosts has purposed it, and who will annul it, his hand is stretched out, and who will turn it back? And I think this is Our point of application for us today in Isaiah 14. And that is keep your hope firmly grounded in the purposes of God in the second coming of Jesus, in the supreme rule of God, and in the fact that Satan's rule over this world is temporary, and will be brought to a full and final end. That's where we need to keep our hope. And in that day there will be great rejoicing. When Jesus comes again, there will be judgment on all the arrogant, on all the proud So that we saw yesterday, it's a call to us to not be arrogant, to not be proud, but to humble ourselves and seek the Lord and to rejoice in Christ. Here, we see something else that happens when Jesus comes again. Not only the arrogant and proud of the earth destroyed, but Satan himself is destroyed and thrown into the lake of fire forever, and so the earth is freed from its bondage to decay that Satan brought into the world when he deceived Adam and Eve, and in that we will rejoice and we will be set free, and it will be our true liberation And so when it's hard, because it sometimes is hard, as we're waiting for the day of the Lord, we need to rejoice Rejoice through our tears, rejoice through our heavy-heartedness, that the day is coming. The night will be over. The sun will shine forever. Satan will be destroyed. Wait upon the Lord and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Let's pray. Father, thank you that the glory of God is coming in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you that He will make a full and final end of Satan and his host, who deceive the nations, who who oppress and terrify your people. He is a defeated foe. He is a restrained foe. And he will be an eliminated foe when Jesus comes again. Come quickly, Lord Jesus, we pray Amen. That is Isaiah 14. Tomorrow we're going to be in Psalm 103. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.