Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 660 That is the 303rd day of our second year together in the Word of God. And we are in Isaiah chapter 1. The beginning of a new book, a wonderful book. It's a book that I'm currently preaching through on Sunday mornings at Forest Hill. And so as we go through this book in these devotional times, I'm going to try to keep things brief. I know yesterday's in Luke 11 went really, really long, and sorry, sometimes chapters are big and it's hard to get through them quickly. Uh but let's pray and ask the Lord's help with Isaiah 1. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the truth of it. Thank you for the power of it. Thank you for how it shows us your son and our need for your salvation. and guides us in how we should think and live. Guide us by your Holy Spirit today through Isaiah chapter one. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Anyway, if you want an in depth treatment of any of these passages in Isaiah, if you feel like we just sort of breezed over it in these morning devotionals, you're welcome to go and find the sermons uh in Isaiah. Um most of them are available online. Some of them you have to go find the recording of the full worship song. service and kind of work your way through to the to the passage itself. Alright, Isaiah chapter 1. The vision of Isaiah, the son of Amos. which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. Children have I reared and brought up, but they have rebelled against me. The ox knows its owner and the donkey its master's crib, but Israel does not know. My people do not understand. Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity. Offspring of evildoers, children who deal corruptly. They have forsaken the Lord. They have despised the Holy One of Israel. They are utterly estranged. Will you be struck down? Why will you be struck down? Why will you continue to rebel? The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint. From the sole of the foot even to the head there is no soundness in it, but bruises and sores and raw wounds they are not pressed out, or bound up, or softened with oil. Your country lies desolate. Your cities are burned with Fire. In your very presence, foreigners devour your land. It is desolate as overthrown by foreigners. As the daughter and the daughter of Zion is left like a booth in a vineyard, like a lodge in a cucumber field, like a besieged If the Lord of hosts had not left us a few survivors, we should have been like Sodom and become like Like Gomorrah. Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the teaching of our God, you people of Gomorrah. What to mean? Is the multitude of your sacrifices, says the Lord. I have had enough of burnt offerings and rain When you come to appear before me, who has required of you this Trampling of my courts. Bring no more vain offerings. Incense is an abomination to me New moon and Sabbath and the calling of convocations, I cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly. Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates. They have become A burden to me. I am weary of bearing them. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are full of blood. Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean. Remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Learn to do good. Seek justice. Correct oppression. Bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause. Come now. Let us reason together, says the Lord. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. How the unfaithful city has become a Poor she who was full of justice. Righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers. Your silver has become dross, your best Wine mixed with water. Your princes are rebels and companions of thieves. Everyone loves a bribe and runs after gifts. They do not bring justice to the fatherless, and the widow's cause does not come to the them. Therefore the Lord declares, the Lord of hosts, the mighty one of Israel, ah, I will get relief. from my enemies, and avenge myself on my foes. I will turn my hand against you, and will smelt away your dross as with lie, and remove all your alloy, and I will restore your judges as As at the first, and your counselors as at the beginning. Afterward you shall be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city. Deemed by justice, and those in her who repent by righteousness. Rebels and sinners shall be broken together, and those who forsake the Lord shall be consumed. For they shall be ashamed of the oaks that you desired. They shall bloss for the gardens that you have chosen. For you shall be like an oak, whose leaf Withers, and like a garden without water, and the strong shall become tinder, and his work a spark, and both of them shall burn together with none To quench them. That is Isaiah chapter 1, a very sobering and challenging word for God's people. And this is what we need to remember: the audience for Isaiah. Is Judah and Jerusalem. That is, it is the people of God. And so Isaiah is talking to us, God's covenant people. This was some twenty seven hundred years ago, twenty-eight hundred years ago now, but the message is a message for the people of And the message really is very simple and very sobering, and that is you can belong to the people of God. You can hear the Word of God. You can belong to a church, even a faithful church, and be stubborn, rebellious Sinful, selfish, disobedient, idolatrous, fruitless, and faithless. Whole churches can be carried characterized by that. Not just can be, but let's get real, whole churches are characterized by those words. They don't really know God. They don't really understand his word. They are corrupt. They do whatever the world around them tells them to do, or they just imitate the patterns of selfishness and sinfulness in the culture that dominates around them, they neglect To hear and honor God's word, they neglect to do God's will, they are just selfish and thoughtless and worldly and idolatry. And such people will be disciplined by God. Such churches will be disciplined by God. And if they don't repent. They will be cut off and condemned forever. And we've seen it happen. Throughout church history. We see it happening now. There are churches that call themselves Christian churches, and yet they do not believe that the Bible is the Word of God. He was a good man who taught us to love one another, and that's about as far as they're willing to take it. They don't believe in the reality of miracles, they don't believe in the truth. of the resurrection of Jesus. They don't believe that God is just and full of wrath and that he will punish. They don't believe that people are sinful by nature and that they need to be redeemed. There are churches, and I'm telling you, thousands of churches all across America, tens of thousands of churches all over the world that think this way and believe this way And they are very worldly, and they are very corrupt, and they are very unfaithful. But even we Who are in more faithful churches. And I don't mind saying that Forest Dill Church is a more faithful church than a PCUSA church or United Methodist Church or anything. Episcopal Church, USA, or an Evangelical Lutheran Church, because those churches very openly and very publicly defy the Word of God and do not honor Christ. the Lord. They just don't. There may be some individual congregations who do and who try to be a witness, but by and large, those denominations have gone astray. They have So I don't mind saying that Forest Hill Church is a more faithful church than that. We believe in the Word of God, we believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, we preach the gospel, we we want to worship God, honor God. We are sincere in our desire to be a church that honors Christ. And yet even we, in our community, and our hearts and our lives, even me, yes, and you can be worldly and idolatrous. And unfaithful and sinful, and so we need to repent. We need to repent. Because while we can make ourselves sick, Only God can heal us. While we can break ourselves, only God can fix us. So, the Lord of hosts. Is the one who preserves a holy remnant, and the Lord of hosts is the one who cleanses us, who binds us up. He's the one who redeems us. How does he redeem us? Well, we come to him. Verse 18 Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as White as snow, though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land. But if you refuse and rebel, you shall be eaten by the sword. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. We come to God for the forgiveness we need. We come to God for the cleansing and for the healing we need. We are full of sin and idolatry and worldliness. We are broken and we are bruised and battered And the Lord heals us. The Lord heals us. Um Later in verse twenty-seven, he says Zion will be redeemed by righteousness, and those in her who repent by sorry. Zion will be redeemed by justice and those in her who repent by righteousness. That's pointing us to the cross. It's a very small hint, but that that hint is going to be unfolded more clearly throughout the book of Isaiah, the justice and righteousness of God will ultimately be seen in the cross of Jesus Christ, where righteousness will be fulfilled for us, and then the justice against our sins will be taken on the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ in our place. There's no other way to be healed. There's no other way to be whole. But to come to the cross, we have to stop going to the idols. To come to the cross we have to stop going to false Saviors. And that's these these oaks and these gardens in verse 29. Those are pagan places of worship and where pagans went to look for healing. But God has made us a promise that we shall be like an oak that is planted by streams of water, Psalm 1 says in Jeremiah 17 says I think it's 17. But if we don't, if we go to the world's oaks, if we go to the world's gardens, we're gonna be like an oak whose leaf withers. Our oak tree that's right over there, big old, massive old oak tree Tree is dropping all of its leaves right now. And over the next couple of weeks it'll drop approximately 378 billion leaves. Just a rough approximation. On our yard, on our roof, on our backyard, our back steps, and what to deal with that. But that's a picture. Now that oak tree's not dying. That's the the cycle. But imagine an oak tree that doesn't have any water, that is dying, that is drying out. That's the warning for God's people, for us, if we won't come to God for the living water of the Holy Spirit, for the cleansing of the Of the blood of Jesus for the renewal in the Word of God and the worship of God, we need. We need the Lord. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the grace of the gospel. Thank you that you love us enough to tell us the truth. You're not going to lie to us and tell us, oh, we're just fine on our own. You can do it. No, we're broken. We're dirty. We're rotten. We need cleansing. We need healing. We need wholeness. Even those of us who've been born again, who've been bought by the The blood of Christ, even those of us who have been cleansed, we need to come back to you again and again, to repent of our williness, to seek your forgiveness, to seek your renewal. You alone are our hope. So we come to you, ask, renew us, refresh us, restore us, cleanse us again, revive us, that we might glorify you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Isaiah 1. Tomorrow we're going to move on to chapter 2. Hope you can join me. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.