Good morning, good morning, good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian. It is day six hundred and seventy-two, and we have come to Isaiah chapter four. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for Isaiah 4. Thank you for your for this prophecy of the righteous branch of the Lord that we're going to hear today and for all that you're going to teach us through this chapter, make us teachable. Prepare our hearts and minds to understand, listen, receive, believe. Believe and respond in faith and love and obedience we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah chapter four. And seven women shall take hold of one man in that day, saying, We will eat our own bread and wear our own clothes. Only let us be called by your name, take away our reproach. In that day the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the land shall be Shall be the pride and honor of the survivors of Israel, and he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy. Everyone who has been recorded for life in Jerusalem. When the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion and cleansed the bloodstains of Jerusalem from its midst by a spirit of judgment and by By a spirit of burning. Then the Lord will create over the whole site of Mount Zion and over her assemblies a cloud by day, and smoke and the shining of a flaming fire by night, for over all the glory there shall be a canopy, there will be a booth for shade by day, from the heat, and for a refuge, and a shelter from the storm. and rain. Well that's Isaiah 4. Not quite as short as Esther 10, but a pretty short chapter, and it really is focused on We pick up here at the beginning of Isaiah 4 with something that probably really belongs at the end of Isaiah 3. So uh chapter breaks. You know chapter breaks were added later, like hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years. Later, just to make it easier for us to find things in the Bible. Um Isaiah didn't divide his work into chapters and verses. Um this first verse probably belongs to the end of the So we shouldn't grumble or complain. We should just explain accept it and be thankful. And so we have this lack of leadership again, this desperate time when there's such poverty and such lack of leadership. That seven women take hold of one man and say, We will eat our own bread and wear our own clothes, only let us be called by your name. Please take away our reproach. We don't want you want you to provide anything for us but a name. to be nameless, homeless, rejected. And so powerfully, all of a sudden, we have in that day the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious That day, the day of such abject poverty? Yes, in that day. So historically, what Isaiah is immediately prophesying about. is right when Jerusalem is destroyed, 586 BC, Jerusalem's destroyed, the temple is destroyed, everything's in a heap of rubble. There's just a small remnant in the land. Right then and there, in the midst of that horrible judgment, the remnant of God who are faithful are pr are prized and treasured by God. They are loved by God. And yet Isaiah 4 is not really primarily about that immediate 586 BC destruction of Jerusalem. It's really ultimately, this happens a lot in Old Testament. prophecy. There's like an immediate partial fulfillment, and in that fulfillment itself is a type or a foreshadowing or an anticipation of the greater fulfillment that comes in Jesus Jesus in his first coming, in his second coming, in his whole coming, right, in the kingdom of God that he brings. And so the branch of the Lord introduced here in Isaiah 4 is the Lord Jesus Christ. That becomes clearer in Isaiah 11, also mentioned in uh Zechariah, also mentioned in other prophets, and so um the branch of the Lord is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is uh the one So you could go to Z Jeremiah 23 and 33, and Zechariah three and six and Isaiah eleven. So there's like several different places where the branch of the Lord is mentioned. There are in fact, I emphasize this when I preached on this, I don't know if you remember it's a long time ago, but there are six references to the branch of the Lord in the Old Testament prophets. Two in Isaiah, two in Jeremiah, and two in Zechariah. So six references. And then Jesus himself in John 15 says, I am The true vine, right? Which is another expression of this branch of the Lord. I am the true vine, right? And you are the branches, and whoever abides in me, and I am him who bears my truth. That's the seventh, and the seven is the divine completion number. So you have six, an incomplete prophecy in the Old Testament, but the completion of this prophecy in the New Testament. We'll linger a little bit more on the branch when we're in Isaiah 11. eleven uh in a few days. But here we see that God's people God's people who belong to God, who are preserved by God from judgment. judgment, who are cleansed from their sin. How are we cleansed? By a spirit of judgment and a spirit of burning. Ultimately that's a pointing to the cross. Jesus was judged. Jesus was was the one who purges away our sin by his sacrifice. in our place. And then the pouring out of the Holy Spirit. I think verse five on Mount Zion in the upper room. You have the pouring out of the Holy Spirit, which came as a wind and flames of fire, and tongues of fire resting upon them. And so you had wind and you had fire. You had this manifestation. Of the glorious indwelling of the Holy Spirit, who is the gift of every believer. The Holy Spirit, just as the pillar of cloud and fire was with the Israelites in the window. Wilderness, just as a pillar of cloud and fire showed up at the temple when it was dedicated under Solomon, just as it left in Ezekiel's vision It comes back again in the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in every believer. We are the tabernacles of the Lord, the temples of the Lord, and the stones in the living temple. We are the ones whom God dwells in and among Individually, but especially as we're gathered together as the people of God, we are the ones in whom the branch of the Lord bears fruit as being beautiful and glorious. He's the vine, he's the branch that's the vine. You know, the the another image that's used is the you know the trees cut down, the stump is there, there's a shoot that comes forth from the stump of Jesse, that becomes the vine. And then we become the branches. So the branch of the Lord becomes beautiful and glorious through his people who are in the world as the Holy Spirit dwells in us and among us as we gather for worship and as we go out into the world to work and To witness. It's a powerful picture. It's a beautiful picture. It should be an encouraging picture. How is God glorifying Jesus Christ in the world today through you and through me as we abide in the vine, as we get in the vine Gather for worship on the Lord's Day as we are filled with the Holy Spirit, as we go out into the world to work and to witness, as missionaries go forward with the gospel and new churches are planted among new tribes and tongues and peoples. nations, Jesus is glorified, and the branch of the Lord is shown to be beautiful and glorious through the remnant, through the redeemed remnant. That's us. Amen. I hope you're encouraged by that thought. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your love for us. Your love is encouraging. Our Savior is wonderful. Our identity in Christ is astounding. And our call, our mission to be salt and light, ambassadors of Christ, the light of the world, that It's beyond us, but it's not beyond the Holy Spirit who dwells in us. So thank you for the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, shine through us. and bear your fruit through us to a world that desperately needs to see and know the glory, the beautiful, glorious branch of Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Isaiah chapter 4. I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.