Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our six hundred and ninety-third day together in God's Word, and we're back in the wonderful Fifth Gospel of Isaiah. Isaiah 17. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, perfect, and breathed out by you. Apply it to our hearts. Help us to receive it, to treasure it, to respond to it in faith and obedience and love for you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah 17, an oracle concerning Damascus. Behold, Damascus will cease to be a city. and will become a heap of ruins. The cities of Auror are deserted, they will be for flocks, which will lie down, and none will make them afraid. The fortress will disappear from Ephraim And the kingdom from Damascus and the remnant of Syria will be like the glory of the children of Israel, declares the Lord of hosts And in that day the glory of Jacob will be brought low, and the fat of his flesh will grow lean, and it shall be as when the reaper gathers standing grain, and his arm harvests the ears, and as when one Gleans the ears of grain and the valley of Rephaim. Gleanings will be left in it, as when an olive tree is beaten Two or three berries in the top of the highest bough, four or five on the branches of a fruit tree, declares the Lord God of Israel In that day man will look to his maker, and his eyes will look on the Holy One of Israel. He will not look to the altars, the work of his hands, and he will not look on what his own fingers have made, either the asherim or the altars of incense. In that day, their strong cities will be like the deserted places of the wooded height and the hilltops which they deserted because of the children of Israel, and there will be desolation, for you have forgotten the God of your salvation, and have not remembered the rock of your refuge Therefore, though you plant pleasant plants and sow the vine branch of a stranger, though you make them grow on the day with that you plant them, and make them blossom in the morning that you sow Yet the harvest will flee away, in a day of grief and incurable pain. Ah, the thunder of many peoples. They thunder like the thundering of the sea. Ah, the roar of nations They roar like the roaring of many waters. The nations roar like the roaring of many waters, but he will rebuke them, and they will flee far away. chased like chaff on the mountains before the wind, and whirling dust before the storm. At evening time, behold, terror. Before morning they are no more. This is the portion of those who loot us and the lot of those who plunder us. That is Isaiah 17. Let's pray. We already prayed, sorry. I'm tired today. I'm tired. Okay, an oracle concerning Damascus. So Damascus, Syria, in the north, um, had been an enemy of Israel. the northern kingdom, and had sometimes been an enemy of Judah. Sometimes Israel had hired Damascus to attack Judah. Sometimes uh Damascus and Israel together had conspired against Judah. That actually happened in the days of Isaiah, in the days of his ministry. Damascus, the Syrians, and Ephraim Samaria, the northern kingdom of Israel, they conspired together, and that's when Judah under Ahaz, King Ahaz, sent word uh to the Assyrians to bring them in inviting, you know, inviting a lion into your house to get rid of uh dogs and that's a dangerous thing to do. Um so God is now prophesying about Damascus that they're going to be destroyed. And this is a very controversial prophecy, by the way, in the Bible, because lots of people say, well, this never happened, and so God's word isn't true. Some people say, well, it's going to happen yet in the future. But it did happen It did happen. In Assyria laid siege to Damascus in 322. 332 BC. I told you I was tired. Assyria laid siege to Damascus in 732 BC, and it was destroyed from being a city for a period of time. Now, Babylon earlier had been prophesied against that it would no more be a city, that it would be a wasteland forever for generations upon generations, and that's true, even to this day. The ancient city of Babylon is not to be inhabited. Today it's not to be inhabited because it's been uncovered as an archaeological dig and it's set apart as this place that's preserved by archaeologists, but it's never going to be reinhabited. And it never had been from the day it was destroyed up until it was uncovered by archaeologists. No one had ever lived there again. Damascus is not given that same prophecy. It wasn't forever that it was going to be destroyed, just it would cease to be a city, it would become a heap of ruins, it would be a place for flocks, and that happened. from 732 for you know a while I think a couple hundred years before it was rebuilt and re-established as Damascus. Of course it's still there today. Damascus as capital Syria and one of the oldest cities in the world. But it was not continuously inhabited and continuously a city after that siege by the Assyrians in 732 BC. But then there's this wonderful prophecy that When there's restoration, sometime in the future, right, the remnant of Syria will be like the glory of the children of Israel, and in that day the glory of Jacob will be brought low. What does this mean? Well, you know that in the early days of the church, after Jesus came and ministered and and died and rose again and went back to heaven and poured out his Holy Spirit, in the early days of the church, and for centuries and centuries, Syria was a major center for Christian activity for the church. It was Antioch in Syria where Paul and Barnabas were set aside as the first Christian missionaries to take the gospel to uh Crete and to Cyprus and to Turkey, modern-day Turkey, and then he eventually into Greece. So the sending out of the gospel in a very intentional way, the first commissioned and sent out missionaries to the Gentiles, Paul and Barnabas, came from Antioch. in Syria. And Syria became this capital area for early Christianity for hundreds of years. of uh Christian history. While what happened to the Jewish people, the glory of Jacob, it was brought low Because they rejected Christ and they rejected the gospel and they rejected salvation, and even to this day the Jewish people are almost all unbelievers because they don't believe in the one true God or in Jesus Christ whom he has sent. And so that is a powerful prophecy of that. We also get In verses 7 and 8, an explanation for why God does bring cities and civilizations low We saw this in chapters 15 and 16 where God struck Moab with the Assyrian invasion and with even lions and But he didn't like it. He was weeping for them, even if he was doing it. Well, why then why does he do it? Right? Well, verses 7 and 8 tell us, in that day, man will not look to his maker. Sorry. Read properly, Jason. In that day man will look to his maker, and his eyes will look on the Holy One of Israel. He will not look to the altars, the work of his hands, and he will not look on what his own fingers have made When we get so entrenched in our idolatry, and our idolatry seems to be working for us, we're committing ourselves in an idolatrous way to our career. to money, to the pursuit of financial security, when we're giving ourselves over to pleasure and to self indulgence and to entertainment and to distractions, when we're puffed up with pride and self esteem, whatever it is When we're giving ourselves to our idols and they seem to be working for us, we're not calling on the Lord. We're not repenting of sin, we're not seeking the Lord, we're not earnestly following him, and we're cut off From God who alone is the source of eternal life and an eternal joy. And so God in love will shake us up Shake us to the point where we are devastated to only two or three berries in the top of the highest bow, only four or five on the branches of fruit tree. We'll be shaken up and things stripped away from us in our life so that we will turn to the Lord. So that we will come to our senses and we will realize that we were made by God and for God and our hope is only found in God. And we will turn to him. And that's why God makes it so that the strong cities are like deserted places. They're deserted because they forgot God, and God is wanting to turn their hearts back to himself. So I think our takeaway from today's chapter A very simple one is, where are you right now? Are you in a place where your idols are basically working for you? You're getting the life that you want, and you're relatively complacent. Or are you in a place where God's shaking you and the fruit is falling off of your tree and It's getting more and more barren in terms of joy and satisfaction and peace in life. Or are you in a place where God has shaken you and you've sought the Lord and you are now growing in Him Think about that. Examine your heart before the Lord. Turn to Him today, even right now, and say, Lord, I know that I was made for you. By you, and that life is only found in you. Turn to him, pray to him, seek him, and he will restore you. Let's pray. Father, you love us too much to leave us alone in our idolatry. That would be hatred. For you to just be cold-hearted toward us and say, fine, have your idols, I don't care. That would not be love. And you love us. And so you pursue us, even as we are in our idolatry. You pursue us. And you seek to turn us back to yourself by your grace. Turn us to yourself. Turn our hearts to you. Help us to look to you, to rest in you, to long for you, to worship you, to give thanks to you, and to be fruitful for you. We pray all this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Thanks for joining me for Isaiah 17. Hope it was a blessing to you. Tomorrow we'll go on to Isaiah 18. Have a blessed day in the Lord.