Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. It is our 675th day Together in God's Word as we walk through one chapter at a time. We've come to Isaiah 6, one of the most famous chapters in the Bible, one of the most powerful encounters with God recorded anywhere in Scripture. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we turn to His Word today. Father in heaven. You're good. You're good in all your ways. You're good without fail, without turning, without faltering. You're great. And worthy of our praise. Help us to be confronted by you in a way that transforms our lives today as we look at Isaiah 6 together. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah chapter 6. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings, with two he covered his face, with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew, and one called to another and said. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the foundations of the the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke, and I said, Woe is me! For I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal taken with tongs from the altar, and he touched My mouth and said, Behold, this has touched your lips, your guilt is taken away, and your sin atoned for. And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? Then I said, Here I am, send me. And he said, Go and say to this people, keep on hearing, but do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive Make the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy and blind their eyes, lest They see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed. Then I said, How long, O Lord? And he said, Until cities lie waste without inhabitant And houses without people, and the land is a desolate waste. And the people, and the Lord removes people far away, and the forsaken places are many. In the midst of the land, and though a tenth remain in it, it will be burned again, like a terebinth or an oak, whose stump remains when it is filled. Is the stump. Isaiah chapter six. Powerful vision encounter that Isaiah has. Isaiah's been in his prophetic ministry by the time this happens. We know this from the opening that tells us that Isaiah received these visions and these prophecies during the reign of King Uzzah. Uzziah, and this happens in the year that King Uzziah died. So a very um common Interpretation of this chapter, this passage is that this is the call of Isaiah to the prophetic ministry. And in a sense it is, but in a sense it's not, because he's already been serving as a prophet. But this certainly is a powerful encounter with God that does significantly further sanctify him for a greater and more challenging prophetic ministry. So I think God's already been using him and speaking his word through him, but now God gives him this vision of himself To greatly humble Isaiah, cleanse him, and prepare him for an even more difficult prophetic calling. And that's the part we need to see that is often over So, in the year that King Uzziah died, Uzziah was a long reigning king. He served as king of Judah for fifty years. incense in the temple, in the very place where Isaiah has this vision, Uzziah tried to offer up incense and he was struck with leprosy and he was shut up as a leper for the last several years of his life. And now he's died. And Isaiah is shown this vision in the temple of the Lord sitting upon A throne that's far exalted above the temple, because it's the train of his robe that fills the temple. So the Lord is sitting high upon a throne. High and lifted up, way above the temple. But the train of his robe is filling the temple. And above him stood the seraphim. So these are wonderfully powerful creatures. creatures that are high in the air, four of them with with six wings each. With two they cover their face, with two they cover their feet, with two they flew. If you or I saw a seraphim, we would fall down dead, or like we were dead. And we were just collapsed in terror and wonder at these awesome creatures, and yet they cover themselves in the presence of the one who is holy, holy, holy with such intense and radiant holiness that they dare not look upon it. And that's why they continually call out to one another, holy, holy, holy. God is unique. God is in a category onto himself. God is weighty and radiant and splendid and Majestic and glorious. All of this is contained in this word holy. He's set apart. He's unique. He's in a category by himself. He is weighty, he is glorious, he is righteous, he is without peer, without equal. Holy is the essential attribute of God. His glory is a holy glory. His justice is a holy justice. His love is a holy love because it's without peer, it's without equal. And I do think the threefold repetition, yes, it is intensification, the holiest of holiest of holiest, but it's also I think threefold Because it's an echo of the Trinity, the triune God who is holy, holy, holy, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. That's why that wonderful hymn, Holy, Holy, Holy, emphasizes God and three persons. Blessed Trinity. He speaks. He speaks. And the foundations of the thresholds. This temple is massive, built by Solomon, giant. Giant pillars, huge stones, the foundations of the threshold shake at the voice of him who calls, and the house is filled with smoke. Smoke is This image of the presence of God that is mysterious and sort of unknowable but but powerfully present. And Isaiah's Isaiah's Done. He's just done. He says, Woe is me, for I am lost. I am undone. I am coming unraveled at the very fiber of my being. That's where It means by I am lost. Why? For I am a man of unclean lips. I've been a prophet of the Lord. I've been speaking out words of condemnation to those who are in sin, but I realize I'm a sinner Every powerful ministry begins with an acknowledgement that I am a sinner. I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. My eyes have seen the King. The Lord of hosts. The need for cleansing, the need for atonement is present. So a seraphim brings a burning coal from the altar, the altars where sacrifices were made. So it's a fire of sacrifice. And it touches his mouth. And the seraphim says, Behold, this has touched your lips. Your guilt is taken away. Your sin atoned. Before we can really be used by God, we have to realize what sinners we are, where atonement is to be found, which is only in the cross of Jesus Christ. is atoned for by the once-for-all sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And then we're ready. We're ready to answer this call. Whom shall I send and who will go for us? There's that plurality, the unity and the plurality within the Godhead, whom shall I send and who will go for us? This is more than just the use of the royal we. It is a singularity and plurality Within the person of the Godhead. God is one, and yet God is three. God is holy, holy, holy. Whom shall I send? Who will go for us? Then I send, here I am, send Me. And he says go. But the call that he gets is hard. It's a hard call. Go and say to this people, keep on hearing but do not understand. Keep on seeing but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people dull and And their ears heavy, and blind their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed. It's a ministry of judgment It's a ministry of hardening. Prophetic judgment. And so Isaiah asks, how long, O Lord? Are they just gonna not hear for like ten years and then they'll repent? Seven years then they'll repent? Twenty years and then they'll repent? And the Lord says, No, until cities lie waste without inhabitant and houses without people. And the land is a desolate waste, and the Lord removes people far away. Basically, Judah and Jerusalem are going to be completely destroyed, and all their people taken away into exile. There will be a tenth that remains. There will be a holy remnant. But even it's going to be burned again until there's just a stump of this once great tree. It's gonna be just a stump. But the holy seed is its stump. What does that mean? Well, in chapter eleven we're gonna hear about the one who comes as a sheep From the stump of Jesse. That stump, the cut down house of the Lord, will produce a fresh shoot The Lord Jesus Christ, the holy branch, the righteous branch from the stump of Jesse, and he will bring salvation to God's people. So a ministry that is faithful Is repentant, is a sinner preaching to sinners, is based on the atonement that's done by Christ and And sometimes brings judgment, but until, until Christ is the one, the holy seed of the stump, the heir of the promise. The King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Jesus Christ is the one we have to be driven to. Sometimes everything else has to be stripped away until it's Him and Him alone we cling to. And find our hope in. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you that He is the seed of Abraham, the seed of David, the seed of promise Thank you that he has come to full flower and to fulfill every promise you've given to your people. May we be faithful to confess our sins, to be forgiven, to speak your truth plain and straight. As ambassadors for Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Isaiah chapter 6. What a wonderful, wonderful chapter. It's a blessing to you, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.