Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 697 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we come today to Isaiah chapter 20. We're in these chapters dealing with Cush and Egypt, and now we get a sign against Egypt and Cush. Uh and we've seen already that Egypt and Cush were enemies of God's people, but they were also The Kushites were feared by God's people, the Egyptians were were wrongly trusted in by God's people, the Egyptians were this great power, and yet they were not reliable and they were going to be brought down into shame and subjugation. But both Cush and Egypt were given this promise that they were going to be among God's people, that they were gonna know the Lord. And I told you that the church in Egypt, one of the oldest continuously worshipping churches in the world, the Coptic Christians of Egypt And then the Kushites were a strong Christian civilization for hundreds and hundreds of years until more recent history. And the gospel is growing there again in South Sudan, which is uh present-day world. Part of where present-day Cush would be is in South Sudan. Anyway, let's pray and look at chapter 20 together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your faithfulness to keep your word. You promised things through the prophet Isaiah 2,700 years ago or more, 2750 years ago. And they are coming true today in the world. And we can rejoice to know that, to see that, to participate in that evening. What a great joy and privilege it is. Father, please write Isaiah 20 on our hearts. Help us to see the truth of it, and help us to live for you, for the goodness and truth of your word. As it is fulfilled in Jesus Christ our Savior. It is in His name we pray. Amen. Isaiah chapter 20 In the year that the commander of in chief, who was sent by Sargon, the king of Assyria, came to Ashdod and fought against it and captured it. At that time the Lord spoke by Isaiah, the son of Amaz, saying, Go and loose the sackcloth from your waist, and take off your sandals from your feet And he did so, walking naked and barefoot. Then the Lord said, As my servant Isaiah has walked naked and barefoot for three years, as a sign and a quartent against Egypt and Cush, so shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptian captives and the Cushite exiles both the young and the old, naked and barefoot, with buttocks uncovered, the nakedness of Egypt. Then they shall be dismayed and ashamed, because of Cush their hope and of Egypt their boast, and the inhabitants of this coastland will say in that day, Behold, this is what has happened to those in whom we hoped. and to whom we fled for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria. And we, how shall we escape? That's Isaiah chapter 20. It's a short chapter, you know, just um well six verses. And so this probably won't be a super long devotional, but it's important, there's some important truths here. So this is a very specifically dated prophecy, actually a prophetic action, right? It says, In the year that the commander-in-chief, who was sent by Sargon, the king of Assyria, came to Ashdod and fought against it and captured it. That is in the year 711 BC. So 11 years prior to that, in 722, is when the northern kingdom of Israel was taken captive. And a little bit after this, about 702, is when Jerusalem will be immediately threatened by the Assyrians, and the angel of the Lord will come in one night and and shatter the Assyrian army, killing 185,000 soldiers in one night. That's coming up later in Isaiah 37 But here we have something that takes place almost halfway between those two pivotal events. And it's in 711, and it is the conquering of the Philistines. Now the Philistines were already spoken against earlier. in Isaiah's prophecy that they were going to be taken down. And here's where it happens. And in the year that it happens, God essentially gives Isaiah this sign to perform. Loose the sackcloth from your waist, take off your sandals from your feet. And he did so walking naked and barefoot. You can think of it as like Loose the sackcloth from your waist is like a hospital gown that's untied. It was probably the most uh contemporary example we have of that. So sackcloth would have been something you'd wear over your whole body, it would cover you, right? But then you would cinch it around the waist, and by cinching it around the waist you are covering yourself and being modest. So if you un if you untie it, you loose it, you're not completely naked. You're not wearing no clothes at all. But You know, the backside is exposed, right? Like a hospital gown that's not tied and you go walking down the hall of the hospital. Um So that's that's the picture of what God asks Isaiah to do. That's weird. Isn't it? I mean sometimes we just need to stop and say about the Bible, that's really weird. Why would God ask him to do that? Well, he's trying to get people's attention. Because he's been giving these words through Isaiah, they've been coming, they've been spoken, they've been proclaimed, and everyone's kind of blowing them off and ignoring him. And any preacher who's ever preached knows the feeling of this, where you're pouring out your heart, you're proclaiming the word of God, you're saying on the authority of God Himself, thus says the Lord. And people are like, oh, what time is it? When is lunch? You know, when is this guy going to be quiet? I've got other things to do. And that's kind of been the reaction to Isaiah. So the Lord says, I want you to do something that's going to get their attention. Take off your sandals, loose the sackcloth from your waist, and go walking around. What's the point of it? The point of it is that this is what's coming for Egypt and Cush. And it's coming soon. So he's already said that the Kushites, this tall, smooth skinned people from the south southern part of the Nile River where the where the the land that the rivers divide, this area of really present day South Sudan and part of Ethiopia and part of Kenya, that area is These people who who are known for being fierce warriors and who are feared far and wide, those people who are mighty in natural strength. And then the Egyptians, who represent the most advanced civilization in the world, they're the longest established civilization. They have great libraries, they have great religion, they have great temples. They have great public works projects, they have a great irrigation system, they have a great military with lots of horses and chariots. So the Kushites represent the best of man's natural prowess. And the Egyptians represent the best of man's technological prowess. So, which of them is able to stand against the Lord? Neither one of them. They're both equally humiliated. Absolutely. And so the sign of humiliation is that trusting in your own natural abilities, like the Cushites. or trusting in the advanced nature of your civilization like the Egyptians, both of these are dead-end streets. They do not lead you anywhere good. They are not going to bring you security. And if God proclaims because of your idolatry that you are going to be taken into exile, that you're going to be destroyed, you're going to be destroyed And there's nothing, right? Now, why say it at the time when the Philistines fell? Well, verse 6 gives us Really verses five and six. Then they shall be dismayed and ashamed, because of Cush, their hope and of Egypt their boast, and the inhabitants of this coastland will say in that day, Behold, this is what has happened to those in whom we hoped and to whom we fled for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria. And we, how shall we escape? What what's the point here? The point is not only against the Egyptians and the Kushites themselves but against the Philistines, and then to a certain degree some of the Judahites who had hoped in Cush, who had boasted in Egypt. No, Philistines, the the Philistia area, it's it's the present-day Gaza Strip. And if you're paying attention to the news at all, you know that the southern border of Gaza is Egypt. And that's the way it was in the ancient world too. When you went to the southern part of Gaza, you were on the border of Egypt. That border has been you know, it's shifted back and forth, but it's been a basic dividing between uh Gaza, the the the Philistine territory and the Egyptian kingdom for just for thousands of years, really. And so The Philistines were saying, You're not gonna be able to conquer us because you know Egypt is our next door neighbor. You come too close, the Egyptians are kind of kinda gonna come out in their horses and their chariots. And there's no stopping them, especially that part of the world is very broad, flat plain, and the chariots and the horsemen of Egypt could just be an awesome host. of power and strength and might. And the Assyrians, you know, they're from the hill country a little bit up north And they're probably not as good at the whole chariot combat thing. And so they're boasting. What what so what's the lesson of this for us? Lesson for us is Do not trust in anything but the Lord. Sometimes the Bible is very simple and clear, isn't it? And yet, how often do we need to hear that lesson? Like every day of our lives, do not trust in anything but the Lord. You might be trusting in your natural abilities. You might be trusting in your strength in your in your prominence, in your position. You might be trust trusting in civilization, in in power. What for whatever, right? Oh, I'm gonna be okay. I've got economic security. I've got, you know backed treasuries and secure bonds and I'm gonna be okay no matter what comes after me. Or, you know, I have always been able to work hard and always been able to earn a good living and I'm going to keep being able to do that. And you're boasting in either your natural ability or in the stability of your civilization And the greatness of your civilization, and you're not trusting in God. You're not trusting in God. What God will often do, because He loves us, is He will strip away All of the things that we boast in and trust in, all the things we hope in and rely on that are not Him. Uh this past Sunday in Sunday school, we learned that God even allowed the temple in Jerusalem to eventually be destroyed. It's going to be, you know, a hundred and uh twenty years on from this time period here. But eventually he's going to let the temple in Jerusalem be destroyed. Why? Because people were boasting in the temple rather than in the Lord and truly seeking him. Whatever it is that you trust in, God may take it away So that you will learn to trust and rest and hope and rely on and boast in Him alone. As the Apostle Paul says, far be it from me to boast in anything but the cross of Jesus Christ, by which I was crucified to the world, and the world was crucified to me, and we need to learn that lesson every day of our lives. Because we are constantly tempted to find our identity, our security, our expectation for the future, our sanity in the things of the world. And they just don't last. And they're just not that strong. But God is. His steadfast love endures forever. His steadfast love endures Forever. Just this morning in my personal Bible reading, I was in Psalm 136. And that great refane, it like beats into your head like a repeated drumbeat. That's what we should be trusting in. That's what we should be trusting in. The steadfast love of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, forgive us. Forgive us for trusting in the Egyptians and the cushions of our lives, whatever they may be. our job, our our home, our financial investments, our retirement portfolio, our national citizenship. our natural abilities, our intellect, our work ethic, our physical strength, whatever it is that we trust in, if it's not you, it's not ultimately reliable Yes, you give us good gifts. Yes, you give us blessings. Yes, you delight to bless us. But you bless us not so that we'll trust in the blessings, but so that we'll trust in the blesser. We're so foolish. We're so easily led astray. Have mercy on us, O God, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Isaiah 20, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord by trusting in the one who gives every good and perfect gift and not in the gifts he gives. Amen.