Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 684th day together in God's Word, and we come today to Isaiah chapter 11, beautiful chapter of Scripture, wonderful part of the unfolding gospel according to Isaiah that we see before us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is rich and full of Christ in every chapter, on every page. Christ in all his fullness and diversity and richness for your people. Feed us today with Christ, we pray in his name. Amen. Amen. Isaiah chapter 11. There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse And a branch from his roots shall bear fruit, and the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord And his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge by what his eyes see, or decide disputes by what his ears hear. but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth And he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked. Righteousness shall be the bells of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his loins. The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf together, and a little child shall lead them. The cow and the bear shall graze, their young shall lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox The nursing child shall play over the hole of the cobra, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the outer's den They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. In that day, the root of Jesse, who shall stand as a signal for the peoples, of him shall the nations inquire, and his resting place shall be glorious. In that day The Lord will extend his hand yet a second time to recover the remnant that remains of his people from Assyria, from Egypt, from Pathras, from Cush, from Elam, from Shinar, from Hamath. and from the coastlands of the sea, he will raise a signal for the nations, and he will assemble the banished of Israel, and gather the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth. the jealousy of Ephraim shall depart, and those who harass Judah shall be cut off. Ephraim shall not be jealous of Judah, and Judah shall not harass Ephraim, but they shall swoop down on the shoulder of the Philistines in the west. And together they shall plunder the people of the east, they shall put out their hand against Edom and Moab, and the Ammonites shall obey them. And the Lord will utterly destroy the tongue of the Sea of Egypt, and will wave his hand over the river with his scorching breath, and strike it into seven channels, and he will lead people across in sandals, and there will be a highway. from Assyria for the remnant that remained of this people as there was for Israel when they came up from the land of Egypt That is Isaiah chapter 12, this beautiful prophecy of the righteous branch, the righteous and faithful branch. And where does it come from? It comes from the stump of Jesse, from the roots. So this is a remarkable prophecy because it's given during the kingships of the Davidic dynasty. This is perhaps during Ahaz's kingship or maybe Hezekiah's. We don't know for sure. But this is while there are there's actively has been for generations and will be for a few generations yet to come, kings from the line of David, from the root of from the Jesse's tree, right? Sitting on the throne. But there's a prophecy here that there's going to be a stump. In order for there to be a stump, that means the tree has to be cut down and left Which means exile is coming. It means that the Davidic line is going to be cut off. That's a hard thing to prophesy, in the middle of that Davidic line still reigning and ruling over God's people. But the Davidic line will be cut off, and then sometime later, sometime down the line, a branch from his roots, from the root of Jesse, from the source, from the taproot. A branch comes forth, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is of the line and lineage of David from Jesse But he is one who actually precedes David. That's from deep in the root. He is a one who actually his origins are before David and before Jesse because he is from everlasting. And he comes into the world, and at his baptism the Spirit of the Lord rested upon him, came down out of heaven in the form of a dove, and rested upon him The spirit of wisdom and understanding, counsel and light, knowledge and the fear of the Lord, Jesus spoke words of wisdom that no one else had ever spoken before or ever spoke since. He gave wise counsel. He confounded the wise men of his age with his answers to their questions and his questions that they could not answer. And then he showed power in his might. He healed the sick, he raised the dead, he healed the blind, he walked on water, he calmed the storm, he fed five thousand. He did so openly and publicly in many cases where These miracles were were witnessed by hundreds or even thousands of people who were not his followers and never would be his followers, and yet they could not deny what their eyes saw. So Jesus clearly came in wisdom and understanding and counsel and might bringing the knowledge and fear of the Lord. And we're told in the Gospels that Jesus didn't need to hear testimony about people. Right? Because he doesn't need to judge by what his eyes see or decide disputes by what his ears hear. How is that possible? Only if he knows what is in the heart of a person. And that's exactly what we hear about the Lord Jesus in the Gospels. He didn't need testimony by anyone because he knew what was in their heart. And so with righteousness and equity, he judges. And then we have a sort of collapsing of the horizon, which happens a lot of times in prophecy, where you're looking out over the coming and the ministry and the life. and the and then the second coming of Jesus over a long period of time, but it's a collapsed horizon because the timing is unknown to Isaiah in this prophecy. He just knows what he's going to do, not necessarily when he's going to do it. And so judgment comes. Now Jesus in verse 4, the judgment here, will ultimately come when he comes again or when he consummates the kingdom. uh in his appearing and judging of the world. But even while he was here in his earthly ministry, he judged on behalf of the poor. He spoke words of condemnation to the rich, and the rich, the powerful who did not hear him, they had their place taken away from them when God judged his people. So that is something that Jesus talked about in his earthly ministry. He also did within history when the Jewish leadership was judged and removed from their place of of power. uh when they had rejected Jesus and he also um established many poor people and many outcast people as being people of of leadership and of wealth and of worth rather within his kingdom, but ultimately will be fulfilled and consummated when he comes again. When he comes again. And when he comes again We will see in some literal way, in some actual physical way, this fulfillment of the wolf dwelling with the lamb, and the leopard lying down with the young goat, and the calf, and the lion, and the fattened calf. together and a little child lead them, all this picture of a a creation restored and at peace. But even now Even now the gospel is the greatest force for reconciliation between enemies. People who are naturally estranged with each other, tribes that are naturally hostile to each other. from generation upon generation can be reconciled to one another through the gospel. So the gospel brings peace now, but when Jesus comes again will bring the fullness and the perfection of that peace, as the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea. Some people think that's going to happen before Jesus comes again, but no. Not that total knowledge. See, the earth being full of the knowledge of the Lord as the water cover the sea means there can be no one, nowhere. Ain't gonna be no one nowhere. This isn't good grammar for you. There's not going to be anyone anywhere in the world who doesn't know the Lord, who doesn't know the Lord As thoroughly as the waters cover the seas, how thoroughly do the waters cover the seas? Absolutely. Of course, the sea by definition is covered with water. And so when Jesus comes again is when this will come to ultimate fulfillment. However, even until that time The gospel spreads, the gospel permeates, the gospel works its way like leaven throughout the world and among the nations of the world And God is gathering in to his church the ecclesia, the gathering, the gathered ones. He's gathering into his church people from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, from Assyria and Egypt and Paphros and Kush and Elam and Shinar and Hamath into the new Jerusalem, that is the church. into the people of God, that is the assembly of the redeemed. Now, when Jesus comes again, of course, we're going to be gathered in in a in a consummation of the end of the age and the beginning of the new heavens and the new earth. and everything will come to full and glorious fruition. But but this gospel permeation, this gospel penetration to the nations is happening even now. So this wonderful chapter of Isaiah 11 is a great chapter that tells us who Jesus is and why he comes and what he does when he comes and it and it paints this picture for us of what is sometimes called the already but not yet kingdom of God. The kingdom of God is here It is permeating the world. People are being gathered in from across the world. People are being gathered up as the people of God in the Church of Jesus Christ. And yet And yet, not yet, because we're still divided, we're still scattered, we're not unified, we're not glorified, and so we're waiting for that day when we will see Jesus face to face, and that which has begun and that which is spreading will be consummated at the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Aren't you excited for that day? I hope you are. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the righteous branch from Jesse's root Thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior. Thank you that we have hope and salvation in Him and in Him alone. Write your word on our hearts. Put your gospel in our soul and our bones so deeply that it would motivate us to take Christ to the nations. Day by day, week by week, in prayer and evangelism and church planting, and help us to long for that day when he shall come again. And we will see him. And every knee will bow and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to your glory, Father. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well that's Isaiah 11 tomorrow, right on to chapter 12 that you see at the bottom of the screen. That's what is up for us tomorrow. Hope you can join me. Have a blessed day in the Lord.