Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with us as we're coming to Oh, one of the best things that ever came from the lips of any person in the history of the world, the words of the Lord Jesus on the cross. We're here in John 19, verses 28 to 42, and asking, what did Jesus mean when he said It is finished. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your Son, our Savior. Thank you for his death in our place on the cross, his satisfaction of divine justice, his purchasing of our redemption. May we see Jesus and his work more clearly and be more deeply thankful and humbled and obedient and joyful for the time we spend in your word this morning. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. John 19, verses 28 to 42. After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said, To fulfill the scripture, I thirst. A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. Since it was the day of preparation, and so that the bodies should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for that Sabbath was a high day. The Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and of the other who had been crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. He who saw it has borne witness. His testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, that you also may believe. For these things took place that the Scripture might be fulfilled. None of his bones will be broken. And again another scripture says, they will look on him whom they have pierced. After these things, Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took away his body. Nicodemus also, who earlier had come to Jesus by night, came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes about seventy-five pounds in weight. So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews. Now in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden. And in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had yet been laid. So because of the Jewish day of preparation, since the tomb was close at hand, they laid Jesus there. Jesus cried out seven different sayings from the cross. One of the things that we've done several times at Forest Hill is on Good Friday, we have an online worship time. where I've gone through and done teaching on each of the seven last sayings of Jesus on the cross. You can find that material on our YouTube channel if you're interested in it. But one of the most powerful and probably my favorite that Jesus says from the cross is what's recorded only here in John's Gospel. He cries out, it is finished. Years ago, like a century ago or so, there were people who were supposed to be on a search for the real historical Jesus that they said was kind of buried beneath the propaganda of the gospel accounts. They they latched on to this, it is finished, as sort of a last desperate cry of a dying man, as proof that Jesus had died in despair. They claimed that when you take, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me, which was the first thing that Jesus cried out on the cross. And it is finished, and you put those together, it tells you everything you need to know about Jesus, which is that the historical Jesus was a failure that he failed in his mission to become the Jewish Messiah, and he died a horrible death in utter rejection as a failure. And then they say later His disciples, sort of desperate to s make a living for themselves, make a name for themselves, made up the story of the resurrection, or maybe they had a hallucination in their deep grief and they thought they saw him, but whatever it is. These critical scholars, who obviously don't believe the Bible, said it is finished, evidence of defeat. But This is not even a good way to do history because you'd be doing history by ignoring eyewitness accounts. John, who writes this gospel, says he was there. His testimony is true, and he knows he's telling the truth that you also may believe. And John is going to tell us about the resurrection. And John is going to testify, even as he's punished, even as he's beaten, even as he's put into exile on the island of Patmos, of the things that he saw. So ignoring eyewitness testimony In exchange for a speculative theory about what might be is not good history. It also ignores all the Old Testament sources for the things that Jesus said on the cross. It is finished. is a cry not of despair or defeat, but of triumph and satisfaction. Because Psalm 22 begins with, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Yesterday I mentioned that Jesus was called King of the Jews to connect him to David. And I said, one of the things that happens when you connect him to David is that it brings you to Psalm 22, which David wrote, and which is a powerful description of what Christ experienced on the cross. Jesus is actually calling our attention to Psalm 22 when he cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Or in Aramaic, Eloi, Eloi, Lama Sabactani. He said it in Aramaic because he knew that was the language of the Jewish people, and the Jewish people had memorized the Psalms in Aramaic and recited them and sang them on a regular basis, and they would know. A lot of the Greeks and the Romans who were there, they were confused by what Jesus was saying, but he's pointing the Jewish people to Psalm 22. Psalm 22, verse 15, goes on to say, My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue sticks to my jaws. And John tells us that Jesus fulfilled this when he said, I thirst to fulfill the scriptures. And then If we go to the end of Psalm 22, we find a statement that he has done it is how it's translated in English, but actually in the original Hebrew it is finished. can also be a good way to render that. Let's just walk really quickly through Psalm 22 and look at some of the details that are here for the crucifixion of Jesus. So if you look at Psalm 22, verse 6 talks about how Jesus is scorned and despised by the people. Verses 7 through 8 talk about how Jesus was mocked by those who saw him on the cross. Verse 14 talks about Jesus' bones being out of joint, which commonly happens during crucifixion. Verse 15, extremely thirsty. Verse 16, hands and feet pierced. Verse 17, none of his bones being broken. And verse 18, his clothing being divided and then being gambled over. Those are seven specific details About the crucifixion of Jesus that were that were written from David a thousand years before the birth of Jesus and hundreds and hundreds of years before crucifixion was even invented as a way of executing someone. We can add to this other specific details that come from Isaiah 53, such as in today's passage. We see that Jesus was buried in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea. He was a disciple of Jesus, but but in secret for fear of the Jews, he was also a member of the Sanhedrin, and so was Nicodemus. And Joseph of Arimathea gave his tomb, a newly cut tomb. in which no one had yet been laid. Isaiah 53 tells us that Jesus was laid in a rich man's tomb in his death. Very specific details that come from Psalm 22 and Isaiah 53, like this from verses 4 to 6 of Isaiah 53. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities, upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. and with his wounds we are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. So Isaiah 53 not only contains details, pierced, crushed, chastised, which is a way of talking about the scourging of Jesus, but also the why, of why Jesus did it. He did it to pay for our sins, to purchase healing for us. And so when Jesus cries out, it is finished, what does it mean? He has done it is the way our English translations render the end of Psalm 22. He's done it. It's finished. What did he do? What's finished? Well, in Greek, this word to telesti is what Jesus actually cried out on the cross, to telesti. It means very commonly paid in full. If you had an outstanding debt and that debt was settled, they would write on the bill to teleste, paid in full. It is finished. It's done. So one thing it means is that Jesus paid the price for all of our sins, and that's what Isaiah 53 tells us as well. But it also means that all of the striving All of the ceremonial law sacrifices, all of the attempts to achieve righteousness that were there under the law, all of that is finished as well Because Jesus has finished the work of salvation. He's fulfilled every detail of the prophecies that were made about him. He paid for every sin of all of his people. He purchased full healing and lasting peace for us. And so in the end, we can say that because of the cross and because of the cross alone, our salvation is finished indeed. And then, of course, three days later Jesus will rise again, bringing eternal life. All of our sins paid for, all of our debt canceled, all of the sacrifices fulfilled, and then three days later, eternal life. Brought to light through the resurrection of Jesus. Jesus is everything we need from beginning to end. It is finished in him. He has done it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for such a Savior. Lord Jesus, thank you for accomplishing our salvation in a way that's beyond our understanding. Even what we do understand just blows our minds that every single one of our sins could be completely paid for and divine justice that we deserve is completely satisfied and that we are free from all the debt. that we owe for all the wrong that we've ever done or ever will do. That is amazing. And yet there's so much more as well that you've given to us adoption and an inheritance and a future and a hope. Wow. Thank you. Help us to live today by faith and enjoy. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again here for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope it was a beneficial time for you. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.