Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day ten eighty-four, and we have come to James chapter three. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are God, and there is no one but you. who is God. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, give us wisdom and write James 3 in our hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. James chapter 3. Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness For we all stumble in many ways, and if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his own body. If we put bits into the mouths of horses, so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well. Look at the ships also, though they are so large, and are driven by strong winds They are guided by a very small rudder wherever the will of the pilot directs. So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire, and the tongue is a fire. A world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell. For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile and sea creature can be tamed and has been tamed by mankind, but no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil full of deadly poison. With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse people who are made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessing and cursing my brothers. These things ought not to be so. Does a spring pour forth from the same opening both fresh and salt water? Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives, or a grapevine produce figs? Neither can a salt pond yield fresh water. Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts Do not boast and be false to the truth. This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice. But the wisdom from above is first pure. Then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make. Peace. That is James chapter 3, a very powerful and very convicting chapter. It opens up with a very convicting verse that not many of you should become teachers, my brother. brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. To teach the Word of God Especially as one who is called to do so, is is a calling. It's a calling from God. It cannot be something you just decide to do because you want to. It has to be a burden given to you by the Lord. And it comes with sobriety of knowing that we will be judged. We'll be judged. We teach as we live before the presence of God, quorum deo, before the face of God, who sees all, who knows all, and who judges all things. And that's a sobering thing because you teach with your tongue. You teach by speaking words, and none of us is capable. Of controlling our tongues. None of us is capable of taming our tongues That's a message of James 3 that I think is very, very missed, and I want to make sure that we're very accurate about this as we're being called to teach the Word of God clearly and accurately. Sometimes people say James 3 is all about how important it is to tame the tongue. You've got to tame your tongue. Well, James 3 is certainly all about how potentially evil the tongue is. And how destructive the tongue is. But it says very clearly, no one can tame the tongue. Verse 8. No human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil full of deadly poison. Verse 2, we all stumble in many ways, and if anyone does not stumble in what he says, He is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body. So if I could tame my tongue I would be a perfect man because I could then bridle my whole body. I would have perfect self-control over my whole body because the tongue is the most restless evil among the members of our body. Why? Because I think it's the most directly connected to our wicked brains. You see from the brain to the tongue is a very short trip. And sometimes the filter breaks down. We just we actually say what we think One of the most untrue things about anything we say is we say it and we say, oh, I didn't really mean that. Yes, you did, or you wouldn't have said it. Jesus said, out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. And out of the heart comes forth blasphemy and murderous talk and wickedness. And that's what's taught here. And it's destructive. A word spoken cannot be unspoken. And a word of evil shows that it comes from a bad source, from a salt pond. Putting out salt water. If you have a garden, I do not recommend watering your garden with salt water. It's not good. Doesn't do any good. Doesn't bring forth life. And that's what we do with our tongues. So what's our hope? Our hope is for heavenly wisdom. Some people disconnect the last part of James 3 from the rest of it or even from the beginning of it. It's all one chapter. It's a beautiful whole. The call to teach is a sobering call because it comes with a stricter judgment. And that's sobering because none of us can tame our tongues. Our tongues are restless, evil, and powerful. And so what do we do? We need the wisdom that comes from above. We need the works that are done in the meekness of wisdom, not our own wisdom. Our own wisdom leads to what? Bitter jealousy and selfish ambition. Look, this is I'm not going to tell you anything you don't already know, but here's the truth. A lot of pastors operate out of jealousy of other pastors and selfish ambition to try to make a name for themselves. They think, well, I'm better than that person, or why does that person have a bigger church than I have? And I should have more followers on social media than that person. I'm a better preacher than they are. And those thoughts swirl. and the heads and hearts of preachers, including this preacher. And it's wrong. It's evil. Only the wisdom of God, only the wisdom that comes from above can tame the tongue, and can fill our hearts with what is good, with what is pure and peaceable. and gentle and open to reason and full of mercy and good fruits and impartial and sincere. We need that wisdom that comes from above Above this list here in James reminds me of the list of Paul in Philippians 4, whatever is good, whatever is pure, whatever is truth, truthful, whatever is praiseworthy, if there's any excellence, think about such things. And the peace of God that transcends all you're saying will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. So we need To have the peace of God, we need to have the wisdom of God. We need the wisdom of God to fill our hearts and our minds with the truth, and we need to meditate upon that truth. What is pure, what is peaceable, what is gentle, what is open to reason, what is full of mercy and good fruits, what is impartial, what is sincere, what is excellent. Excellent. What is praiseworthy? What is from God? Receive that wisdom from above through the Word and the Spirit working. Meditate on that wisdom from above. And then speak that wisdom from above. It can't come from you. It can't come from me. It has to come from the Lord Jesus through his word and his spirit. And it is the opposite. of bitter jealousy and selfish ambition. Because in bitter jealousy and selfish ambition, we boast and we're false to the truth. We're self-seeking and we're untruthful. And that is not the wisdom that comes from above. That is earthly, that is unspiritual, that is demonic. And so we must, we must, we must have the wisdom that comes from above. Now there's a promise, and I love the fact that James chapter 3 begins with a warning. And it ends with a promise. The warning, not many of you should become teachers, because you'd be held to a stricter standard. The promise and a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Do you want to see a harvest of righteousness? Sow the seed of the gospel, the Word of God, in peace by being one who makes peace. And that's only possible through the wisdom that comes from above. It cannot come through bitter jealousy or selfish ambition. It must be pure and peaceable and gentle. Pure. Must uh adhere to and align with the Word of God. Peaceable. It must be that which seeks peace, makes peace, peace with God, and peace with one another. Blessed are the peacemakers who have peace with God and who seek peace with others. Must be gentle. Not pushy, not arrogant, not haughty, not not demanding, must be open to reason, willing to listen, willing to hear people out. Full of mercy, treating people with kindness, good fruits, the fruit of the Spirit, the fruit of love, joy, peace, patience. Must be impartial, not showing that sin of partiality that we saw a few days ago in James 2, which is just the previous chapter, even though it was like four days since we were in it. it can't we can't be having the sin of partiality. It must be sincere. We must be not hypoc not hypocrites, not wearing a mask, not pretending to be something in the pulpit or on the devotional and then being something completely different off. Must be sincere. And this is my prayer, Lord, make me a man of heavenly wisdom, that I might sow in peace and reap all harvest of righteousness. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is truth, and your spirit alone changes our hearts. No man can tame the tongue, it's a restless evil among the members of the body. And yet those of us called to teach will be held to a stricter judgment So may we, may I, may each of us, in humility depend upon your heavenly wisdom. And may you work in us that which is pleasing in your sight. May you speak through us words that are pure. And peaceful, and gentle, and open to reason, and full of mercy and good fruits, and impartial. And sincere and glorifying to you and to you alone. We pray this in Jesus' name and for His sake, for His kingdom and glory. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for James chapter 3. What a great chapter. Back to the book of Zechariah tomorrow. As always, have a blessed day in the Lord.