Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 1076. James chapter 1 is before us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good and gracious to us. There's no one like you. There's no other God. There's no other source of the words of eternal life. Your word is unlike anything else in the world. It's our greatest treasure. We thank you for it. As we embark now on the book of James, please write your word on our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. James chapter 1. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes in the dispersion. Greetings. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness, and let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind, for that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double minded man Man, unstable in all his ways. Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation, and the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away. For the sun rises with its scorching heat, and withers the grass, its flower falls, and its beauty perishes, so also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits. Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. For when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life, which is which God has promised to those who love him Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire, when it is conceived, gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change Of his own will, he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Know this, my beloved brothers. Let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger, for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your soul But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, He's like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror, for he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing. If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this. to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world. That is James chapter 1. It's a powerful and practical book here by James, which James, by the way, there's some debate over this. This is likely not James, the brother of John, son of Zebedee. That James was the first of the apostles to be martyred. He was martyred under Herod Antipos in the book of Acts. This James is likely the younger half-brother of Jesus and the full brother of Jude. So James and Jude are the natural brothers, the natural sons of Joseph and Mary. Mary and Joseph went on to have four sons and at least two girls. We know that from the Gospels because the four brothers of Jesus are named, and among the brothers who are named are James and Jude. And so this is James, the half-brother of Jesus, son of Mary, son of Joseph, and he is he gives us the most practical of all the letters from leaders of the church. This James became a very key leader of the Church of Jerusalem. He's one of the evidences of the resurrection because during Jesus' earthly ministry he was opposed to Jesus. He didn't believe in Jesus, wasn't following Jesus, wasn't one of his disciples. disciples tried to get him to quit the ministry and come home because he thought he was causing an embarrassment and a scandal to the family, maybe putting a target on all their backs. And so the evidence of the resurrection is that James Saw the Lord. 1 Corinthians 15 actually names him as one of the key eyewitnesses of the resurrection and then becomes a leader in the early church. So he writes to the twelve tribes in the dispersion. This is another another place among several where it's clear that the New Testament church is a continuation of Israel. He's not writing to Jewish people. He's writing to the church. And he identifies the church as the twelve tribes in the dispersion, which is a distinctly Israel reference. And so the the church is the new Israel. This is one of several places where we see this being taught in Scripture. Greetings. The first thing he says. Is countered all joy when you meet trials. Trials are things that none of us welcome. We don't like them. We wouldn't ask for them. They're not the things we pray for. And yet, they test our faith. And as our faith is tested and is proven to be genuine, We are more steadfast. The more trials we go through, and the more our faith is tested, the more it's shown to be genuine, the more steadfast we are. And that steadfastness helps us to be mature. Perfect and complete doesn't mean we're sinless. It just means we're mature and stable. And without the trials we wouldn't have that maturity and that stability. Our faith has to be exercised to show its worth and for us to have more confidence in trusting God through things. The second thing he addresses is the lack of wisdom. In trials, in life, very often we lack wisdom. What should we do? What should we not do? That's really That's really what biblical wisdom is all about. Biblical wisdom is not all about having the answers to all the questions, having a profound set of insightful answers. It's about knowing what to do and what not to do. It's about discernment and about skill for living. And if you lack that kind of wisdom, if you lack knowing what you should do, what you should not do, what's right and what's wrong. How should you live in a way that pleases God? Ask God and He will give it to you generously. But you need to ask in faith and not doubt. Not saying, well, I want God to give me wisdom, but I don't really trust God. You're going to be unstable. You won't be steadfast. You'll be unstable. Asking God for something that you don't think God's really going to give you. And you become double-minded, you become unstable. James confronts the order of the world and gives us the order of the kingdom of God. And that is, let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation and the rich in his humiliation. What does that mean? Well, God chooses low and despised things in the world, even the things that are not, 1 Corinthians 1. to put to shame the things that are the thing. The rich, the powerful, the influential, they have nothing that they can bring to God. as a credential so that God should accept them. And so they have to boast in their humiliation. I have nothing I can give to God God doesn't care how much money you have in your bank account, God doesn't care how many degrees you have hanging on your wall, God doesn't care what place you have in the organizational ladder at your work, He doesn't care about any of that. You can't bring any of that to Him. You've got to lay it all aside. So boast in your humiliation. But if you are low, if you are despised by the world, if you don't have much formal education, if you don't make much money, if you're not much of an anybody in the eyes of the world, God has adopted you as his son. God has put his love upon you, his spirit within you. God has treasured you, and so you can boast in your exaltation. All the things in this world are like grass and flowers. They just fade away. All the things the world chases after are temporary. They're missed. Being loved by God matters for eternity. And so, blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. Because it's the faith that God gives us. It's the faith that God gives us. That is tested in trials, and when it remains when we remain steadfast, we have shown ourselves to be children of God And so when you stood the test, you received the crown of life. Not because of how great we are, but because of the great love that God has had for us, and because of the grace that he's given to us. Look down at verse 18. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. God's will, God's sovereign will sent his word to us and we were born again by that word. Others heard the word, but it just sort of made their eardrums vibrate and then left them. If the Word of God penetrated your heart and you came to true and saving faith in Jesus, that is by God's own will. When he brought you forth, you were born again by the Word of God. This lines up with what Peter says in 1 Peter 1. It lines up with what Paul says in Romans 10. It lines up with what Jesus said to his own disciples when he said, You did not choose me, but I chose you that you should go and bear fruit, fruit that will last. And so if we've been given this, then we need to see that God's been good to us and we can trust him. But what about when we're going through temptation? If God sends us trials, see one thing you have to understand is that the Greek word for trial and the Greek word for temptation are really the same word, and they're really two sides of the same coin. It's the same thing. It's a testing, it's a trial, it's a temptation, it's the same idea because it's something that reveals, it's something that divides, it's something that shows. Now, God ordains trials for us, but God does not tempt us with evil. He's not tempted by evil, he doesn't tempt anyone. But the trial that we go through May arouse in us by our own desire a temptation toward evil. And if we give in to that desire, it will conceive and give birth to sin, and if we follow after that sin it brings forth death. And that's on us. That's on us. Now God's grace is sufficient to keep us. But we need to take it seriously. We need to take it seriously that God's word is to be followed. God's will is to be sought. Then he's then he he's emphasizing doing the word. And one of the things that he contrasts that with is the anger of man. Let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger. Quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger. For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. That's a sobering truth. That's a something we need to remember We get angry at the sin in the world, we get angry at sin in people's lives and our own sin and our own lives and we just get we want to just say the right words or do the right thing or make things right. No, that doesn't that doesn't work. We cannot produce the righteousness of God. Every good and perfect gift comes down from the Father of lights. We cannot accomplish God's word, God's will. Only God's Word can accomplish God's will. So we need to put aside filthiness, rampant wickedness. We need to receive the implanted word which alone is able to save our souls. We receive the word not by just hearing it, but by doing it, and by saying it, not just with words, but with our lives that back it up. That's the transformation. And one place where that shows itself is with our tongue. That we don't just fly off the handle and say whatever comes to our mind. Again, be slow to speak and slow to anger. We don't want to have a worthless religion where we have a profession of faith that's empty and a lifestyle that's volatile and unstable. Religion is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world. This is the kind of life that is shaped by doing the word. If the word is in our souls implanted And we've been brought forth, we've been born again by that word, and we seek to obey that word, that word will shape our lives, to be concerned about others, their welfare. and to not want to be influenced by the selfishness and the wickedness that rages in the world. See, I told you this was practical. It's a very practical book. Some people don't like that. They say, oh, it's there's no real gospel here. It's just practicality. But there is actually real gospel here. Remember, the gospel is in large ways put here in verse 18. Of his own will, he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first truth of his creatures, and before that, every good and perfect gift. is from above, coming down from the Father of lights. All good, including any righteousness we might do, is a gift of God. And it comes through the Word of God. That's very gospel. But how is that gospel lived out in our lives How do we show the fruit of that gospel in how we live? That's what James is driving home to us. And it's challenging, and it should be, and we need to hear it. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word, all parts of your word. May we walk in wisdom, in humility. In obedience, in true faith, by your grace and for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's James chapter 1. Uh, and we're going to go back to Zechariah tomorrow. Have a blessed day. The Lord.