Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Today is day 1094. And we are in James chapter 5. We have just today, tomorrow, and the day after. And then we're done. James 5, let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It's been a blessing to be in it, but you have more for us in these closing days. Today, James 5. Please write it on our hearts. Such important truth we need to hear today from James 5. May we hear it and may we respond to it in faith in Jesus' name. Amen. James chapter 5. Come now, you rich. Weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted, and your garments are moth-eaten Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days. Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud are crying out against you, and the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you. Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient about it until it receives the early and the late rains. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Do not grumble against one another, brothers so that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. As an example of suffering and patience, brothers, Take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. Behold, we consider those blessed who remained steadfast. You have heard of the steadfastness of Job? And you have seen the purpose of the Lord, how the Lord is compassionate and merciful. But above all, my brothers, do not swear. either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your yes be yes, and your no be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation. Is any of you, is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him. Anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord and the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. Therefore confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain for three years and six months. It did not rain on the earth Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. My brothers, if any one among you wanders from the truth, and someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death, and will cover a multitude of sins. That is James chapter 5, our last chapter in the New Testament. So, what an opening to a chapter, huh? Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Can you imagine if I got up on a Sunday morning and just started a sermon that way? 'Cause we're all rich. All of us modern Americans, by the standard of biblical times and by the standards of the globe, we are rich people. We have clothes. Some of us have so many clothes that we have to keep some of our clothes in storage and bring them out seasonally. Or we give away bags and bags of clothes to Goodwill when they're perfectly fine still, but they're out of fashion and we no longer want to wear them. We have so much. Yet how are we using it? We're laying up treasure in the last days, aren't we? Are we using what God has blessed us with for the kingdom of God? for the blessing of others? Or are we just living in luxury and self-indulgence and fattening our hearts in a day of slaughter? Some of us might respond to this and say, oh, that sounds liberal, or oh that sounds like socialist thing. No, it's not any of that. It's not a political statement whatsoever. God says He blesses us so that we might be a blessing to others. And we cannot take the blessing that God has given us and use it to oppress others And we might do that in a lot of different ways. Someone's in need and we know that we have the opportunity to meet that need, but we choose not to because we want to do something fun with that money. Or You know, whatever. Let the Lord convict you as to what that means for your life. But God calls for generosity and justice with the things that we have in this life. And if we live in a way that is not like the world, we will suffer. And if we follow the Lord Jesus, we will suffer. The call of Christ, remember the call of Christ is to deny yourself. Take up your cross daily and follow me. So if we follow Jesus, we will suffer. And we need to be patient. We need to be patient because Jesus is coming again and Jesus will make everything right. And we need to believe that that really is true. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Now this was written 2,000 years ago, but the coming of the Lord is still at hand. Life in this world is that quick. It's so brief. And we will be with the Lord. Don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and thieves break in and steal. Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Because you believe in heaven. You see, where we invest our time and money actually says what we really believe is real. And if I think this world is all there is, I've got to get every last bit of drop of good out of it, I'm going to pour everything I have into this world. And Jesus and James and God and Malachi, they're all telling us the same thing. One voice, Scripture says, that's a lie, that's a trap. That's not the life of faith. Remain steadfast. Remain patient. Invest in the kingdom. Pour yourselves out in love for God and love for others And know that God, who is compassionate and merciful, will make everything right in the end. And don't swear? Kind of a seems like almost an interruption, verse twelve. Don't swear by heaven or earth or anything other When when are we tempted to take oaths? When we are trying to sort of make things happen or prove our point or or put our stamp on something, that's it's usually pride. It's usually Or forcefulness. We just need to s just be gentle and be truthful. Say yes when you mean yes. Say no when you mean no. Don't try to convince somebody of something by a strong oath. Leave it to the hands of God. Alright, the last part of James here I want to focus on because it's an often misunderstood approach to prayer. James says, Is anyone among you suffering, let him praise? Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. If anyone is among you sick, let him call for the elders of the church, let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up, and if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. What does this mean? Does this mean that every time any Christian is sick, you call through the elders of the church, they come, they pray over you, they anoint you with oil, and your sickness will go away, and you will be healthy again in this life, in this body. No, that's not what that means. It can't mean that. Think about it. No one would ever die. Cancer would not claim anyone Heart disease and lingering Alzheimer's and things like that, they would just go away. But that's not that's not the will of the Lord. It doesn't fit the context of enduring suffering with patience. It doesn't fit the context of what happened to the apostles? That's not what he what he's talking about. What he's talking about is We will be raised up at the last day. Again, in the context. Always take everything in context. It's the coming of the Lord that is our hope. That he's going to make things right. At the coming of the Lord, we will all be raised. Don Carson, D. A. Carson, faithful pastor, teacher, Bible scholar. Um he's right now dealing with um advanced Parkinson's disease. And he probably doesn't have that much long longer to live in this life, and the time that he has is is going to be plagued with weakness. Increasing weakness. Could he just call for the elders of his church to anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord and Parkinson's is gone? No. But he says, there's nothing wrong with me. that the resurrection can't cure. The resurrection of the dead at the coming of the Lord Jesus will cure every sickness. Every prayer for healing made for a believer is answered. We're healed in body forever and ever when Jesus comes again and all of our sin forgiven and removed. That's a better healing and a better resurrection than if just the cancer went into remission and we had three or five or ten or twenty more years of this life. Or if the Parkinson's went away and we had five or six or ten more years in this life, God has something better planned for us. And so when he says the Lord will raise him up, I believe he means raise him up on the last day. And if he's committed sins, he will be forgiven. We are to confess our sins to one another. We are to pray for one another that we may be healed. Healed. Sometimes God is pleased to answer those prayers for healing in this life. And I'm not saying it's wrong to pray for temporal healing. We've got a couple of people in our church dealing with cancer right now, and we're praying for them to be healed in this life, in this body. And we're asking that God would be pleased to do that. But we know whether or not he chooses to heal them in this life, he will heal them forever. They will be raised up. forgiven and made whole. Now the other thing about prayer that's misunderstood in this section is when James says the prayer of a righteous man has great power as it's working. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours. He prayed permanently it did my might not rain and for three years and six months it did not rain. Then he prayed again and it rained. Again, remember the context. God told Elijah to pray that it would not rain. So Elijah, in response to the Word of God, prayed, and it didn't rain for three and a half years. And then, in response to the Word of God, Elijah prayed and it rained. The Word of God, the sovereignty of God. I mean, otherwise, is James telling us that if you pray hard enough and you believe enough, you can stop it raining in the United States for three and a half years? No. No! This name-it-claimant word-of-faith nonsense that's paraded around misusing passages like this is evil. It tries to put us in the place of God. That's the original sin from the Garden of Eden. If someone tells you that you can have anything you desire if you just believe and pray hard enough for it and God will give it to you, that is the original lie from Satan, from the Garden of Eden. It is a false gospel. It will save no one and it dishonors God and it tries to put you in God's place and you are not God. God's word is sovereign. Under God's word, prayer is powerful and effective. Does God use prayer? Absolutely. He uses prayer. And here's one thing that we should be praying for. In the last thing in James 5, verses 19 and 20. Here's something we should all be praying for. If there's anyone we know who's wandered from the truth, if there's anyone we know who's wandered from the truth, pray for that person. And seek to be used by God to bring them back. Pray. Speak the word of God. Show them the love of Jesus. Pray. Speak the word of God. Show them the love of Jesus. Never tire in praying for them. Never tire in speaking the word of God to them. Never tire in showing the love of Jesus to them. Because whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death. And cover a multitude of sins. You probably have someone in your life whom you love very deeply who's wandered from the truth. Pray for them and speak the word of God to them and show them the love of Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for loving us with a love that is faithful and strong and saving. Thank you for using us in ways that are profound and powerful. Glorify your Son in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much for joining me for James chapter 5. Just two more days to go in our three-year journey through the Word of God. We're going to wrap up with Malachi 3 and 4 in the next couple of days. Have a blessed day in the Lord