Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. James chapter 2 is on tap today on day 1080, our 1080th day together. In the Word of God, 16 more to go after today, not that anyone's counting. Okay, I am. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this day. Thank you for your love for us. Thank you for your faithfulness that never fails Father, we ask that you would bless us today as we're in James 2. Teach us your word. Write it on our hearts. We are confronted in James 2 by our sin And our need to repent. So let us not be hard-hearted and self-justifying, but let us be tender-hearted and responsive to your word and your spirit. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, James chapter 2. My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in, and if you pay attention to the one who has fine clothing and say, You sit here in a good place while you say to the poor man, You stand over there, or sit down at my feet. Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers. Has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which he has promised to those who love him But you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich the ones who oppress you and the ones who drag you into court? Are not the ones are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called? If you really fulfil the royal law, according to Scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. For whoever keeps the whole law, but falls in one point, has become guilty of all of it. For he who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not murder. If you do not commit adultery, but you do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will say, You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one, you do well. Even the demons believe and shudder. Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar? You see that faith was active along with his works. And faith was completed by his works, and the scripture that says Abraham believed God, and it was countered to him as righteousness, and he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. And in the same way, was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works? when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way. For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead James chapter 2. Convicting chapter. If you're paying attention at all, if you have a heart, this is a convicting chapter. The first thing we're told is that we are not to be prejudiced or partial at all in how we treat other people If we belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians 1 tells us that God chose the weak things of the world. That God chose the poor in the world, that God chose the foolish in the world to shame the strong, to shame the wise, to shame those who are. And here we get the same message from James. God chooses those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom. Christianity is a gospel message that says you cannot bring anything before God that would count for your behalf, for your salvation. And that is a message that is most offensive To people who are highly educated and well-off and influential in the world, and it is a message that is most naturally welcome to people who are excluded, downtrodden, destitute. And yet, so often within Christianity, within the church, we can think, man, we really need some more giving to fund the building, to fund the programs, to fund the mission. Oh, here's someone who has money. They're coming into the church. That would be great. They would really be able to help us out. And we can treat them as though somehow they're better than someone who is on the verge of homelessness or without a job or whatever. There's other ways, of course, we can show partiality. We can show partiality to people who look like we do, who speak like we do, who think like we do. And we can add into the gospel categories of distinction between those who belong to Christ and those who don't, those who are walking according to the Word of God and those who aren't. We can add into those categories our other man-made categories of People who vote the way we vote, people who think the way we think, people who value the things we value, people who have the same kind of interest as the things we are interested in, people who look like we do go to the same places we go. And that's wrong. The sin of partiality is wrong. Everyone who belongs to the Lord Jesus Christ by faith is my brother and sister. Equally, someone who is a suburban, educated, white Marylander is not more my brother or sister than someone who's none of those things. And someone who is all of those things and yet doesn't belong to Christ is not my brother or sister. The bonds that are created by the blood of Jesus, the bonds that are created. By the waters of baptism and the Lord's Supper are stronger. Christ unites in his body by his Holy Spirit in a way that is stronger than whatever it is that denies us. And this leads to another issue with the sin of partiality, and that is that we need to meet the needs of those who are among us. Sometimes we sort of sh stay away from poorer people and tilt toward people who are better off because we have a feeling that the poorer people are gonna need our help. And we kind of resent that. But we shouldn't resent. We should give. To any brother or sister who's poorly clothed or lacking in daily food, we should give. We should not just say, go in peace, be warmed and filled. But as we are able. As the Lord leads, as we can wisely do so, we should give And this leads to probably the most controversial and highly disputed section of the whole book of James, because James then says faith by itself if it does not have works, is dead. And the last paragraph of chapter 2, James is talking about the fact that if you only have faith, and that faith doesn't lead you to good works then that faith is dead and useless, and that faith does not justify you. Some people have used this section to argue against The biblical Reformation doctrine that we are justified by faith alone. Sola Fide. We are justified before God by God's grace alone, through faith alone, in Jesus Christ alone. That is what the gospel teaches. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9, Romans chapter 4. The Bible teaches this repeatedly. Galatians, the whole book of Galatians. We are not justified by our works. However, not all Claims to faith are equally legitimate or valid. In other words, not everything that we call faith is actually living, active, saving faith. That's what James is getting at here. James is getting at how do you know that you have faith Well, if you say to your brother or sister who's in need, go in peace, be warmed and filled, and yet you do not give them the things that are needed. Have you really shown them love? No, you've just said words. You've just said words. You haven't loved your neighbor as yourself. And likewise, if you say, I believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, but it does not change your life, those are just Words and not real faith. Your faith has to be active has to produce good works. You're not saved by those good works, but you're saved by a true and living and saving faith. that unite you to the Lord Jesus Christ by the work of the Holy Spirit and the same Holy Spirit who unites you to Christ Through that faith will also work the good works in you. You will bear the fruit of the Holy Spirit. You will show yourself to be a follower of God. As the body apart from the spirit is dead, so faith apart from works is dead. If you have a claim to a faith, but that faith isn't doing anything, it is. dead. So there's no contradiction between James and Paul when Paul in Romans 4 and in Ephesians 2 and in Galatians is saying it is faith that justifies, not works. And James is saying here, you're not justified by faith alone. but by a faith that works. I think Paul would say a hearty amen to that. The faith that he's talking about, the justifying faith, is a faith that works, because right after Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, for it is by grace that you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of work, so that no one may boast. Comes verse 10, for we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. So by grace through faith, we are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Don't separate faith and works. They're different as far as trying to be paths of salvation, but they are like. The engine and the cargo car on a train. The engine drives, faith moves, but it pulls behind it the cargo car. If it ain't moving, it's not working, then the engine's dead. And you got a problem. So No partiality. Love not just in word but in deed. And so in this way, show yourself to be someone who doesn't just make a pretense. Of a profession of faith, but has the actual substance of saving faith in your heart. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, our God and King, There is no one like you. You are gracious. You are holy. You are just. There's no other Savior but you. You redeem us by your grace through faith in Jesus, who's done all the work for our salvation. And yet if we belong to Jesus, we will do the works that Jesus has done. And Jesus fed the hungry. Jesus healed the sick. Jesus cared for those who were oppressed. Jesus taught the ignorant Let us walk in his steps as your children who belong to him. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for James chapter 2. We're going to go back to the prophet Zechariah tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.