Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and it is so good to be with you here as we are in James 4 on day 1088. We are coming down the home stretch of this three-year journey through the Word of God. 1096 is our finishing point, so we're just about eight away from that. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to James 4 today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It's perfect. It's complete. It gives us everything we need to for life and godliness. Write it on our hearts that we might love Jesus and follow him more. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. James for what causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. You adulterous people Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says, he who yearns, sorry, he yearns jealously over the Spirit that He made to dwell in us? But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks evil against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law You are not a doer of the law, but a judge. There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit, and yet You do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills We will live and do this or that. As it is, you boast in your arrogance, all such boasting is evil. So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin James is preaching. He's preaching against worldliness. He's preaching against arrogance. He's preaching against judgmentalism. He's preaching against presumption. The book of James very much reads like uh a sermon against the sin in the church. And these things are all, I think they're all connected because they all come out of this root of pride. Worldliness and a lack of faith. Pride in ourselves, a lack of faith in God. Worldliness. Causes fights among us, our passions within us is really the root cause of it. So we want we want what the world has to offer. That's where we covet and we fight and we quarrel. We want what the world has to offer, and we're not trusting God to meet our needs. We need to pray and ask God to meet our needs and be content with how He meets our needs. Pray and ask God to meet our needs and be content with how He meets our needs, not using it to for our own passions, but using it for the glory of God. This is This covetousness, this craving for what the world has. It could be material things, but it could also be prestige. It could also be respect, power, political power. Listen, every there's a sad history in that every institution of higher learning in America that was founded a long time ago as a Christian institution of higher learning has abandoned that and has become secular and in many ways anti-God. This is true in the UK, of Oxford and Cambridge, both of which were Christian universities, but it's also true of Harvard and Yale and Princeton and Brown. All the Ivy Leagues basically were started by churches for training ministers and for teaching Christianity at the highest level to prepare for life. They've all abandoned that. And others have as well. And so what why? Because they wanted something the world had to offer. More influence, more prestige, more respectability, more power, more money, more something. But we're the same way. And James is confronting us and saying, this is actually spiritual adultery. Your friendship with the world. So you're making friends with the world when you want what the world has to offer and you're not trusting God to take care of your needs, and that is spiritual adultery. It's the same thing as the idolatry, the rank idolatry. That we read about in the Old Testament, bowing down to Baal and Asherah. Why'd they bow down to Baal and Asherah? Because Baal and Asherah promised them rain and abundant crops. And we do the same thing. But God loves us. God yearns jealously over the spirit he's made to dwell in us. He wants us to humble ourselves and come to Him. When we see the patterns of worldliness in our own lives, we feel the grumbling discontent and the coveting the things of the world, and we need to repent. We need to hate that. We need to mourn and weep over our sin and draw near to God and submit to God. God and thank God and resist these temptations from the devil, because this worldliness is not spiritually neutral. It's not just our own flesh doing this, it's also Satan tempting us to lead us astray. and to ensnare us and enslave us. It's urgent. The language of James here, it's urgent It's not a casual thing to say, yeah, you know, I I'm kind of materialistic and kind of covetous, and whenever my neighbor gets something, I wish I had it for myself. You know, when my co-worker gets a promotion, I kind of grumble in my spirit that I wish I'd had that promotion myself. No, that is not right. That is worldliness, that is a spiritual adultery It's not pride, because we have a sense of entitlement. It's also a lack of faith. We're not trusting God. Out of the same heart, we tend to judge others. Because when we're grumbly and discontented and wanting what we don't already have, we tend to put one another down and judge one another, condemn one another. No, we can't do that either. We need to be humble, thankful that God by his grace has saved us, saved us? Amazing grace. How sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. And not judge other people though we think we're better than they are. There's only one lawgiver and judge. And he is able to save and destroy. And if he's chosen to save you, praise God. And don't go judging others as if you're better than they are. But be humble and trust the Lord. And in the same way, this last section boasting of what you're going to do. Tomorrow we're going to such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. All of this plotting. Again, it's worldly plotting. It's all about this is what we're going to do. This is how we're going to grow. This is how we're going to accomplish things. No. Say, if the Lord wills. We will try doing this as God blesses. We're going to go in this direction because we're seeking the Lord and it seems like this is an opportunity he's providing, but we're going to seek him, and if he wills, he will bring it about. But if he doesn't His will be done. We don't boast, and we are not arrogant. It's very simple. It's not easy, but it's very simple. God is God, we are not. He gives, we receive. He orders we follow. He promises we trust. He provides we say thank you. That's the attitude that should govern our Christian lives every day. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you're so good to us. You've given us everything in Jesus Christ our Savior. And you are good to us every day with material blessings that we don't deserve. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Give us a humility and a contentment and a joyful gratitude that would allow us to live faithful lives and not worldly lives, not judgmental lives, not boasting lives. Forgive us of these things. Pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for James 4. Tomorrow we're going to go back to Zechariah. Have a blessed day in the Lord.