Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It's our 902nd day in the Word of God, and we come back to the prophet Jeremiah, Jeremiah 25. Jeremiah here is going to be prophesying that there will be 70 years of captivity Which this prophecy is actually going to inspire a prophecy in Daniel chapter 10 about the 70 weeks. And that is picked up in Revelation. And so this is a beginning of a series of prophecies that are very important. And speaking of Revelation, In a couple of days' time, we're going to be starting the book of Revelation. So not tomorrow, tomorrow will be Jeremiah 26, but the day after tomorrow, we're going to be starting Revelation chapter one. So that's coming up, and there will be things we pick up from all the prophets that will come to their uh fulfillment and fruition in in Revelation. Looking forward to that. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for all that you have done for us in Jesus our Savior. Thank you for your word that is full and rich. Faithful, accurate, clear. Help us to understand it. Ready us to receive, to believe, to respond by your grace and for your glory in Jesus' name Amen. Jeremiah twenty-five. The word that came to Jeremiah concerning the people of Judah in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, which was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah. and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. For twenty-three years, from the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amun, king of Judah, to this day The word of the Lord has come to me, and I have spoken persistently to you, but you have not listened. You have neither listened nor inclined your ears to hear, although the Lord persistently sent to you all his servants, the prophets, saying, Turn now, every one of you, from his evil way and evil deeds, and dwell upon the land that the Lord has given to you and your fathers from of old and forever Do not go after other gods to serve and worship them, or provoke me to anger with the work of your hands, then I will do you no harm. Yet you have not listened to me, declares the Lord, that you might provoke me to anger with the work of your hands to your own harm. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, because you have not obeyed my words. Behold, I will send for all the tribes of the north, declares the Lord. and for Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant, and I will bring them against this land and its inhabitants, and against all these surrounding nations, I will devote them to destruction. And make them a horror, a hissing, and an everlasting desolation. Moreover, I will banish them I will banish from them the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the grinding of the millstones, and the light of the lamp. This whole land shall become a ruin and a waste, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years. Then after seventy years are completed, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, the land of the Chaldeans. for their iniquity, declares the Lord, making the land an everlasting waste, I will bring upon that land all the words that I have uttered against it, everything written in this book, which Jeremiah prophesied against all the nations, for many nations and great kings, shall make slaves even of them, and I will recompense them according to their deeds and the work of their hands. Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, said to me, Take from my hand this cup of the wine of wrath, and make all the nations to whom I send you drink it They shall drink and stagger and be crazed, because of the sword that I am sending among them. So I took the cup from the Lord's hand, and made all the nations to whom the Lord sent me drink it. Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, its kings and officials, to make them a desolation and a waste, a hissing and a curse. as at this day, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, his servants, his officials, all his people, and all the mixed tribes among them all the kings of the land of Uz, and all the kings of the land of the Philistines, Ashkelon, Gaza Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod, Edom, Moab, the sons of Ammon All the kings of Tyre, all the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the coastland across the sea, Dedon, Timah, Buzz, and all who cut the corners of their hair all the kings of Arabia, and all the kings of the mixed tribes who dwell in the desert, all the kings of Zimri, all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of Media All the kings of the north, far and near, one after another, and all the kingdoms of the world that are on the face of the earth, and after them the king of Babylon shall drink. Then you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, drink and be drunk, and vomit. Fall and rise no more, because of the sword that I am sending among you And if they refuse to accept the cup from your hand to drink, then you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord of hosts, you must drink. For behold, I begin to work disaster at the city that is called by my name, and shall you go unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, for I am summoning a sword against all the inhabitants of the earth declares the Lord of hosts. You therefore shall prophesy against them all these words and say to them, The Lord will roar. from on high, and from his holy habitation utter his voice. He will roar mightily against his fold and shout Like those who tread grapes against all the inhabitants of the earth, the clamor will resound to the ends of the earth, for the Lord has an indictment against the nations. He is entering into judgment with all flesh, and all the wicked he will put to the sword, declares the Lord Thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold, disaster is going forth from nation to nation, and a great tempest is stirring from the farthest parts of the earth And those pierced by the Lord on that day shall extend from one end of the earth to the other. They shall not be lamented or gathered or buried. They shall be dung on the surface of the ground. Wail, you shepherds, and cry out, and roll in ashes, you lords of the flock. For the days of your slaughter and dispersion have come, and you shall fall like a choice vessel. No refuge will remain for the shepherds, nor escape for the lords of the flock. a voice, the cry of the shepherds, and the wail of the lords of the flock, for the Lord is laying waste their pasture, and the peaceful folds are devastated because of the fierce anger of the Lord. Like a lion, he has left his lair, for their land has become a waste, because of the sword of the oppressor, and because of his fierce anger. That is Jeremiah 25, a powerful word from the Lord that shows that He is the sovereign Lord of all of history over all the nations of the earth. I've got a new water glass. I just got this pint glass at General Assembly. It's Covenant. I love it 'cause it got the one tree. If you read Romans eleven, uh backbone of covenant theology, it talks about the one tree and we're all grafted into that with with the root being the covenant promises made to Abraham. Anyway, Jeremiah twenty-five. At the beginning we're given the exact date. of this prophecy. It's the fourth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah. That's about the year 605 BC. And he says that he's been prophesying, Jeremiah's been prophesying for 23 years now, from the thirteenth year of Josiah, son of Amon, king of Judah, to this day. Twenty-three years of prophecy, twenty-three years of preaching, hard words, bitter words, difficult words, the burden of the Lord weighing on him, the oracles of God, the prophecies, and The people did not hear. Jeremiah wept, Jeremiah pleaded, Jeremiah threatened. The Lord was speaking through him. They did not listen, they did not incline their ears to hear, although the Lord persistently sent to you all his servants, the prophets. It wasn't just Jeremiah, but there were others who were prophesying at the same time. And so God gives a very specific word. They're going to go away. They're going to be devastated. They're going to be captive. They're going to be defeated. This is the first year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign as King of Babylon. And we do know from history that in that first year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, He came and he sacked Jerusalem. He defeated Jerusalem. He carried off people captive. That's the beginning of the Babylonian captivity. Now, it would be another 20 years almost before the final destruction of Jerusalem in 586, but the Babylonian exile begins in the first year of Nebuchadnezzar. And the Lord says it's going to be 70 years. After 70 years are completed, I will punish the king of Babylon Persia conquered Babylon around 539 BC. Pretty close to 70 years. Our exact dating of ancient things is depending upon a lot of the different factors, but it's right around 70 years. So here it is the very first year of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. And in this chapter, we see that God says Babylon's going to conquer everybody. Later the cup of the Lord's wrath is being sent around to all these different surrounding tribes. The Lord has said in the very first year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, is going to be the instrument of God's wrath, and he's going to pour out the wrath. On all of these people, not only Judah and Jerusalem, but all these surrounding nations, Philistines, Edomites, Midianites Tribes in the desert. And all you have to do is look at a map of the Babylonian Empire, the Neo-Babylonian Empire under Nebuchadnezzar, and it did indeed conquer all of those nations within just a few years. But then the Lord says something even more astounding, and that is, after 70 years, it's going to be time for Babylon to drink the cup of God's wrath. Because many nations and great kings shall make slaves of them. And it was an alliance of the Medes and the Persians who brought in several other nations who combined together and who took down Babylon. And Babylon was indeed devastated. and enslaved. This great city, this great power. So God predicts this 70-year arch of history, the rise and fall of Babylon the Great, all within 70 years, and the Lord foretells it all. What does that mean? Well, it obviously means that the Lord is the sovereign Lord of all history and of all nations. He's not just the God of Jerusalem and the God of Judah to rule over them and protect them. He's not just the God of the Christians and the God of those who call upon his name. He's the God over all creation, heaven and earth. The whole universe, the whole of humanity, every nation, tribe, people, and tongue, all of human history, the Lord is sovereign over it all, and the very simple thing Two things that means. One, we can trust him, and two, we must heed his word. The problem that Jerusalem and Judah got into is because they would not heed the word of the Lord. They refused, and they went after idols, the idols of the nations. The idols of the nations are nothing. The Lord alone is God. We must trust him and we must heed his word. That word has come into the world in the form of Jesus Christ, the Word of God made flesh, and he sits now at God's right hand as King of kings and Lord of Lords as the sovereign, omnipotent ruler over all the nations. He's not seen, he's not acknowledged, he's not honored. But just as surely as Yahweh reigned over all these nations, even though they didn't honor him, even though they didn't acknowledge him, he reigned over them. So today King Jesus reigns over all the nations. One day he will come back and will be openly acknowledged. But he reigns even now. We'll see some of that in Revelation when we begin into after tomorrow. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your word, powerful, living, active, true. Thank you for the word of God made flesh and the Lord Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, and our King. Give us the grace to trust you to heed your word to follow you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen Amen. Well tomorrow we are going to go on to Jeremiah 26. I hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.