Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And on our 903rd day, together in the Word of God, we come to Jeremiah 26. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, living and active, true and faithful. You are the faithful God. This is your word, and you always keep your word And we can always trust your word. So please write your word on our hearts and give us the faith to trust in you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Jeremiah 26. In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came from the Lord. Thus says the Lord, Stand in the court of the Lord's house and speak to all the cities of Judah that come to worship in the house of the Lord, all the words that I command you to speak to them. Do not hold back a word. It may be they will listen, and every one will turn from his evil way, that I may relent of the disaster that I intend to do to them because of their evil deeds. You shall say to them, Thus says the Lord If you will not listen to me, to walk in my law that I have set before you, and to listen to the words of my servants, the prophets, whom I send to you urgently, though you have not listened Then I will make this house like Shiloh, and I will make this city a curse for all the nations of the earth The priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of the Lord. And when Jeremiah had finished speaking, all that the Lord had commanded him to speak to all the people Then the priests and the prophets and the people laid hold of him, saying, You shall die Why have you prophesied in the name of the Lord, saying, This house shall be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate without inhabitant? And all the people gathered around Jeremiah in the house of the Lord. When the officials of Judah heard these things, they came up from the king's house to the house of the Lord, and took their seat in the entry of the new gate of the house of the Lord. Then the priests and the prophets said to the officials and to all the people, This man deserves the sentence of death, because he has prophesied against this city, and you have heard with your own ears. Then Jeremiah spoke to all the officials and to all the people, saying, The Lord sent me to prophesy against this house and this city, all the words you have heard. Now therefore mend your ways and your deeds, and obey the voice of the Lord your God, and the Lord will relent. of the disaster that he has pronounced against you. But as for me, behold, I am in your hands. Do with me as seems good and right to you. Only know for certain that if you put me to death You will bring innocent blood upon yourselves and upon this city and its inhabitants, for in truth the Lord sent me to speak to you all these words in your ears. Then the officials and all the people said to the priests and the prophets, This man does not deserve the sentence of death, for he has spoken to us in the name of the Lord our God And certain of the elders of the land arose and spoke to all the assembled people, saying, Micah of Morasheth, prophesied in the days of Hezekiah, king of Judah. And said to all the people of Judah, Thus says the Lord of hosts, Zion shall be plowed as a field, Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins. And the mountain of the Lord say and the mountain of the house, a wooded height. Did Hezekiah, king of Judah, and all Judah put him to death? Did he not fear the Lord and entreat the favor of the Lord? And did not the Lord relent of the disaster that he had pronounced against them? But we are about to bring great disaster upon ourselves. There was another man who prophesied in the name of the Lord, Uriah the son of Shemiah, from Kiriath Jiram. He prophesied against the city and against the land in words like those of Jeremiah. And when King Jehoiakim With all his warriors and all the officials heard his words, the king sought to put him to death, but when Uriah heard of it, he was afraid and fled and escaped to Egypt. Then King Jehoiakim sent to Egypt certain men, El Nathan, the son of Akbor, and others with him, and they took Uriah from Egypt. and brought him to King Jehoiakim, who struck him down with the sword, and dumped his dead body on the burial place of the common people. But the hand of Ahikim, the son of Shephan was with Jeremiah, so that he was not given over to the people to be put to death. Well, here we see that faithful men of God Who speak the Word of God with clarity and conviction are always celebrated and praised and thanked by the people of God. Right? Hmm. If only that were the case. But it's not. Sadly, truly, very often the people who are most clear, most direct, most open, most faithful in speaking the word of God are most shunned, most rejected, most despised, even by the people of God, not to mention the nations. People don't want to hear what they don't want to hear. They can profess to be believers. They can profess to belong to the Lord, they can say all the right things, but when they're called out for their idolatry directly, when they're told that judgment will come upon them for their idolatry they tend to not take that well and to react against it and to want to put that person out of their sight. The word of the Lord is coming through Jeremiah because the Lord wants his people to repent. And he says that if they repent, if they listen, if they turn back from their evil way, I may relent of the disaster that I intend to do to them because of their evil deeds. Earlier in the days of Hezekiah, we had this quote, this powerful thing, this is a remarkable quote from Micah. Verse 19, Micah of Morasheth prophesied in the days of Hezekiah, king of Judah. This is a quote directly, Micah 3. 12. Zion shall be plowed as a field, Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins, the mountain of the house of wooded height. This is Micah the prophet Micah 3. 12, it's being prophesied here. That was 715 to about 687, so it was about 100 years prior to this. So like someone quoting someone from the early 1900s. This is history. And Hezekiah heard the word of the Lord. Hezekiah re uh sought the Lord's favor And the kingdom of Assyria, the great Assyrian Empire, it swallowed up all the same areas that Babylon's going to be swallowing up, but it never was able to swallow up Judah. Judah remained an island of freedom in the midst of the vast Assyrian Empire because the Lord is able to save and to spare. And that's why he's calling his people to repent. He's calling his people to repent that he might relent, but they're not going to repent. And instead, they get to the verge of wanting to kill Jeremiah. They take their seat. The officials, the rulers, the people who are supposed to be over God's people for good, they're taking their seat. In the place of justice, the entry of the new gate of the house of the Lord. So in the place of God's appointed justice, God's appointed officials proclaim Injustice. This man deserves the sentence of death because he has prophesied against this city as you have heard with your own ears. Verse 11 Injustice coming from those who were sworn to uphold justice in the place where the Lord appointed for justice to be done. It's terrible. It's horrible. But Jeremiah is not afraid. He says, it's the Lord who sent me to prophesy. I've said what the Lord told me to say. So, mend your ways and your deeds. Obey the voice of the Lord. As for me, I'm in your hands. Do with me as seems right to you. Jeremiah is not afraid. He's not going to back down. He's not going to say, I'm sorry, you're right. I'll be quiet. Because remember earlier in the book he had said, when I try to be quiet, the word of God is like a fire shut up in my bones. He can't be quiet. He must speak the truth And the Lord spares him, because the Lord is able to keep his own. The call today for us, I think, is very clear. We must speak the truth in love. Remember, Jeremiah loved the people of God, loved Jerusalem. He wasn't being arrogant, he wasn't being haughty, he wasn't being snarky, he wasn't being See, I told you so. He's being earnest and honest and loving, but he spoke the word of God clearly, and we must speak the word of God clearly and lovingly and directly. And then we say Do what you're going to do. I would urge you to repent and to heed the word of the Lord. But do to me whatever you want to do and trust the Lord to take care of us. Trust the Lord to take care of us. of us. Let's pray. Father, make us faithful, faithful ambassadors for Christ who speak the truth in love and accept whatever consequences you have ordained for us. Because it will be through your sovereign hand, as we saw yesterday, that you're the sovereign over all the nations. Just as you protected Jeremiah, you could protect us. But just as you chose not to protect Uriah in this passage from being put to death, so you may not protect us from being rejected, despised, hated, ostracized, shunned. May we be faithful no matter what comes. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 26. Tomorrow we're beginning the book of Revelation. I hope you can join me for that. And of course, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.