Good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome. We are in our 882nd day together And we are in Jeremiah chapter twelve, a different kind of chapter for Jeremiah, because Jeremiah is now not bringing the Lord's complaint against the people, but he's bringing his own complaint before the Lord about the people and their treatment of him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we as your children are given an open invitation to come before you and to pour out our hearts before you, to cast our cares upon you, knowing that you care for us. Speak to us today through Jeremiah chapter 12 and teach us how to pray. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Jeremiah chapter 12. So a little bit of background before I read. Remember, yesterday we were in chapter 11, and at the very end of chapter 11, there was this conspiracy among the men of Anatol who are seeking the life of Jeremiah. and forbidding him from prophesying. And the Lord says he's going to punish them. I think that's the background here because when the men of your own hometown, of your own tribe, of your own people, are seeking to kill you and telling you, don't prophesy, Wow, that can be hard. And Jeremiah has a hard ministry. It's going to get worse for him because of the people in in Jerusalem and Judah and Anathoth. So let's read now, Jeremiah twelve. Righteous are you, O Lord, when I complain to you. Yet I would plead my cause, my case before you. Why does the way of the wicked prosper? Why do all who are treacherous thrive? You plant them, and they take root, they grow, and produce fruit. You are near in their mouth and far from their heart But you, O Lord, know me. You see me and test my heart toward you. Put them out like sheep for the slaughter, for the Set them apart for the day of slaughter. How long will the land mourn and the grass of every field wither? For the evil of those who dwell in it, the beasts, and the birds are swept away because they said, He will not see our latter end. If you have raced with men on foot, and they have wearied you, how will you compete with horses? And if in a safe land you are so trusting, what will you do in the thicket of the Jordan? For even your brothers and the house of your father, even they have dealt treacherously with you. They are in full cry after you. Do not believe them. Though they speak friendly words to you, I have forsaken my house, I have abandoned my heritage, I have given the beloved of my soul into the hands of her enemies. My heritage has become to me like a lion in the forest. She has lifted up her voice against me, therefore I hate her. Is my heritage to me like a hyena's lair? Are the birds of prey against her all around? Go, assemble all the wild beasts, bring them to devour many shepherds have destroyed my vineyard. They have trampled down my portion. They have made my pleasant portion a desolate wilderness. They have made it a desolation, desolate, it mourns to me. The whole land is made desolate, but no man lays it to heart Upon all the bare heights in the desert, destroyers have come. For the sword of the Lord devours from one end of the land to the other, no flesh has peace. They have sown wheat and have reaped thorns. They have tired themselves out that profit nothing. They shall be ashamed of their harvests because of the fierce anger of the Lord. Thus says the Lord concerning all my evil neighbors, who touch the heritage that I have given my people Israel to inherit. Behold I will pluck them up from their land. And I will pluck up the house of Judah from among them. And after I have plucked them up, I will again have compassion on them And I will bring them again, each to his heritage, and each to his land, and it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people to swear by my name as the Lord lives, even as they have taught my people to swear by Baal, Then they will be built up in the midst of my people. But if any nation will not listen, then I will utterly pluck it up and destroy it, declares the Lord. So there's really three parts to this. There's Jeremiah's complaint, there's the Lord's response and his threat of judgment, and then there's the Lord's promise of adjustment. So here is Jeremiah's complaint. First of all, he declares that the Lord is righteous. The Lord is correct. whenever Jeremiah complains before him. And so he comes before him and he asks a simple question. Why are the wicked and the treacherous, even among God's own people, why are the wicked and the treacherous prospering and thriving? They seem to just be flourishing. Why is that? And he says, these people are hypocrites. They draw an ear with their mouth, they're far from their heart. They're far from God in their heart, and yet Jeremiah says, I love you. I am You, Lord, know me. You see me and test my heart toward you. That means I love you. You test my heart toward you. Their heart, far from you. My heart toward you. And so how long will these evil people prosper? And the Lord's answer is very puzzling, very challenging. He says this thing about if you've raced with men on foot and they've wearied you, how will you compete with horses? Jordan. That's where the worst predators, the worst and deadliest animals would hide, is in the thicket of the Jordan. Here, in relative safety, in Anathoth in Jerusalem, among the people of Judah. Jeremiah is being threatened by his own relatives. God says, don't be trusting to them. You think it's hard here now? Because of their sin, the Lord says, I'm gonna bring something way worse I'm going to bring the Babylonians, I'm going to bring something way, way worse, because I have forsaken my heritage, abandoned my house, given the blood of my soul into the hand of our enemies, because they're so wicked Because they're so idolatrous. Verse 9, when he talks about the hyenas and the birds of prey. And the wild beasts, these are references to Babylon who's going to come and devour. And why? Because the shepherds, the shepherds That is, the priests and the prophets and the kings who were supposed to be protecting and providing for God's people, what have they done? They've destroyed the vineyard, they've trampled down the portion, they've turned The beautiful inheritance of the Lord into a desolate wilderness. And so God says He's bringing disaster upon them. But then he gives a threat to the evil neighbors who touch the heritage of the Lord He says, just because I'm using you basically to judge my people, don't you get complacent, because after I pluck them up, I will have compassion on them, and I will bring them back into the land. And if they will learn the ways of the Lord and his people, if they will swear by my name as the Lord lives, instead of swearing by these false gods. But ale is a sort of generic term for lords or gods that that would include a lot of different idols. God says he's going to have compassion. Because what he really wants for his people is repentance and faith. So how do we take this Well, there are times when even among professing Christians, even among God's people, as we would identify them, there can be faithlessness. There can be idolatry. There can be gossip and backstabbing. There can be unfair mistreatment. We need to realize that we need to trust the Lord in all things. We don't ever need to put all of our trust in people because people are ultimately untrustworthy. And we need to seek the Lord and trust in him. And there are consequences for idolatry, and there are consequences for treachery And if the church, if people who call themselves Christians are worldly and idolatrous and gossiping and backbiting and treacherous, they will suffer the consequences. So whether that's prosperity gospel preachers who are peddling a false gospel or political uh animals who are stalking God's people wanting to devour them for politics and worldliness or scam artists or or hucksters or whatever. I've seen them, you've seen them. It's frustrating. And sometimes even within local churches, we can deal with people who are dishonest and two-faced and backstabbing. God will judge. God knows hearts. God knows whose hearts are his. And God will discipline his people. He will also know how to protect his people. And even if we suffer, he will be good to restore us in his own due time. And so really The conclusion for Jeremiah, as well as the conclusion for all of us, is, yeah, hold on tight. Life in this world is not easy and it's not always going to be fair But continue to trust God who is righteous and who is just and who does bring judgment, but who will also have compassion and who will restore his people who truly seek him. When we are guilty of idolatry, worldliness, two-faced behavior, we need to repent, seek reconciliation right away When we see it in others, we need to trust God for the outcome. Let's pray. Father, thank you for loving us, for being with us, for being for us. For your kindness toward us, for your salvation of us. You're good. And we need you. And it's good to know that there is someone we can trust in this world. It's you. Thank you. Guard us, guide us, grow us by your grace and for your glory in Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, that's Jeremiah chapter 12. Tomorrow we're going to actually continue in the Psalms of Ascents. Remember those? We were in them a while ago. We're going to come back to them with three Psalms on tap for tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.