Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Florest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you as we are getting into our 915th day together in the Word of God, and uh I'm here on vacation in the North Georgia Mountains of Lake Blue Ridge. And uh it's good to be with you as we're in Jeremiah 34. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, which is truth. For your love, which is strong, and for your faithfulness, which is our hope steadfast, day by day. Please speak to us through your word today. Please write it on our hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Jeremiah chapter 34. Zedekiah gets uh not so pleasant news The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord when Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and all his army, and all the kingdoms of the earth under his dominion, and all the peoples were fighting against Jerusalem and all of its cities. Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, go and speak to Zedekiah, king of Judah, and say to him, Thus says the Lord: Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon and he shall burn it with the fire. You shall not escape from his hand, but shall surely be captured and delivered into his hand. You shall see the king of Babylon, eye to eye, and speak with him face to face. And you shall go to Babylon. Yet hear the word of the Lord, O Zedekiah, king of Judah, thus says the Lord concerning you. You shall not die by the sword, you shall die in peace. And as spices were burned for your fathers the former kings who were before you, so people shall burn spices for you, and lament for you, saying, Alas, Lord, for I have spoken the word, declares the Lord. Then Jeremiah the prophet spoke all these words to Zedekiah, King of Judah, in Jerusalem, when the army of the king of Babylon was fighting against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of Judah that were left, Lachish and Azekah, for these were the only fortified cities of Judah that remained. The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, after King Zedekiah made a covenant with all the people of Jerusalem, to make a proclamation of liberty to them, that every one should set free his Hebrew slaves, male and female. So that no one should enslave a Jew, his brother. And they obeyed all the officials and all the people who had entered into the covenant, that every one would set free his slave, male or female, so that they would not be enslaved again They obeyed and set them free. But afterward, they turned around and took back the male and female slaves they had set free and brought them into subjugation as slaves. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah from the Lord. Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: I myself made a covenant with your fathers when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery, saying, At the end of seven years, each of you must set free the fellow Hebrew who had been sold to you and has served you six years. You must set him free from your service But your fathers did not listen to me, or incline their ears to me. You recently repented and did what was right in my eyes by proclaiming liberty each to his neighbor, and you made a covenant before me in the house that is called by my name But then you turned around and profaned my name when each of you took back his male and female slaves whom you had set free according to their desire, and you brought them into subjection to be your slaves. Therefore, thus says the Lord, you have not obeyed me by proclaiming liberty every one to his neighbor, to his brother. Behold, I proclaim to you liberty, to the sword, to pestilence, and to famine, declares the Lord. I will make you a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth And the men who transgressed my covenant and did not keep the terms of the covenant that they made before me, I will make them like the calf that they cut in two and pass between its parts. The officials of Judah, the officials of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, the priests, and all the people of the land who passed through the parts of the calf, and I will give them into the hand of their enemies. And into the hand of those who seek their lives, their dead bodies shall be food for the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth And Zedekiah, king of Judah, and his officials, I will give into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their lives, into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon, which has withdrawn from you. Behold, I will command, declares the Lord, and will bring them back to the city, and they will fight against it, and take it, and burn it with fire. I will make the cities of Judah a desolation without inhabitants That's Jeremiah 34. Two obvious main parts to this passage. One is the prophecy against Zedekiah, in a sense that he's going to be taken off into Babylon and he's going to see the king of Babylon face to face. And that he's going to die there, but there is mercy there. In judgment, remember mercy. That should be our prayer often before the Lord Because the Lord is holy and he does judge, but in his mercy and his steadfast love for his own, he does remember mercy. And so Zedekiah is told, you're not going to get out of this. You know, there's thoughts of escaping to Egypt. You're not going to escape to Egypt. You're not going to get out of this. You're going to be captured. The city's going to be laid waste, and you yourself personally will be taken off into Babylon Now, you will see the king of Babylon eye to eye in verse three is a mercy. But After he sees the king of Babylon eye to eye, his sons are slain before his eyes, and then his eyes are put out. Nevertheless, he does die in peace, which is more than he deserves. Zedekiah if he's not been obedient, he's not been responsive, he's always looked for how to get Jeremiah out of the way, how to turn to the false prophets. So God is giving him so much better than he deserves, and he will be remembered by his people, who will burn spices for him, and who will say, Alas, Lord, if they lament for him. So this is the word that came. Now, what also happened during this period of time when, again, the army of Babylon, largest, most powerful army in the world, largest, most powerful army in the history of the world to this point. It is making war on everybody. There's only there's only two cities left, Lakish and Azika. They're the only two cities that are left besides Jerusalem. It's it's coming. The noose is tightening. And yes, a hundred and Some years earlier, 120 years earlier, the Lord had delivered Jerusalem out of the hands of the king of Assyria, but that's not going to happen this time. It was in Isaiah's day, and Isaiah had promised that It's not going to happen this time. Well, in the midst of this context, the people decide finally that they're going to obey the Lord. Why did they decide this? Well, Zedekiah was the one who initiated it. Perhaps he thinks that if they are obedient to the Lord in something that is difficult for them, something that is costly for them, then God will relent on the judgment that he's going to send against them. Perhaps they can catch a break. But it's really pathetic what they do. Zedekiah has all of the people who are in Jerusalem who have slaves. to set them free, male, female, because in the law it was written that you could only keep a Hebrew slave for six years and in the seventh year they had to go free. Every seven years every Hebrew slave who was taken uh into slavery should have been set free, but they didn't do it. They never did it. Some people some people criticize the Bible and one of the things they say is, um, well, why didn't Why didn't the Lord ban slavery? Why didn't He outlaw slavery? Why does He allow slavery? Is God pro-slavery? God is not pro-slavery. The tenor the tone, the the heart of God from beginning to end, very beginning in Genesis 1, where he makes all people equal in his image, male and female, he creates them in the image of God. He is against slavery. But he's trying to give his people a law that is that is livable that that they will follow. They don't They don't even follow the law give God gives them. How much more impossible would it be if God had said to them entirely, no slavery at all, especially when they live in a context where all the surrounding nations have slaves and they they take prisoners in war and keep them as slaves for life. So so the limitations that God set, every seven years Hebrew slaves need to be set free. Every fifty years all slaves need to be set free. They didn't follow that. They didn't follow either one of those things. They didn't give this land its Sabbath rest every seven years. They didn't set free the slaves every the Hebrew slaves every seven years. And they never, as far as we know, they never kept the year of Jubilee every fifty years, like all slaves. are released, all debts are forgiven, all land is restored. So if they weren't going to follow that, how could God have given them a law that said absolutely no slavery is we try to just see un un untenable. So God is accommodating himself to the weakness of his people, and Jesus gives us that information in the New Testament, like with Moses' certificate of divorce rule. He says God was accommodating to the weakness of the people. God's not pro-divorce any more than he's pro-slavery. He hates divorce. Now there are circumstances in which it is okay to to be divorced, but God love God hates God loves divorce, God loves marriage, God hates slavery, God loves freedom. So they go into this sham, this total sham, where they set their people free, but then they turn right around. And then they did the full covenant ceremony. They cut the animals in two. They laid them out. Genesis 15 gives us a description of this when God makes his covenant with Abraham. Cut the animals in two, make a bloody pathway, go through. And what you're doing when you walk through that pathway is, if I break this covenant, may this be done to me. It's a self-imprecatory oath. If I break this covenant, may this be done to me. And so God says it will be done. To the sword, to pestilence, and to famine, I will set you free. I love the irony here in God's language. You proclaimed liberty, and it was a trick. Here's my liberty, liberty to the sword, to pestilence, and to famine. And what you took upon yourself as an oath, I will do to you. This is serious. Sin is serious. Sin has serious and uh eternal consequences. And yet God is merciful. God does point out the sin of his people so that they can repent. But they don't repent. Ultimately, Jesus himself would come and would take the curse of covenant breaking upon himself. He would become sin for us. He would be crushed. for our transgressions and for our iniquities, as the one who sets us free, not a freedom to the sword and the famine and a pestilence, even though That's what we deserve too for our unfaithful hearts. But he sets us free to be children of God, to enjoy the freedom of the children of God by grace. By mercy. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are so good. You love us more than we could ever imagine. You are more gracious to us than we even realize. We thank you for Jesus, our Savior, who became a curse for us that we might be blessed forever. We pray that you would grant us true repentance from the sins that are in our lives. That we might honor you, not because we're trying to earn your salvation, but because we've been set free from slavery to sin. We've been set free to be obedient children. So let us walk in that freedom, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's Jeremiah 34. Tomorrow we're going to be back in Revelation, picking up Revelation chapter 4. Have a blessed day in the Lord.