Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 881st day together in the Word of God, and we are back in the prophet Jeremiah. We come now to Jeremiah chapter 11. Let's pray. Pray. Heavenly Father, your word is truth. We are your people by your grace. We are gathered here by your sovereign appointment that we might spend time thinking about, meditating on, learning from your word. We need your Holy Spirit to come and be our teacher. We need you to write your word on our hearts. We need you to build us up in Christ. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah chapter eleven. The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord Hear the words of this covenant, and speak to the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, Cursed be the man Who does not hear the words of this covenant that I commanded your fathers when I brought them out of the land of Egypt from the iron furnace, saying, Listen to my voice, and do all that I command you So shall you be my people, and I will be your God, that I may confirm the oath that I swore to your fathers, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as at this day Then I answered, So be it, Lord. And the Lord said to me, Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. Hear the words of this covenant and do them. For I solemnly warned your fathers when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, warning them persistently, even to this day, saying, Obey my voice Yet they did not obey or incline their ear, but everyone walked in the stubbornness of his evil heart. Therefore I brought upon them all the words of this covenant. which I commanded them to do, but they did not. Again the Lord said to me, A conspiracy exists among the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, they have turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, who refused to hear my words. They have gone after other gods to serve them. The house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant that I made with their fathers. Therefore, thus says the Lord, Behold, I am bringing disaster upon them that they cannot escape, though they cry to me. I will not listen to them. Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and cry to the gods to whom they make offerings, but they cannot save them in their time of trouble. For your gods have become as many as your cities, O Judah, and as many as the streets of Jerusalem are the altars that you have set up to shame, altars to make offerings to Baal. Therefore do not pray for this people or lift up a cry or prayer on their behalf, for I will not listen when they call to me in the time of trouble. when she has done many vile deeds. Can even sacrificial flesh avert your doom? Can you then exalt The Lord once called you a green olive tree, beautiful with good fruit. But with the roar of a great tempest, he will set fire to it, and its branches will be consumed. The Lord of hosts, who planted you, has decreed disaster against you because of the evil that the house of Israel and the house of Judah have done. provoking me to anger by making offerings to Baal. The Lord made it known to me, and I knew Then you showed me their deeds, but I was like a gentle lamb. I led to the slaughter. I did not know it was against me they devised schemes saying, Let us destroy the tree with its fruit, let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his name be remembered no more. But you O Lord of hosts, who judges righteously, who tests the heart and the mind, let me see your vengeance upon them, for to you I have committed my cause. Therefore, thus says the Lord, concerning the men of Anathoth, who seek your life, and say, Do not prophesy in the name of the Lord, or you will die by our hand. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold, I will punish them. The young men shall die by the sword, their sons and their daughters shall die by famine, and none of them shall be left, for I will bring disaster Upon the men of Anathoth the year of their punishment. This is Jeremiah chapter eleven in the ESV And the theme, as the heading says here, this first part, the largest part of Jeremiah 11, is this broken covenant. So I want to talk about this covenant theology. And the old covenant, the new covenant, the covenant made under Moses, the covenant fulfilled in Christ, and how they all fit together. In the Bible, there's a series of covenants that are revealed as God's way of dealing with his people. God enters into a relationship with his people. And he requires things of them and he makes promises to them. He sets up every one of these covenant relationships by grace, by his own sovereign grace, by by choosing Right, to to have a people for himself. At the heart of all of these covenants is the idea that God will have a people for himself And he will be their God. The first covenant made was made with Adam in the Garden of Eden. And he broke that covenant. And that is the covenant of works, we call it sometimes, or the covenant of life, or simply the Adamic covenant. And while that covenant isn't explicitly spelled out in Scripture, it's very clear what was involved. God gave Adam life by his grace. commanded him not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and blessed him with fruitfulness, multiplication, filling the earth and doing it, so that he would be, he and his descendants would be the people of God. That covenant having been broken, the Lord brought judgment upon the earth. And then God gave a second covenant, the covenant with Noah, the Noahic covenant. Which establishes regular patterns of seasons, spares the world from a cataclysmic natural disaster that would wipe out all of human life. And establishes, re-establishes man as made in God's image and blessed to be fruitful and multiplied. That's a universal covenant. It's made with all people. And then we get into the specific redemptive covenant Beginning with the covenant of Abraham. When God calls Abraham by his sovereign grace, again he calls him. Abraham hasn't done anything in particular to earn God's favor or deserve God's notice, but God chooses him, God calls him. And God tells him, I'm going to be your God, you're going to be my people, I'm going to bless you, I'm going to multiply you, and through your offspring all the nations of earth shall be blessed. And that's the that is A redemptive covenant. That is a covenant where God says, I'm going to redeem a people for myself, blessing them through the offspring of Abraham. And then we get the Mosaic covenant, the Moses covenant, which has the law, which shows God's holy standard. But also has within that law pictures of redemption in the Passover Lamb, in the Day of Atonement, in the sacrifices, in the high priest. In in in the tabernacle in the temple itself, we have a a legal framework for the covenant, but but it's redemptive at its very heart because it's pointing us forward ultimately to Christ. Now, God's people broke that covenant. The sure sign that they broke the covenant was that no sooner had God written the Ten Commandments on tablets of stone with his own hand than Moses came down from the mountain, saw the people of God breaking the commandments And he threw the tablets down and they shattered on Mount Sinai. That was the outward symbol of this reality that because of people's sin, that covenant is broken. And then the Davidic covenant. David was promised by God, someone from your line is going to sit on the throne forever. And he was also promised, if your sons obey me, I'll bless them, but if they disobey me, I'll discipline them. And of course People broke that covenant too. All the descendants of David were unworthy kings until Jesus came. Jesus comes to fulfill all the covenants as one covenant of grace in himself. He is the second Adam who reverses the curse of the fall of the first Adam. Adam, he is the ark of refuge to save us from the disastrous judgment of God. He is the one who fulfills the law of Moses in all of its aspects in himself as prophet, priest, and king, as sacrifice and righteousness, and he fulfills the Davidic covenant as the true son of David. And all of the fulfillment of all of these covenants is known as the New Covenant. Which we will get to later in the book of Jeremiah, but first we have to deal with the fact that God's people have broken this covenant. Why did they break the covenant? Because they were sinful. There wasn't anything wrong with the covenant itself, but the people are sinful. And people, mere human beings. Children of Adam, born with sinful natures, born spiritually dead, cannot keep the covenant of God. of his evil heart, therefore I brought upon them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do, but they did not. The command the covenant had requirements, stipulations, and punishments for breaking it. And they broke it. And they broke it. And the fact that they broke the covenant showed that they needed someone who could come and bring a covenant that would be kept in such a way that it doesn't depend upon weak, fallible, sinful human beings to make it a reality. The new covenant, fulfilled in Christ, takes the iniquities, takes the idolatries, takes the unfaithfulness of God's elect people, puts them all on Christ So that he bears the ultimate punishment that we deserve, and we get the blessings Now, what's clear from Jeremiah 11 is that not everyone who is in a covenant relationship with God In other words, they're part of the community of God's people that has received these promises and has received this this uh relationship with God, these promises, these regulations. Not everyone who is in covenant with God is actually a redeemed child of God. Because here you have the covenant people of God, and they're worshiping idols, and Jeremiah is told, do not pray for this people. I will not listen when they call to me, even though he calls them my beloved. Because not all, Romans 9 explains it this way, not all are Israel, who are of Israel. In other words, not all the children of Abraham, not all the descendants of Isaac, the child of promise, are all children of promise. So there are those who are in covenant with God but are not saved. They're not children of God. They have an outward standing. They have a place among God's people. They're numbered among the people of God, but they don't actually belong to God's people. And we see this very clearly, I think, with the fact that so many of these Men of Anathoth want to kill Jeremiah. And so God speaks at the very end of this chapter against these men who are plotting against Jeremiah. The men of Amitoth are the men from Jeremiah's own hometown. And remember what Jesus said: no prophet is without honor except in his own hometown. Same thing with Jeremiah. He was honored everywhere except in his own hometown and among his own people. And so God brings the judgment, and it's very clear to them It's very clear that they are not born-again, redeemed, elect children of God because they want to destroy God That's a little overview of covenant theology, something a little bit different from what we normally do here on our daily devotionals, but I think it explains the background of why it is that this covenant could be broken and what is God going to to do about it, and how is it that there are people who are in covenant with God and yet who are worshiping idols and persecuting God's prophets? The question for us is Do we belong to God by faith in Jesus, who is the fulfillment of the covenant of redemption? Or are we just naming the name of Christ, being called as a Christian, hanging around the church, but not really belonging, body and soul in this life and for eternity, not really belonging. To God by faith. Do you trust Jesus? He's the substance of the covenant. He's the prophet, priest, and king, the sacrifice, the mediator, the messiah, the Redemption that we all need. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, our great high priest and perfect sacrifice. Thank you that his redemption, his redemption alone, brings us full and free reconciling. Reconciliation with you. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you for joining me today for Jeremiah chapter 11. Tomorrow we are going to move on to chapter 12, and I hope you have a blessed day in the The Lord.