Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter for day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Jeremiah 2 is where the Lord has us this morning in our 867th day together in the Word of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you We thank you for loving us and for giving us life in your Son, Jesus Christ. We thank you for giving us your word as a gift and a treasure to us. Please write your word on our hearts. Please help us to see Christ and our relationship to you through Him and our call to follow Him. All of that so clearly through Jeremiah 2 today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah chapter 2 The word of the Lord came to me, saying, Go and proclaim in the hearing of Jerusalem, thus says the Lord. I remember the devotion of your youth, your love as a bride, how you followed me in the wilderness in a land not sown Israel was holy to the Lord, the first fruits of his harvest, all who ate of it incurred guilt. Disaster came upon them, declares the Lord Hear the word of the Lord, O house of Jacob, and all the clans of the house of Israel, thus says the Lord, What did your fathers find in me? That they went far from me and went after worthlessness and became worthless. They did not say where is the Lord Who brought us up from the land of Egypt, who led us in the wilderness, in a land of deserts and pits, in a land of drought and deep darkness, in a land that none passes through, where no man dwells? And I brought you into a plentiful land to enjoy its fruits and its good things. But when you came in, you defiled my land and made my heritage an abomination. The priests did not say, where is the Lord? Those who handled the law did not know me The shepherds transgressed against me. The prophets prophesied by Baal and went after things that do not profit. Therefore I still contend with you, declares the Lord And with your children's children I will contend. For cross to the coasts of Cyprus and sea, or send to Kidar and examine with care see If there has been such a thing, has a god, has a nation changed its gods, even though they are no gods? But my people have changed their glory for that which does not profit. Be appalled, O heavens, at this. Be shocked, be utterly desolate, declares the Lord, for my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns, that can hold no water. Is Israel a slave? Is he a home born servant? Why then has he become a prey? The lions have roared against him, they have roared loudly, they have made his land a waste, his cities are in ruins without inhabitant. Moreover, the men of Memphis and Tophanes have shaved the crown of your head. Have you not brought this upon yourself by forsaking the Lord your God? who when he led you in the way. And what, and now what do you gain by going to Egypt to drink the waters of the Nile? Or what do you gain by going to Assyria to drink the waters of the Euphrates? Your evil will chastise you. And your apostasy will reprove you. Know and see that it is evil and bitter for you to forsake the Lord your God. The fear of me is not in you, declares the Lord God of hosts, for long ago I broke your yoke and burst your bonds, but you said, I will not serve. Yes, on every high hill and under every green tree, you bowed down like a whore. Yet I planted you a choice vine, wholly of pure seed. Have you then turned degenerate and become a wild vine? Though you wash yourself with lie and use much soap, the stain of your guilt is still before me, declares the Lord God. How can you say I am not unclean? I have not gone after the bales Look at your way in the valley know what you have done A restless young camel running here and there, a wild donkey, used to the wilderness, in her heat sniffing the wind, who can restrain her hot lust? None who seek her need weary themselves. In her month they will find her. Keep your feet from going unshod, and your throat from thirst But you said it is hopeless. For I have loved foreigners, and after them I will go. As a thief is shamed when caught, so the house of Israel shall be shamed. They, their kings, their officials, their priests, and their prophets, who say to a tree, You are my father, and to a stone, You gave me birth For they have turned their back to me and not their face. But in the time of their trouble They say, Arise and save us. But where are your gods that you made for yourself? Let them arise if they can save you in your time of trouble For as many as your cities are your gods, O Judah, why do you contend with me? You have all transgressed against me, declares the Lord. In vain I have struck your children, they took no correction, your own sword devoured your prophets like a ravening lion, and you, O generation, behold the word of the Lord. Have I been a wilderness to Israel, or a land of thick darkness? Why then do people s do my people say, We are free, we will come no more to you? Can a virgin forget her ornaments? Or a bride her attire? Yet my people have forgotten me days without number. How well you direct your course to seek love, so that even to wicked women you have taught your ways. Also on your skirts is found the lifeblood of the guiltless poor. You did not find them breaking in. Yet in spite of all these things you say I am innocent Surely his anger has turned from me, but I will bring you into judgment for saying, I have not sinned. How much you go about changing your way, you will be put to shame by Egypt, as you were put to shame by Assyria From it too you will come away, with your hands on your head, for the Lord has rejected those in whom you trust, and you will not prosper by them. That is Jeremiah chapter 2, and we're into the heart of it now. Jeremiah the weeping prophet, Jeremiah the passionate prophet pleading on behalf of the Lord with God's people. There is some strong language in this chapter. And Jeremiah is, of all the prophets, the one I think Jeremiah and Ezekiel both, but really Jeremiah has this deep passion for emphasizing the the love relationship, the the bride and bridegroom relationship, the marriage relationship between God and his people, between Yahweh and His people. We as the Church of Jesus Christ are the bride of Christ We have been pledged by God to be the holy bride of the Lord Jesus Christ, just as Israel was the holy bride of Yahweh, so we are the holy bride. of Jesus. And of course we know God is not a polygamist. He only has one bride. And so this bride called Israel in the Old Testament time is called the church in the New Testament time, but it is one holy bride, it is one people of God. And so this message is surely for us. It doesn't just apply to us. It is our story. And it is a story that has been repeated sadly again and again throughout the history of God's people. And that is, when we come to the Lord, Through times of deliverance, through times of salvation, through times of revival, through times of redemption, we are devoted. I remember the devotion of your youth. Your love as a bride, how you followed me in the wilderness and a land not sown. Israel was holy to the Lord, the first fruits of his harvest. God's early relationship with his people. Think about under Joshua, when they came into the promised land, and they saw victory after victory, and the Lord was at work. And at the end of Joshua's lifetime, he said, Choose you this day whom you will serve, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And all the people said We will serve the Lord. And he said, You're not able to serve the Lord, because you're a stubborn people and you'll go astray after the gods. They said, No, we don't want to have anything to do with those gods. we will serve the Lord. That's the days of the devotion of their youth. Or think about under King David, the beginning of the monarchy, which was hundreds of years later after the cycle of judgments through the judges. But David comes up and they cheer the man after God's own heart, and they rejoice when the Ark of the Covenant is brought up into Jerusalem, and they praise the Lord with enthusiastic joy, or when when the offering is taken up for the temple and And thousands and thousands and thousands of pieces of gold and silver and fine gifts are given. And then when Solomon dedicates the temple and there's thousands of bulls and That are sacrificed and the people of God are united. But then what happened? But then what happened? Well, over time. As their hearts got drawn away after the world, as they experienced trouble and didn't quite get what they expected from God all the time. They sought false gods. They sought false gods. It wasn't that God had neglected them, or that God had abandoned them, or that God had forsaken them. They looked around at the nations and they said, Oh, these people have other gods that they worship. Maybe we should get in on that too. Maybe maybe we'll have an even better harvest next year if we also pray to Baal. the storm god. See what God says in verse 7, I brought you into a plentiful land to enjoy its fruits and its good things, but when you came in you defiled my land and made my heritage an abomination. The prophets prophesied by Baal and went after things that did not profit. And so the charge comes. The nations of the world, verse 11 says, Who worship gods that are no gods, do not exchange their gods lightly for another. They don't just decide, oh, let's give up worshiping our God, let's worship this other God. They don't do that. But God's people have. In verse 12 and 13, the Lord calls upon the heavens to be appalled and shocked and desolate at this horrible reality that my people have committed two evils. First, they have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and second, they've hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water. Now I want to stop here for a minute. Because we've been talking quite a bit in the prophets during our daily studies, but also in the book of Isaiah on Sunday mornings about the problem of idolatry. And we've tried to make application for how is it that we ourselves are still turning aside to idols in this day and age. And anytime you take a gift of God And you confuse it with the giver, and you look to it for your hope and your source of identity, your your purpose, your calling, your expectation. Anytime you fear and trust in created things rather than in the creator, that's idolatry. And you can uncover that by asking if-only questions. If only I had blank, then I would be really happy. Or if only we could blank, then everything would be so much better A lot of times those if only statements that we make in our heads and in our hearts reveal the idols that we are drawn after. Another way to measure it is simply what do you think most about, what do you talk most about, what do you really care most about? What gets you most upset? What can you speak at length about with great depth and passion? Is that what has first place in your life? And so we've talked about how politics can become an idol, how pleasure can become an idol, how recreation, entertainment, sports can become an idol. How material possessions, our financial investments, can become an idol. Our family, our own children can become an idol. Because we think, if only I see my children grow up to be happy and successful and to marry well, then I'll know that my life has counted for something. Really? So whether or not your life. Matters or has significance or is worth it is entirely dependent on what your children do. That's idolatry. If only the next election goes our way, really, so the outcome of the next election cycle will determine your happiness, your joy, your blessedness. If only we had enough money to take that vacation. Oh, really? Those are the idols. And here's what we need to see. We've been talking about this for a while, and I think that all of us, if we're honest, we can see the idols. But are we repenting of that idolatry? I think what the Lord wants to do today is for us to hear from Jeremiah 2 how utterly disgusting How utterly unfaithful, how utterly adulterous it is for us to have idols. James, in calling out the idolatry of the church, says, you adulterous people, do you not realize that your friendship with the world is enmity with God? That's James 4. We cannot be worldly and idolatrous and be casual about that We have to be zealous to repent. We are not slaves. We are not neglected. We are not orphaned children so often we turn our hearts after idolatry because we live as though somehow we're spiritual orphans. God doesn't really care about me. God's not really taking care of me. I can't really trust God. I'm gonna go for help to Egypt. I'm gonna go for help to Assyria. Whatever our Egypt or Assyria is. We are not Orphans. We are not slaves. We are dearly loved children of God, sons and daughters of the most high. We've been forgiven, we've been adopted, we've been blessed, we've been given an eternal inheritance, kept in heaven for us. We are blessed. And so don't forsake the Lord to look for the things that you really need from the world. Look to the Lord. Trust the Lord Sometimes we play this game and say, well, of course I trust the Lord, but really I need. Well, of course I trust the Lord, and of course I know the Lord. But you don't understand because I Those yabuts, that's another way of exposing our idol, and we need to let that be a call from the Lord to repent of those things, to really repent of them. And to really trust the Lord. Idolatry is degenerate. It is spiritual whoredom. Look at verse 20. On every high hill and under every green tree you bowed down like a whore. Yet I planted you a choice vine, holy of pure seed. How then have you turned degenerate and become a wild vine? Let's pray. Lord God Almighty, you have called us to be your holy people, to be the holy bride of Christ. to trust King Jesus for everything we need for life and for eternity. It doesn't mean we're going to be comfortable. It doesn't mean we're going to get all of our wishes fulfilled like you're some sort of cosmic genie who does our bidding, but you bless us and you keep us and you cherish us and you save us. for yourself, for your glory, and for our true and eternal good. Forgive us. For being tempted to run after idols. Forgive us for when we actually have run after idols. Show us What it means to be holy, passionately, zealously committed to you. For you are our God, and you have given us life, and you have called us. To give our hearts to you without reservation. May we do so by your grace and for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well that is Jeremiah chapter 2. I hope it's a challenge to you. I know it's a challenge to me. When I get stirred up like that, God is working on my own heart too. So you pray for me, and I will pray for you. and may the Lord continue to bless us, have a blessed day in the Lord.