Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbytery. Church. It is day 878, and we are in Jeremiah chapter 9. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for another day of life Thank you for another day to spend together in your word. Thank you for all that you are teaching us through your word. We pray that you would build us up in Christ. We pray that you would make us More and more your children in our hearts, in our loves, in our imitation of you, in our following after Christ, the Son of God, by the grace of your Holy Spirit working in us, make us more like Jesus today through your word We pray in his name. Amen. Jeremiah chapter 9. Oh, that my head were waters And my eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people. Oh, that I had in the desert a traveler's lodging place, that I might leave my people and go away from them, for they are all adulterers, a company of treacherous men. They bend their tongue like a bow. Falsehood and not truth has grown strong in the land, for they proceed from evil to evil, and they do not know me, declares the Lord. Let every one beware of his neighbor, and put no trust in any brother, for every brother is a deceiver, and every neighbor goes about as a slanderer. Everyone deceives his neighbor, and no one speaks They have taught their tongue to speak lies. They weary themselves committing iniquity, heaping oppression upon oppression, and deceit upon deceit. They refuse to know me. declares the Lord. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold, I will refine them and test them For what else can I do because of my people? Their tongue is a deadly arrow. It speaks deceitfully. With his mouth each speaks peace to his neighbor, but in his heart he plans an ambush for him Shall I not punish them for these things, declares the Lord, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this? I will take up weeping and wailing for the mountains, and a lamentation for the pastures of the wilderness. Because they are laid waste, so that no one passes through, and the lowing of cattle is not heard, both the birds of the air and the beasts have fled and are gone I will make Jerusalem a heap of ruins, a lair of jackals, and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation without inhabitant. Who is the man? So wise that he can understand this. To whom has the mouth of the Lord spoken that he may declare it? Why is the land ruined and laid waste like a wilderness so that no one passes through? And the Lord says, because they have forsaken my law that I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice or walked in accord with it, but have stubbornly followed their own hearts. and gone after the Baals, as their fathers taught them. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will feed this people with bitter food, and give them poisonous water to drink. I will scatter them among the nations whom neither they nor their fathers have known, and I will send the sword after them until I have consumed them. Thus says the Lord of hosts. Consider and call for the mourning women to come, send for the skilful women to come, let them make haste and raise a wailing over us that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids flow with water. For a sound of wailing is heard from Zion. How we are ruined, we are utterly shamed because we have left the land, because they have cast down our dwelling. Hear, O women, the word of the Lord, and let your ear receive the word of his mouth Teach to your daughters a lament, and each to her neighbor a dirge, for death has come up into our windows, it has entered our palaces cutting off the children from the streets and the young men from the squares. Speak, thus declares the Lord the dead bodies of men shall fall like dung upon the open field. Like sheaves after the reaper, and none shall gather them. Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man boast in his wisdom Let not the mighty man boast in his might, let not the rich man boast in his riches, but let him who boast boast in this That he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who practices steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth, for in these things I delight. declares the Lord. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will punish all those who are circumcised merely in the flesh. Egypt, Judah, Edom, the sons of Ammon, Moab, and all who dwell in the desert who cut the corners of their hair, for all these nations are uncircumcised And all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in heart. That is Jeremiah chapter nine. Powerful word from the Lord. The beginning of this chapter, verse 1, is where Jeremiah gets his nickname, the Weeping Prophet. Oh, that my head were waters, and my eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people. That is pretty powerful. Now, some people don't like the fact that Jeremiah is called the weeping prophet. They think it's an overly simplistic nickname, that it doesn't do justice to the power and the depth and the breadth of his ministry. And of course all nicknames are somewhat reductionistic. But I don't mind Jeremiah being known as the weeping prophet for a couple of things. One it is a reminder to us that he wrote Lamentations, which is a lament over the city of Jerusalem. And second, it's a good reminder to us that though Jeremiah preaches judgment and calls for repentance in very strong language, he loves his own. And so he's preaching sin, judgment, and repentance through tears, which is exactly the way that we should Be as we if we're called to bring that kind of a message. A sinful people should be upsetting to us. And they are upsetting to Jeremiah. He goes from weeping for the slain of the daughter of his people in verse one, to saying, Oh, that I had in the desert a traveller's lodging place, that I might leave my people and go away from them, for they are all adulterers, a company of treacherous men. So It's this it's this agony that he feels of like, I'm very upset and very torn because the the daughters of my people are being slain, women and children and They're being slaughtered by invaders because of the judgment of God. But also I don't want to be with them. I want to go live on my own because they're such adulterers. They're such Spiritual adulterers, idolaters, they bend their tongue like a bow. Falsehood and not truth has grown strong in the land. They proceed from evil to evil, and they do not know me, declares the Lord. This heart. It's not hard to understand. Look at look at America today and look at the church in America today, right? So we've got a culture that is rapidly deteriorating morally, economically, spiritually, sociologically. Depression's on the rise, drug use is on the rise, drug overdoses are out of control, anxiety, rising atheism and agnosticism. rising public immorality of a gross nature, just callousness. And the church is largely either hyper-political or hyper-culturally accommodating and spiritually ineffective. And it's maddening and also distressing. It should cause weeping because this is just not right. This is not the way the world that our culture should be going, and this is not the way the church should be acting in the face of the culture going in that way. way. Right? If we have a hyper-politicized and polarized culture, the church shouldn't be jumping in as a hyper-politicized, polarized voice. No. We should be speaking the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. If there's gross immorality in the culture, Christians should not be participating right alongside the world in its gross immorality It should be standing as salt and light. And when the salt has lost its saltiness, Jesus said it's good for nothing but to be trampled underfoot by men. And if the light is is hidden under a bushel basket or no longer shining into the darkness, then that's and th this should be distressing. It shouldn't just be facts that we acknowledge. It ought to move our hearts. It ought to move us to pray. It ought to move us to to preach. It ought to move us to To weep and lament, that's the response that we ought to have. And Jeremiah has that response. He is very upset. And God loves his people and he wants to refine them and he wants to test them. He wants to purify them because he loves them and he wants Them to be his holy people. And they're not. So he's going to punish them, and he's going to lay them waste. So in the midst of all this, I did want to focus on something in particular because some of this is what we've already been hearing from in Jeremiah. There's idolatry, there's immorality, God is going to bring judgment. Um there's going to be bitterness, okay, and that is we are to call for mourning, we are to call for wailing because repentance, just as our praise You know, this past Sunday in church we learned about how our praise should be loud and joyful, so our repentance and our mourning over sin should be loud and heart-wrenching because that is the truth. But here I want us to come to verse 23 and 24, which gives us a little bit of something different in the midst of this chapter for us, I think, to really pay attention to. Because when you're dealing with a deteriorating culture and a spiritually corrupt and weak church. in the midst of that culture, it is easy to become either callous or haughty and arrogant It is easy to boast and say, well, we're not like that. We don't watch those kinds of things. We don't take those kinds of drugs. We don't have those kinds of problems. We're not voting for those kinds of policies. Policies, it can be easy to become haughty. And here is a call to be well-grounded in what truly matters, to be well rooted and established in what is true and eternal and not from us. Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might, let not the rich man boast in his riches, but let him who boasts boast in this that he understands and knows me. That I am the Lord who practices steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth, for in these things I delight to declares the Lord. If you're going to boast, boast in the Lord, in who the Lord is, and that by grace, by grace, you have come to understand and know him. It's not my wisdom. It's not my might. It's not my wealth. It's not my security. It's not my self-righteousness. None of that is worth boasting in or trusting in or building our lives on. But the Lord is. And if we've come to understand and know him, it's only by his saving grace. And what have we come to know about him? that he practices steadfast love, which is the undeserved favor and kindness that he shows to his own despite our sin. Justice, righteousness. This is what God does. This is who God is. And this is what God delights in. And so as we boast in the Lord for this character of his, we should want to see more and more of that character reflected in our own lives truly and sincerely. Not just outwardly. So the last word of this chapter is declaring a a punishment coming on all those who are circumcised merely in the flesh. And what's interesting here is Judah is named In the midst of a bunch of pagan countries, Egypt, Judah, Edom, the sons of Ammon, Moab, and all who dwell in the desert who cut the corners of their hair. For all these nations are uncircumcised, and the house of Israel are uncircumcised. The Lord just lumped Judah in with all of these pagan, idolatrous nations, and he's saying, You're really no different from them, because you might have the sign of the covenant in the circumcision of your flesh. But you are uncircumcised in your heart. External Christianity, external religiosity does not impress the Lord. It's the heart that matters. And if you know and understand the Lord by grace, it changes your heart to be more like his heart. More loving because he's loved you, more just because he's been so good to you, more righteous by grace because he's given you the righteousness of Christ. That's what God's looking for. So should it break our hearts when we see sin in our culture? Yes. Should it cause us to weep and wail even when we see sin within the church? Pastors who commit adultery and leave their wives or embezzle money from the church or who preach a false gospel in order to line their own pocket or who are hyper-politicized And who are leading the church into a very worldly path, or who are very compromised with the culture and who have abandoned biblical standards in order to try to pursue popularity from the world. Should those things grieve us? Absolutely, they should grieve us. And we should repent. But we should not, we should not become haughty and arrogant and boastful to say, well, we're not that way. To the extent that we're not that way, it's by God's grace because we know and understand the Lord. And that's a gift of grace. And we should be thankful and humble. And we also need to examine our hearts because we're probably more that way than we think. And we have more to repent of personally. than we like to admit. But then we do have ground to boast. We do have ground for confidence. We do have ground for joy. It's just not found enough And that's a good thing. It's found in the Lord, because He never fails and He never changes. Let's pray. Father, thank you for being our unchanging, unfailing, steadfast loving, just and righteous. God. There is no one like you in heaven or in earth, and there is no other ground of boasting but that which is found in you. Help us to boast and rejoice and give thanks and test Justify and repent and believe in you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 9. Tomorrow we're going to move on to chapter 10. I hope you can be there for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.