Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Fantamel from Forest Top. Church on our 935th day in the Word of God, we come to the prophet Jeremiah once more, chapter 47. Jeremiah here is in a section where he's speaking against the nations, first of all against Egypt, because that was where Israel, the the remnant of the remnant. that had been left behind in the land of Jerusalem and Judah. That's where they had fled to try to find refuge after the murder of the Babylonian governor. They were afraid of Babylon, they sought refuge in Egypt. I see that pattern again and again. And so in 46 we had a prophecy, an oracle against Egypt. But now the attention turns to the Philistines. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you for your word that is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword that is a comfort to us and a blessing. We pray that you'd speak your word to our hearts deeply and truly and write it on our souls. May we see Christ and may we live more faithfully. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen All right, Jeremiah forty seven, the word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the Philistines before Pharaoh struck down Gaza, Gaza. Thus says the Lord, Behold, waters are rising out of the north, and shall become an overflowing torrent They shall overflow the land and all that fills it, the city, and those who dwell in it. Men shall cry out, and every inhabitant of the land shall wail. at the noise of the stamping of the hoofs of his stallions, at the rushing of his chariots, at the rumbling of their wheels, the fathers look not back to their children, so feeble are their hands Because of the day that is coming to destroy all the Philistines, to cut off from Tyre inside and every helper that remains. For the Lord is destroying the Philistines, the remnant of the coastland of Cathor. Baldness has come upon Gaza, Ashkelon has perished. O remnant of their valley, how long would you gash yourselves? Ah, sword of the Lord, how long till you are quiet. Put yourself into your scabbard. Rest And be still. How can it be quiet when the Lord has given it a charge against Ashkelon and against the seashore he has appointed it? it. Hmm. Well, the Philistines. The Philistines had been a longtime foe of God's people. Babylon becomes representative in biblical history and throughout the Bible as the great power in the world So in the New Testament, Revelation, which we're in, we're going to see later that Babylon is used representative of Rome, which is the great power. Egypt is used in Scripture as it becomes symbolic of when the God's people try to make alliances with the world or when God's people try to settle into the world. It's worldliness is Egypt going back to Egypt. looking for help in Egypt. The Philistines, they become emblematic of the harassing enemies of God's people. Because they have been harassing God's people for hundreds of years. They were along the coast, you know, what's today the Gaza Strip. We have references here to Gaza. Yes, it's the same Gaza that you hear about today in the news with uh the war that's going on between Israel and the Palestinians. Now the Palestinians today along that same coast they're in the same land as the Philistines, but they're not the same people as the Philistines. The Philistines were an eastern Mediterranean people who were from islands off the coast of Greece, and they came after the result of a of a huge earthquake and tsunami, probably what destroyed the Minoan civilization on Crete. Probably that same natural disaster pushed the Philistines from their original home. And they came over and they settled along the coastland there in in the Gaza area. The Palestinians are Arabic. They're from a completely different line. So they're part of the Arabic tribes, the descendants of Ishmael. uh and and so they they live in the same place both start with a p but they're not the same people group um and so the philistines They are people who don't know the Lord, who are pagan, and who oppose God's people. They thought that the coming of of Assyria earlier, 150 years earlier or so, and now the coming of Babylon, they thought that that was going to be good news for them because These great world powers would wipe out Israel and Judah, and that would be to their benefit. Because again, they're just the epitome of the enemies of God's people. They really want to see God's people get wiped out. But what the Lord says to them is that these very same Babylonians who are coming down, they are, they're gonna wipe out Gaza and the Philistines as well. But actually, Pharaoh gets to them first. So we're told that this is the word of the Lord that came before Um before Pharaoh wiped out um Gaza. That was about six oh four. Um and then And then Nebuchadnezzar comes in shortly after that. And um and they were they were basically wiped out by Nebuchadnezzar. somewhere around the year 600. We know that in 597 to 586, when there's uh international meetings in Jerusalem early in Zedekiah's reign, there's no envoy from Babylon. I mean sorry, there's no envoy from Philistia, so Philistia probably doesn't exist anymore as an independent power or as anybody who could send an enemy. envoy to negotiate. So they're they're wiped out first by the Egyptians and then they're wiped out by the Babylonians. And so God's word comes true. This people that had been that they've been a thorn in Judah's side. for hundreds of years. Remember David went and fled and hid among the Philistines, even after he had slew Goliath, the champion of the Philistines. Before that you remember that Samson had his struggles and fights against the Philistines. But all throughout the even the Davidic dynasty Solomon, you know, got the upper hand over the Philistines, but never never ever were able to wipe them out. But now They're good they're going to be wiped out. God says they're going to be wiped out. So this is another proof of the truth of God's word and the power of God that this civilization that had been there before Israel had settled the land. So Israel set his land around fourteen hundred BC. And the Philistines are already a major coastal power about fourteen hundred BC. Is it that's about when they move in But then certainly by the time of Samson, one of the judges, who's probably around 1200 BC, the Philistines are much stronger than Judah, than Israel. And David fights against them around 1,000 B. C. and Solomon around 950. This is all the way up to 600 B. C. So it's been it's been 600 years. That's a long time. That's like coming from now back to the early 1400s. So it's been six hundred years that the Philistines have been a major coastal power. And God says they're going to be wiped out? And that's exactly what happens. Within just a few years of this prophecy, they are wiped out, so much so that, like I said, there's a there's a meeting that happens during Zedekiah's reign in Jerusalem in the 590s. And there's nobody from Philistia who rep who's represented there because they they no longer have an independent existence. So the Lord is destroying the Philistines, the remnant of the coastland of Cathur. That's exactly what happens. And why? Because they were pagan worshiping people who would not hear the word of the Lord. Um, they they uh we have reference to this um Baldness has come upon Gaza, Ashkelon has perished, O remnant of their valley, how long will you gash yourselves The gashing themselves in verse 5 is they're desperately crying out to their pagan gods to save them, just like the prophets of Baal had done on Mount Carmel when they faced off against Elijah. So The reason why they're wiped away after 600 years is because they are pagan. They trusted in false gods They never stopped harassing God's people. Rather than learn from God's people, rather than hear the truth of the one true God and submit to the Lord, they were stubborn. So this is a message to us. What do we get out of this? Well, we can get several things out of this. First of all, we can get the truth that the Lord is the sovereign judge of all the nations of the earth. It's not just Christianity or the Church. The Lord is the sovereign judge over all the nations of the earth. The second thing we can see is that even long-standing ancient civilizations If God decides that their time is up, their time is up. And the third thing is that the nations are called upon to repent of their idolatry and to turn to the Lord. And if Phyllis if Philistia had done that, if Philistia had repented of their idolatry and turned to the Lord and come to worship Yahweh the Lord, who knows what future they may have had But as it is, they're wiped out. Like they they don't exist anymore. There are no people in the world today that you can point to and say there are the Philistines. So we need to hear that. We need to believe it. It's still true today. The God who wiped out Philistia about 600 BC, here we are 2600 years later, he's still the sovereign lord over all the nations And America is just one of the nations among the kingdoms of men. And we've been up and running for about almost 250 years now. But that's no guarantee that we're going to endure long. And the more paganly idolatrous we are, the more stubbornly we refuse to submit to the Lord, I think the more our days are numbered. So there's a message for us to heed And to hear and to proclaim. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior, who redeems us from our pagan idolatry. Most of us who are here listening to this and thinking about this passage together, our ancestors were pagan idolaters back when this word was given from the Lord. They were in the darkness of pagan idolatry. They were um ignorant of the one true God, and yet you've had mercy and you've shown yourself and you've spread your gospel. Would you use us to be able of your gospel, ambassadors for Christ, salt and light in our generation. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's Jeremiah 47. Tomorrow we'll move on to chapter 48. Have a blessed day in the Lord.