Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And on our 890th day together in the Word of God, we're back in the prophet Jeremiah for Jeremiah 17. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. Thank you that you love us, and faithfully you feed us from your word, year by year, day by day, week by week. You're just faithful. Your word is always full of living truth for us to receive by the power of your Holy Spirit and to apply to our lives. So, Father, we pray that you would do that work in us today. We need your Holy Spirit to write your word on our hearts, to move us to trust you, to repent of our sin. to love you, to follow Jesus more closely. We pray this in his name. Amen. Alright, Jeremiah chapter seventeen. The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron, with a pen of diamond, it is engraved on the tablet of their heart, and on the horns of their altars. while their children remember their altars and their asherim beside every green tree and on high hills On the mountains, in the open country, your wealth and all your treasures I will give for spoil as the price of your high places for sin throughout all your territory You shall loosen your hand from your heritage that I gave to you, and I will make you serve your enemies in a land that you do not know, for in my anger a fire is kindled That shall burn forever. Thus says the Lord: Cursed is the man who trusts in man. and makes flesh his strength, whose heart turns away from the Lord. He is like a shrub in the desert, and shall not see any good come He shall dwell in the parched places of the wilderness in an uninhabited salt land. Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose trust is the Lord. He is like a tree planted by water that sends out its roots by the stream, and does not fear when heat comes, for its leaves remain green And it is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick. Who can understand it? I, the Lord, search the heart and test the mind, to give to every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds. Like the partridge that gathers a brood that she did not hatch, so is he who gets riches, but not by justice In the midst of his days they will leave him, and at the end he will be a fool. A glorious throne Set on high from the beginning is the place of our sanctuary. O Lord, the hope of Israel, all who forsake you shall be put to shame. Those who turn away from you shall be written in the earth For they have forsaken the Lord, the fountain of living water. Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed. Save me, and I shall be saved, for you are my praise. Behold, they say to me, Where is the word of the Lord? Let it come. I have not run away from being your shepherd, nor have I desired the day of sickness. You know what came out of my lips. It was before your face. Be not a terror to me You are my refuge in the day of disaster. Let those be put to shame who persecute me, but let me not be put to shame Let them be dismayed, but let me not be dismayed. Bring upon them the day of disaster, destroy them with double destruction. Thus says the Lord to me. Go and stand in the people's gate by which the kings of Judah enter, and by which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem and say, Hear the word of the Lord, you kings of Judah, and all Judah And all the inhabitants of Jerusalem who enter by these gates, thus says the Lord, Take care for the sake of your lives, and do not bear a burden on the Sabbath day. or bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem, and do not carry a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath, or do any work, but keep the Sabbath day holy As I commanded your fathers. Yet they did not listen, or inclined their ear, but stiffened their neck, that they might not hear and receive instruction But if you listen to me, declares the Lord, and bring in no burden by the gates of this city on the Sabbath day, but keep the Sabbath day holy and do no work on it, then there shall enter by the gates of this city kings and princes who sit on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their officials, the men of Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and this city shall be inhabited forever. And people shall come from the cities of Judah and the places around Jerusalem, from the land of Benjamin, from the Shephilah, from the hill country, and from the Negeth, bringing burnt offerings and sacrifices, grain offerings and frankincense and bringing thank offerings to the house of the Lord. But if you do not listen to me, to keep the Sabbath day holy and not to bear a burden, and enter by the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day Then I will kindle a fire in its gates, and it shall be devoured. It shall devour the place the palaces of Jerusalem and shall not be quenched. That's Jeremiah 17. This is one of the better known passages in Jeremiah, especially verses 7, 8, and 9. There's a lot of parallels between verses 7 and 8 and Psalm 1, and then verse 9 and 10, a very famous Verse for understanding the total depravity of man, the the deceitfulness of our human nature. Alright, so the sin of Judah What is the sin of Judah? Well, it's that they were continually going to their high places, where on their high places They worshipped the Asheron, which is the fertility goddess of the Canaanites, their Baals. And even worshiping the Lord, Yahweh, but in a way that was not acceptable, not commanded, not allowed, because it was on the high hills and under the green trees and in the open country and not in the temple that the Lord had appointed as the place of worship. So they were worshiping Wrong gods, that which was not gods, and they were worshiping God wrongly. Now they knew the truth. The prophets had spoken the truth, the law of Moses contained the truth There had been kings like Hezekiah who had led them in reform, in national reform, so that they were worshiping according to the truth. They knew the truth, but deep in their hearts And securely tied to the horns of their altars was this sin. And so God wants to break his people of this sin They think that by carrying on this false worship or this perverse form of worship of Yahweh, there's an ancient inscription that's been found from ancient Judah. uh from someone's home, we think. Just a sort of crude drawing on a clay tablet. And it says Yahweh and his Asherah. And it's a a graven image of Yahweh with a graven image of Asherah, the fertility goddess, and the two of them like holding hands. Yahweh and his Asherah. I always have that picture in my mind when I think of the horribly perverse and distorted version of the faith that the people of Judah were carrying on. They lumped in Yahweh with the gods of the nations, and just as Baal was said to have relations with Asherah, the rain with the fertile earth having relations. Right? And that brings forth life. So they would picture even Yahweh having relations with Asherah and that bringing forth fertility. That's just a perverse way. We must worship God alone and we must worship Him in the way that He has commanded That's clear. If we are his holy people, and we are by grace through faith in Jesus Christ, if we are his holy people, we must worship him rightly and worship him alone. Cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength, whose heart turns away from the Lord So often in our day and age, we don't have graven images of Asherah. We don't have literal altars that sit on top of green hills and beside green trees. But what do we do? We trust in people. For our help and our hope and our security. Politicians making promises. We trust in people. Charismatic leaders who promise us a better future if we will just put our trust in them. That is not right. We will suffer when we do that. Instead, instead of trusting in man, here's the contrast. Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord. whose trust is the Lord. And here we have language that is echoed in Psalm 1. I think Psalm 1 and uh was written after the exile to Babylon as intentionally the introductory psalm, together with Psalm 2, of the entire Psalter And so I think it probably draws on language from Jeremiah. If I had to guess, I would say it may have been written by By Ezra, the scribe, who may have been the compiler of the Psalms. That's just my opinion. Uh it's not just my opinion. It's kind of a traditional school of thought within uh biblical scholarship. But um The contrast here is very clear in Jeremiah. You can either trust in man or you can trust in the Lord. You can't really trust in both, as Jesus would say. No one can serve two masters. You'll either serve the one and hate the other, or you'll despise the one and be devoted to the other. You cannot serve both God and wealth, both God and man, both God and the world, both God and Asherah. You can't do it. If you have a and, then you're not really trusting in the Lord. Oh, I'm trusting in the Lord. You know, there's a bumper sticker. uh that I saw one time that said something like, you know, we trust in the Lord and Smith and Wesson. No, you you can't trust in the Lord and Smith and Wesson. You either trust in the Lord or you're really trusting in Smith and Wesson, right? You're you're you you one thing has your ultimate, and so you're either just paying lip service to God because you really trust in fill in the blank Or you trust in the Lord. And that's because the heart is deceitful above all things, and we'll say, Oh, I trust in Yahweh, I trust in the Lord, I trust in Jesus, I believe in God, in God we trust, right? We'll put it on our money, in God we trust, and then trust in the money that it's written on, rather than the God it's supposed to be pointing us to. The heart is deceitful above all things. We lie to ourselves when we try to have these dual allegiances, but the Lord searches the heart and the mind. And he wants our undivided loyalty. He wants us to really cast all of our cares upon him. To really surrender our entire hearts and lives to Him. So, the people of Judah have not done that. Instead, they're getting rich by injustice. They're committing idolatry. Idolatry and injustice, by the way, one of the major themes of the Old Testament prophets is that Idolatry and injustice often go together. Worshiping false gods, which is really a way of saying, I will compromise in order to get what I want It's really what idolatry is about. Idolatry, the people of God, believers, know that idolatry is forbidden. So why do we do it? We do it because we think it's a way to get what we want. crops, children, land, money, abundance. Right? We want the abundance. And so we'll commit the idolatry to get the abundance. Well, if we're willing to commit idolatry to get the abundance, then we're also willing to commit injustice to get the abundance. We're also willing to cheat other people. If we're going to cheat God of the worship that He alone deserves, certainly we will cheat those who are made in His image. of the honor, of the justice that they deserve because they bear his image. And so idolatry and injustice go together, like two peas in a pod, and they're both from this wicked, corrupt heart. And only the Lord Only the Lord is the one who can save us from this. A glorious throne set on high from the beginning is the place of our sanctuary. O Lord, the hope of Israel, all who forsake you shall be put to shame. Those who turn away from you shall be written in the earth. For they have forsaken the Lord, the fountain of living water. Not a fountain of living water, but the fountain of living water. You're either trusting in the Lord or you're not. You're either looking to Him or you're not. And so Jeremiah reflects this trust in God. When he prays, heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed. Save me, and I shall be saved, for you are my praise. That's it. This is the prayer for us. Man, Jeremiah 17, 14, write that down. Memorize that. It's easy to memorize. Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed. Save me, and I shall be saved, for you are my praise. That is a great thing to pray right there. Just remember that, because the only way for us to be healed, the only way for us to be saved is if the Lord heals us and saves us. He is our praise. Nothing else. Nothing else. So when other people say to Jeremiah, Where is the word of the Lord? Let it come, he says, I'm not going to run away. I'm not going to run away from being your shepherds. This is a mocking taunt of the people of God. You've been talking about God's judgment. You've been talking about God's wrath. Where is it? Come on. The rich are still getting richer. Injustice and idolatry still carries on. Nope. He's going to trust in the Lord. He's not going to run away, but he's asking that the Lord Would keep his promises to him and would carry out what he said he was going to carry out So the second part of Jeremiah is isolating another particular sin of the people. And that is, you think about this, people who are willing to commit shortcuts in order to get material financial gain. They're going to commit idolatry, they're going to commit injustice. What else would they shortcut to get financial gain? Well, they're going to shortcut keeping the Sabbath for sure. A day of rest, holy unto the Lord, a day where we cease from worldly activity and we focus our attention on the Lord? That doesn't sound like a day where we can make money. And if it's not a day for making money, then what's the purpose of it? That's the thinking, right? Keeping the Sabbath holy is one of the Ten Commandments. It is still God's moral law It hasn't been completely nullified. Now the ceremonial and civil aspects of it that related to Jerusalem and Judah as a theocracy, we can talk about those as being a you know a little bit of a shadow and then fulfillment in Christ But the idea that we were created by God from the very beginning to rest one day in seven, that he set the pattern for us in creation, and that he He redeemed that pattern in Christ when he rose again on the first day of the week and gave us the Lord's Day as a Christian Sabbath. We are called to rest in the Lord one day per week on the Lord's Day, on The day of resurrection, as we look forward, part of it is saying, this world is not going to satisfy me. This world can't give me what my soul needs. This world will not have my hope and my trust. I will set aside one day in seven, as the Lord has commanded. I will seek the Lord in worship. I will rest from my worldly endeavors. I will take a time out from the way the world pursues selfish gain and withdraw unto the Lord and say, I am yours and you are mine. And by doing that on the first day of the week, we're looking ahead to a new creation that was sealed in Christ's resurrection. And we're also starting our week. Sunday is the first day of the week. I know our calendars are all mixed up now in our post-Christian paganized nation and Sundays shoved at the end of the week on a lot of calendars. It's not the end of the week, it's the first day of the week. And it is the day that begins our week with worship and rest. So The call for us, very simple. Undivided devotion to the Lord our God, our Redeemer. No idolatry, no injustice. No Sabbath breaking, not out of a sense of legalistic due diligence because we want to prove how righteous we are. But because we know how deceitful our hearts are, and we know that the Lord alone is the one who can heal us and save us, and so we're seeking him wholeheartedly because he is our only hope, and because he has been so good to us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are so good. You have saved us from our sin. You have made us your own dearly loved and holy children. You have given us life Call us to follow you. Call us to serve you wholeheartedly. Empower us by your Holy Spirit to walk by faith with you day by day. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that is Jeremiah 17, and tomorrow on to verse 18, chapter 18 rather, have a blessed day in the Lord.