Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you as we're here on our 936th day together in God's Word in Jeremiah 48 as we We continue these oracles against the nations. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are the sovereign Lord over all the kingdoms of man, all the nations of the earth. And you rule sovereignly. And you have adopted us as your children. You have set your love upon us, and you have had mercy on us. We thank you for that. We ask that you teach us now from Jeremiah 48. Write it on our hearts Help us to see the truth and walk in the truth. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah forty-eight. Concerning Moab, thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Woe to Nebo, for it is laid waste. Kiriathaim is put to shame. It is taken. The fortress is put to shame and broken down. The renown of Moab is no more. In Heshbon they planned disaster against her. Come, let us cut her off from being a nation. You also, O madmen, shall be brought to silence. The sword shall pursue you, a voice A cry from Horonaim, desolation and great destruction, Moab is destroyed. Her little ones have made a cry, for at the ascent of Lewith They go up weeping, for at the descent of Horanam they have heard the distressed cry of destruction Flee! Save yourselves you will be like a juniper in the desert For because you trusted in your works and your treasures, you also shall be taken. And Kemosh shall go into exile with his priests And his officials, the destroyer shall come upon every city, and no city shall escape. The valley shall perish, and the plain shall be destroyed, as the Lord has spoken Give wings to Moab, for she would fly away. Her cities shall become a desolation with no inhabitant in them. Cursed is he who does the work of the Lord with slackness And cursed is he who keeps back his sword from bloodshed. Moab has been at ease from his youth, and has settled on his dregs He has not been emptied from vessel to vessel, nor has he gone into exile, so his taste remains in him, and his scent is not changed Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I shall send to him pourers who will pour him, and empty his vessels, and break his jars in pieces, then Moab shall be ashamed of Kemosh, as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel, their confidant How do you say we are heroes and mighty men of war The destroyer of Moab and his cities has come up, and the choicest of his young men have gone down to slaughter, declares the king, whose name is the Lord of hosts. The calamity of Moab is near at hand and his affliction hastens swiftly. Grieve for him. All you who are around him, and all who know his name, say how the mighty scepter is broken the glorious staff. Come down from your glory and sit on the parched ground, O inhabitant of Dybon. For the destroyer of Moab has come up against you. He has destroyed your strongholds. Stand by the way and watch, O inhabitant of Arur. Ask him who flees, and her who escapes, say, What has happened? Moab is put to shame, for it is broken. Wail and cry, tell it beside the Arnon, that Moab is laid waste. Judgment has come upon the tableland, upon Holon and Jahaz, Jazah, and Mephoth and Dybon and Nebo and Bib Beth Dibblatham and Kiraim and Beth Gamel and Beth Meon And Kirioth and Basrah, and all the cities of the land of Moab, far and near. The horn of Moab is cut off, and his arm is broken, declares the Lord. Make him drunk Because he magnified himself against the Lord, so that Moab shall wallow in his vomit, and he too shall be held in derision. Was not Israel a derision to you? Was he found among thieves that whenever you spoke of him you wagged your head? Leave the cities, and dwell in the rock, O inhabitants of Moab Be like the dove that nests in the sides of the mouth of a gorge. We have heard of the pride of Moab. Wab, he is very proud of his loftiness, his pride and his arrogance and the haughtiness of his heart. I know his insolence declares the Lord. His boasts are false. His deeds are false. Therefore I wail for Moab. I cry out for all Moab. For the men of Kir Heresheth I mourn more than for Jazer I weep for you, O vine of Sidma. Your branches passed over the sea Reached to the Sea of Jazer. On your summer fruits and your grapes, the destroyer has fallen Gladness of joy has been taken away from the fruitful land of Moab. I have made the wine cease from the wine presses. No one treads them with shouts of joy. The shouting is not the shout of joy. From the outcry of Ashbun, even to Eliela, as far as Jay has. They utter their voice, from Zoar to Horanam, and Eglath Shellish Sheleishia For the waters of Nimrim also have become desolate. And I will bring to an end in Moab, declares the Lord, him who offers sacrifice in the high place and makes offerings to his God. Therefore my heart moans for Moab like a flute, and my heart moans like a flute for the men of Kirharasheth Therefore, the riches they gained have perished, for every head is shaved, and every beard cut off On all the hands are gashes, and around the waist is sackcloth. On all the house tops of Moab, and in all the green squares there is nothing but lamentation, for I have broken Moab like a vessel. for which no one cares, declares the Lord, how it is broken, how they wail, how Moab has turned his back in shame so Moab has become a derision and a horror to all that are around him For thus says the Lord, behold, one shall fly swiftly like an eagle, and spread his wings against Moab The cities shall be taken, and the strongholds seized. The heart of the warriors of Moab shall be in that day like the heart of a woman in her birth pains. Moab shall be destroyed, and be no longer a people. Because he magnified himself against the Lord. Terror, pit, and snare are before you, O inhabitant of Moab, declares the Lord. He who flees from the terror shall fall into the pit, he who climbs out of the pit shall be caught in the snare, for I will bring these things upon Moab, the year of their punishment, declares the Lord. In the shadow of Heshbon, fugitives stop without strength, for fire came out from Heshbon, flame from the house of Sion. It has destroyed the forehead of Moab, the crown of the sons of tumult. Woe to you, O Moab! The people of Kemosh are undone, for your sons have been taken captive, and your daughters into captivity. Yet I will restore the fortunes of Moab in the latter days, declares the Lord The Lord thus far is the judgment of Moab. That is Isaiah forty-eight. There's a little bit of hope at the end that we don't get with the Philistines We don't get this with the Philistines, but you have a little bit of hope at the end when he says he will restore the fortunes of Moab in the latter days. Moab, what do we know about Moab? Well, Moab is to the southeast, the east of Judah. It was a a land that was proud. Right? There's repeated references here to the pride of Moab. What reason would Moab have for being proud? Well, um, Moab is a place where trade caravans would go through. There were really two ways that trade from Egypt which had an abundant wheat harvest, and uh many other great things, fish from the Nile and things like that, they would they would pass up and they would be traded with the people of Mesopotamia, the Tigris and the Euphrates. uh and even people up in present-day Turkey. So all of that there were two ways they would go. There there was a coastal road that went up um along the coast and then would pass through northern Israel, but you could also cross to the south and over to the east and go off the eastern side of the Jordan. And a lot of trade went on that side of things. So there was a coastal road and then there was the it's the King's Highway actually is what's known as the that um on the eastern side. And those would go through the plains of Moab. And the plains of Moab were fertile plains because of the Arnon uh river that's made reference to here. in this uh in this chapter, you have um a very fertile area. So you have trade that made them wealthy. You have a river that makes them fertile. And then you have Kemosh, their god. They're very, very proud of Kimosh. And then they have this military prowess, this reputation for having these great warriors. So economic prosperity, agricultural abundance. A religion that they're very proud of, and then um warriors, a very strong military. A lot of parallels there with America, actually. America does a lot of international trade and gets a lot of money from international trade. America has great abundant natural agricultural uh plants Plains in the middle part of the country that are fertilized by a great river. The the Mississippi becomes the way down, but the Missouri River that passes through there, all the tributaries that run in the Mississippi. And then we have a very proud national religious heritage uh that's not quite exactly Christian, but you know, says that that it's Christian in some ways. And then we have a great military, the greatest military in the world. But this is a warning against pride. This chapter, chapter 48, is a warning against pride, especially pride that exalts itself against the Lord. They're told specifically why they're being judged, and that is that they are proud and in their pride they oppose the Lord and the people abhorred. And so pride is the root sin. Pride is that which caused Adam and Eve to want to sin because they they thought they could be like God. They thought God was holding out on them. They didn't try Pride is what caused Satan to fall from grace because he wanted to be equal to God. He wanted the praise that was going on. to God, to be coming to Him. So pride is deadly. Sometimes we focus in sexual sin or materialistic sin or uh idolatry, all of which are terrible. But really kind of at the root of all of that is pride. Because pride gives us that sense of entitlement, that sense of We deserve, right? And that was Moab's thing. We deserve to be honored. We deserve to be respected. We deserve to be feared because we are a great center for trade and we have great agriculture and we have a great military and our God Kimosh is so wonderful. And in that pride, the key thing, they opposed the Lord. They opposed the Lord and the people of the Lord. And they were constantly harassing Israel. Uh there were lots of wars back and forth. between Israel. This is Moab's origin, by the way, is he's one of the sons of Lot. with his daughters, the Moabites and the Ammonites, Moab and Ammon are the two sons that Lot's daughters, you remember that story from Genesis 19? So they have a very sordid origin story, but they're very proud, and God is going to bring them down. Exactly what is said here happens. Right. They are brought down, they are judged, and their refugees are fleeing, and it's terrible. Right? Look at verse 25. Again, we get this. the cause statement. Make him drunk because he magnified himself against the Lord. So that Moab shall wallow in his vomit and he too shall be held in derision. So again, that's that summary that it's pride. We have heard of the pride of Moab, verse 29. He is very proud of his loftiness, his pride, and his arrogance, the haughtiness of his heart. But oftentimes pride is overcompensating. Moab wasn't one of the great powers of the world. That's the difference between America. I said there were parallels in America. America is the world's superpower. Moab never was the world's superpower superpower. They weren't Egypt. They weren't Babylon. And so sometimes pride is is compensating for uh really a deeper sense of of inadequacy, which is which is the situation with Moab. And so God is judging Moab, but he's mourning because they are descendants of Lot. You know, they are descendants of Abram's nephew. And that's probably why they get treated with a little bit more compassion. Because although the Lord is going to bring an end to all the false idolatry and all the pride, in the end it says that they will. Find refuge in the Lord. And Moab, the area that was known as Moab, does become a center for Christian faith on the sort of eastern borders of the Roman Empire. And there are people who have become Christians out of the It's not really identifiable anymore as Moab per se, but there still has been some gospel spread in this part of the world. That's probably what that references to resurrection. the fortunes of Moab in the latter days probably means that they're going to come to to trust in the Messiah. So what do we get from Jeremiah 48? Again, it's a warning against pride. I think that's the number one thing the Lord wants to tell us is don't be proud. Be thankful, right? Be thankful and humble. Whatever we've been given, whatever blessings we have, they're given by the grace of God. They're undeserved. We should be humble and we should be thankful. And the greatest blessing of all, of course, is the Lord Jesus Christ, who alone is worthy of worship. When we are proud and puffed up, we're trying to take worship away from Jesus. We're trying to take credit for the blessings that Jesus has given us us as though we've come up with them ourselves. So we need to be humble and grateful to magnify Jesus who alone is worthy. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for Jeremiah 48. Thank you for the correction that it is to our pride, which is deep in all of us. So humble us and make us grateful. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Well, that is Jeremiah 48. Tomorrow we are going to go back to Revelation. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord, a day of being humble and thankful for all that Jesus has given you.