Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church in beautiful Hartford County, Maryland, and we are here in Jeremiah chapter 20. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, which is truth, for your gospel, which is sound Salvation for your son who is King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and for those who have had the courage to speak the truth, even when it was unpopular. So that we can have from you the full and complete word of God that we need for life. Bless us. Write your word on our hearts. Help us to see and follow Jesus, we pray. His name. Amen. Amen. All right. Jeremiah twenty-eight. In that same year, at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, in the fifth month of the fourth year, Hananiah, the son of Azur, the prophet from Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of the Lord in the presence of the priests and all the people, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon. Within two years I will bring back to this place all the vessels of the Lord's house. which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place and carried off to Babylon. I will also bring back to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim. King of Judah, and all the exiles from Judah who went to Babylon, declares the Lord, for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon. Then the prophet Jeremiah spoke to Hananiah the prophet in the presence of the priests and of all the people who were standing in the house of the Lord, and the prophet Jeremiah said, Amen. May the Lord do so. May the Lord make the words that you have prophesied come true and bring back to this place from Babylon the vessels of the house of the Lord and all the exiles Yet, hear now this word that I speak in your hearing and in the hearing of all the people, the prophets who preceded you and me from ancient times, prophesied war, famine, and pestilence among many countries and great kingdoms, as for the prophet who prophesies peace When the word of that prophet comes to pass, then it will be known that the Lord has truly sent the prophet Then the prophet Hananiah took the yoke bars from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet and broke them. And Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, Thus says the Lord, even so I will break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, from the neck of all the nations within two years. But Jeremiah the prophet went his way Sometime after the prophet Hananiah had broken the yoke bars from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet, the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Go, tell Hananiah, thus says the Lord, you have broken wooden bars But you have made in their place bars of iron. For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, I have put upon the neck of all these nations an iron yoke to serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon And Jeremiah the prophet said to the prophet Hananiah, Listen, Hananiah, the Lord has not sent you And you have made this people trust in a lie. Therefore, thus says the Lord, Behold, I will remove you from the face of the earth. This year you shall die. Because you have uttered rebellion against the Lord. In that same year, in the seventh month, the prophet Hananiah. Died. Jeremiah twenty-eight. Wow, what a sobering chapter. What we get in this chapter is one of the clearest places in scripture where we see the difference between a false prophet and the true prophet of the Lord. This is shortly after Jeremiah had spoken the word of Jeremiah 27 that we looked at yesterday, saying how the Lord, as the sovereign ruler of all the earth, had given all these nations to So the Lord spoke in that very clear word, but here comes Hananiah with a contrary word, a word that is much more palatable to the ears of the people He says within two years. Within two years, not seventy years, not more than fifty five years, but within two years, the Lord's gonna bring back everyone and everything that was Taken off. Isn't that good news? You see, false prophets will tell people what they want to hear, to win approval from the crowd. The true prophet will speak the word of God, even when that word of God is contrary to what people want to hear, and does not make people feel better about themselves. Because it is better to hear and know and believe the truth than the God who speaks the truth. You see, speaking the Word of God is not a sales pitch. It's not a political contest. It's not a competition to see who can be the most flowery in his language, or the most powerful in his illustrations, or the most relevant in his applications. So the most stirring and inspiring in his call. It is about faithfulness to the Word of God for the people of God. Now, apparently, one interesting thing about this chapter is apparently when God had given the prophet Jeremiah this word about the yoke He had had Jeremiah make a yoke as a living demonstration of this is the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar. King of Babylon, we are all called to bear it as coming from the Lord. Well, Hananiah in this chapter, he gets a hold of this yoke, takes it off of Jeremiah's neck. breaks it into pieces and says, aha, see? The Lord says in the same way, I'm going to shatter the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar from off of your neck. Notice that Jeremiah doesn't defend himself, doesn't really fight Hananiah. He doesn't he doesn't get dirty with tactics. He simply says You've spoken what you've spoken. In fact, at one point he says, he says, man, I wish that what you said was true. May the Lord do so. May the Lord make the words that you've prophesied come true. And yet he's not going to give into it. He's going to say, this is the truth. This is the truth. Verse 8, the prophets who prophesied before you and me, they prophesied war and famine and pestilence. As for that prophet who prophesies peace, when the word of that prophet comes to pass, then it will be known that the Lord has truly sent the prophet. In other words, let's wait and see. I'm saying the same thing that Isaiah that Micah, that other prophets who've come before me and you have said, I'm in a line with this faithful tradition of prophet You're saying something like those whom Isaiah condemned because they said peace, peace where there is no peace. Remember that from Isaiah? From the earlier chapters of Jeremiah You don't say peace, peace where there is no peace. You have to speak the truth. And so he says, we'll see. But this contradiction, this conflict, it leads us to do some self-examining. What do we want? What are we looking for? What are we listening to? Do we want to hear those who boost our self-esteem, who make us feel better about ourselves? Do we listen to those who are who are tickling our ears with with things that we desire? Or are we listening to those who will go chapter and verse, open the Word of God, read it, proclaim it, apply it? without fear, without equivocation, without vacillation, so that God would be glorified, so that his church would be strengthened, so that his people would have the truth Because if you trust in a lie, here's the sobering thing at the end. You could just say, well, some people just like to make people feel good. You know, it sells books, it drives up ratings, it gets you more clicks. You're just trying to say what makes people feel good about themselves, right? What's wrong with that? Well, ultimately, Jeremiah tells us what's wrong with that You're making people trust in a lie, and you're uttering rebellion against the Lord, because the truth is God's truth. And God is the one who called his people to submit to the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. So by shattering that yoke, and telling the people it's all going to be peace, that is not just making people feel good. It is causing people to trust in a lie, and it is uttering rebellion against the Lord, because the Lord's the one who's given them the yoke So ultimately Hananiah's life is cut short because he is dangerously misleading God's people. Of God's Word, I hear this with sobriety. Wakes me up, makes me realize I am accountable to the sovereign Lord. To speak the truth, to call people to the truth. Turn away from false prophets. Turn away from those who preach health and wealth or political prosperity or earthly dominance or or peace peace where there is no peace or compromise with the culture or anything else, the gospel of self-esteem, or any of these other things that are so popular. None of it is the truth from God. We need the Word of God, we need the truth of God, we need the Kingdom of God, we need the sovereign rule of God, we need the Savior whom God has sent to redeem us. us and ransom us and reign over us, and we need the solid lasting hope that comes to us through Jesus Christ our Savior. We need to hold fast to Him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for loving us. Thank you so much for giving us Jesus, our Savior and Lord. Thank you so much for giving us your word that is clear even when it's hard, even when it's not what we want to hear. Sometimes we want to hear that we're good people and that everything's going to be okay. You love us too much to feed us a bunch of lies. are going to lead us astray. So ground us in the truth that we might walk in the truth to the glory of your name and for the good of your people. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, um we've done two days in Jeremiah. You might think we're going back to Revelation. Now we're not. Tomorrow we're going to be in Proverbs twenty five, and then two more days in Jeremiah. So it'll be until um Um I think the twenty eighth of June a few more days before we get back to Revelation chapter two, but looking ahead, Proverbs on tap for tomorrow. We don't get to Proverbs very often. We're coming to the close of that great book, chapter 25, coming up tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day. Indlefoard