Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 876th day together in the Word of God, and we are in Jeremiah chapter 8. And if you're super observant, you may be wondering why I'm dressed differently than how I normally dress. And that's because I'm wearing our brand new Forest Hill Presbyterian Church t-shirts, you see. We have our new logo on the t-shirt. We're still tweaking the design. These aren't really available. Uh but um just a little way to build spirit and unity within the body of Christ with this identity and engage people in conversation about our church. So anyway, that's what I'm wearing. Let's pray, and then we'll get into Jeremiah chapter 8 today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is living and active, that is true. It exposes our sin, it shows us Christ, shows us salvation, shows us the way we should walk, what we should believe, how we should live. So Father, speak to us through Jeremiah 8 today, we pray. Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Jeremiah chapter eight. At that time, declares the Lord, the bones of the kings of Judah The bones of its officials, the bones of the priests, the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be brought out of their tombs. And they shall be spread before the sun and the moon and all the host of heaven, which they have loved and served Which they have gone after, and which they have sought and worshipped, and they shall not be gathered or buried. They shall be as dung on the surface of the ground. Death shall be preferred to life by all the remnant that remains of this evil family in all the places where I have driven them, declares the Lord of hosts. You shall say to them, Thus says the Lord, When men fall, do they not rise again? If one turns away, does he not return? Why then has this people turned away in perpetual backsliding? They hold fast to deceit. They refuse to return. I have paid attention and listened, but they have not spoken rightly. No man relents of his evil, saying, What have I done? Every one turns to his own course, like a horse plunging headlong into battle. Even the stork in the heavens knows her times, and the turtle dove, swallow, and crane keep the time of their coming. But my people do not know the rules of the Lord. How can you say we are wise and the law of the Lord is with us? But behold, the lying pen of the scribes who made it into a lie. The wise men shall be put to shame, they shall be dismayed and taken. Behold, they have rejected the word of the Lord. So what wisdom is in them Therefore I will give their wives to others, and their fields to conquerors, because from the least to the greatest every one is greedy for unjust gain, from prophet to priest, every one deals falsely. They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, Peace, peace, when there is no peace Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No. They were not at all ashamed. They did not know how to blush. Therefore, they shall fall among the fallen. When I punish them, they shall be overthrown, says the Lord. When I would gather them, declares the Lord, there are no grapes on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree, even the leaves are withered, and what I gave them has passed away from them. Why do we sit still? Gather together, let us go into the fortified cities and perish there, for the Lord our God has doomed us to perish, and has given us poisoned water to drink. Because we have sinned against the Lord. We looked for peace, but no good came. For a time of healing, but behold, terror The snorting of their horses is heard from Dan. At the sound of the neighing of their stallions the whole land quakes. They come and devour the land and all that fills it the city and those who dwell in it, for behold, I am sending among you serpents, adders that cannot be charmed, and they shall bite you, declares the Lord. My joy is gone. Grief is upon me. My heart is thick within me. Behold the cry of the daughter of my people from the length and breadth of the land, is the Lord not in Zion? Is her king not in her? Why have they provoked me to anger with their carved images and with their foreign idols? The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved. For the wound of the daughter of my people is my heart wounded. I mourn and dismay has taken hold on me. Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then has the health of the daughter of my people not been restored? Jeremiah 8, we actually get Jeremiah's lament for his people. So We know that even as he's saying these very, very hard things to his people that come from the Lord, he takes no delight in them. them. And that right there is something to take note of. You know, God calls us to speak the truth and to speak the truth in love. And sometimes we struggle with wondering what that means. What does it look like? What does it mean to speak the truth in love? Well, it doesn't mean that you sugarcoat something. It doesn't mean you could pull your punches and say things in a way that's more palatable. You speak the truth, you tell it straight, but sometimes you have to do so through tears. Because you love the people you're called to speak to, and you you care about them and you want them to repent, but they're not repenting, and you want them to turn to the Lord and be healed, but they're not turning to the Lord. Lord and being healed. Jeremiah loved the people of God. He loved the people of Jerusalem and the people of Judah. We are called to love the church. We are called to love the people of God where God has put us. We're called to speak the truth, to receive the truth, to believe the truth, to live the truth, to proclaim the truth. But we don't do so with unfeeling hearts. We don't do so with an arrogant self-righteousness. We should do so with lamentation when it's a hard word. with pleading, with urging, and with joy when it is a good word. The word should move our hearts as well as fill our minds and guide our minds lives. So the opening word here in Jeremiah chapter 8 is really continuing on from chapter 7. Whenever you see at that time, you might want to know like, what does it mean at that time? Well at the end of chapter 7, God had said, and I will silence in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness. the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, for the land shall become a waste. This is a prophecy of the final Babylonian destruction of Jerusalem in five eighty six, when God's people will be taken away for seventy years. into exile. At that time, declares the Lord, all of these um important leaders Who did not know the truth, did not believe the truth, did not teach the truth, did not lead the people according to the truth, all of these people, they're gonna have their bones exhumed from the tombs and spread out before the sun and the moon and the hosts of heaven. I could say a word here about burial. Just in passing. God's people have always believed in and practiced burial of the dead. Not burning of the dead. Burning of the dead is a pagan practice. Burning of the dead is an Eastern practice. It's a practice that doesn't honor the body as being made in God's image, but just regards the body as a useless shell. Sometimes Christians fall into the trap of saying, well, our bodies don't really matter. It's our souls. That's who we are. We are body and soul. God made us body and soul. God didn't make a mistake when he made us body and soul. So they're buried. Even today you can go to the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem and you look over the Kidron Valley and on the side of the slope of the Mount of Olives, it's many, many, many, many tombs. tombs, some of them going back thousands of years and they're being and they're buried. And and the ones that are above ground, they have rocks on top of them, because the idea is you want to be underneath the earth so that you can burst forth when Messiah comes. They believe, even Jewish people believe, Messiah will come and stand upon Mount of Olives, and that will be the day of resurrection. But here, the dishonor, the dishonor that is done to these wicked leaders of God's people is that they will be And notice why they're going to be spread before the sun and the moon and all the hosts of heaven, which they have loved and served, which they have gone after, which is They have sought and worshipped. They were called to lead God's people to worship the Lord, but they didn't. They worshiped the sun, moon, and stars, and they led God's people to worship. the sun, moon, and stars. And so that's where their bones are put. God is lamenting over the treachery of his people. They've been knocked down, they've been defeated, they've been disciplined, and they're not they're not responding. They're not turning back to the Lord. They're not Walking and waking up and turning back. They're just, it's a perpetual backsliding, verse 5 says. Holding fast to deceit and refusing to return. They are in a perpetual backsliding. They are not relenting of their evil. They have not saying, they are not saying, what have I done It's because they're convinced that they're doing right. See, that's one of the worst things in a culture is when people become convinced that what God calls evil, what God calls people to turn away from What God says is idolatry and slavery, people become convinced this is actually right. And we should do this. That's when you know it's not good. And that's where where God's people are. The stork in heavens knows their times, the turtle doves swallow and crane. They know the time of their coming. But my people do not know not know the rules of the Lord. So how can you say we're wise? The law of the Lord is with us. But you it's it's a lie. You see the the lying pen of the scribes, Jesus had some harsh things to say to the scribes in his day because they were continuing to lie. What's a scribe? A scribe is someone whose job it is to copy the law of the Lord, and that because they are the ones copying the law of the Lord, they're to teach it to others. They're Levites, they're Levitical scribes. They twisted it to accommodate the desires of the people, to be culturally relevant, to be, you know, modern and up to date. And they accommodated it to the culture. We know, we you know all sorts of ways that people have done this throughout the history of the church. They take the plain meaning of the Word of God. When it speaks about good and evil and God's standards of right and wrong, and they say, oh, well, let's change that because that was then and this is now. Let's do this instead. Let's tell people it doesn't matter. That's a lie. To lie. And so often people who are lying that way are claiming to be wise They're claiming to be enlightened. That's one of the most disturbing and disgusting expressions to use when you're taking the light of God's Word. burying it in the darkness of our depraved culture, and then you're saying it's because you're enlightened. And that people who actually believe in the Bible are stuck in the dark ages. You see, they're calling darkness light and light darkness. They're trading good for evil. God has said what he said in his word, and it doesn't change. He remains our creator. And so there's there's consequences that come. There's consequences that come. We get this expression here that we had already back in chapter 6. We see it here again in 8. 11. They have healed the wound of my people lightly saying, peace, peace, where there is no peace. This would be like saying I don't know, like saying, love is love when it ain't love. Okay, sin is sin. Sin ain't love, and love ain't sin. And so if you're gonna have love is love, right? Or open hearts, open minds, open doors, one mainstream uh apostate church in America has as their tagline. What does that mean? Well, it just means that we're going to throw all God's standards out the window because we're enlightened. No. There's no peace when you throw away God's word. There's no peace when you trade the truth for a lie. So, they've committed abominations, but they're not ashamed. They don't know how to blush. They're going to fall. They're going to be punished. And God is calling them to turn away from that, and they're not turning away from it. And so Jeremiah is in grief. I think this is the lesson God has for us today. Okay, there's a word for the culture, and the word for the culture, and the word for Those churches that are apostate and are turning away from God's Word, the word for them is stop saying peace, peace where there is no peace Stop calling the darkness light. Stop pretending to be wise and enlightened when all you're doing is throwing away God's standard because the culture doesn't want to hear it anymore? That's wrong. You need to repent But for us who haven't gone down that road, who haven't gone down that particular sin road, we have other sin in our lives, and we need to be humble and we need to realize That when judgment comes, when consequences come, we need to mourn. To speak the truth in love means we need to mourn. We don't say this with a cocky, self-righteous arrogance. That says, we have the truth and you're full of lies. We need to just say, won't you hear the Lord? Won't you hear the Lord? My joy is gone. My heart is sick within me because God's people have spent those who call themselves Christians, those who name the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, those who say they believe the Bible Have wandered in the darkness. They've been taken captive by the enemy to do his will. This is grievous, and we should grieve. But we grieve in hope. Because we know that King Jesus reigns supreme, and that he disciplines and purifies his people, and that he will have, King Jesus will have a pure and spotless bride for himself. So we do grieve for the loss of truth and for the loss of conviction and for the exchange of the truth of God for the lie of the world. We mourn for that. We lament it But we mourn and we lament in a quiet confidence. Doesn't come from us, doesn't come from our own self-righteousness. Absolutely not. It's not an arrogant confidence. It's a quiet confidence that says King Jesus will have his bride holy in the end. And we are privileged to be part of that bride. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, thank you for the joy of our salvation. Thank you for loving us, for calling us, for redeeming us, for reconciling us, for leading us. We need you. Would you reform and revive your church? Would you strengthen her and purify her? And lead her. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah chapter 8. Tomorrow we're going back to the Gospel of John and picking up with John fifteen, we'll give a blessed day in the Lord.