Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. In our 908th day, together in the Word of God, we come to Jeremiah 29. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It is a blessing to us, every part of it, the Gospels, the Psalms, the Proverbs, the Prophets. Revelation, it's all beneficial. It's all richly full of treasure for us as we get to know more about you and your ways and your will for our lives. We pray that you would work today through Jeremiah 29, that you would speak to our hearts, that you would write this word on our souls. And help us to draw near to you by faith and to follow you more faithfully. We pray all of this Heavenly Father in Jesus' name. Amen Alright, Jeremiah 29. These are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem. to the surviving elders of the exiles, and to the priests, the prophets, and all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar had taken into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. This was after King Jeconiah and the Queen Mother, the eunuchs, the officials of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen and the metalworkers had departed from Jerusalem. The letter was sent by the hand of Elassa, the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah, king of Judah, sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. It said, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the exiles whom I have sent into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon Build houses and live in them. Plant gardens and eat their produce. Take wives and have sons and daughters. Take wives for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage, that they may bear sons and daughters, multiply there, and do not decrease, but seek the welfare of the city. where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, do not let your prophets and your diviners who are among you deceive you, and do not listen to the dreams they dream. For it is a lie that they are prophesying to you in my name I did not send them, declares the Lord. For thus says the Lord, When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will visit you And I will fulfill to you my promise and bring you back to this place. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope. Then you will call upon me, and come to me and pray to me, and I will hear you. You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart I will be found by you, declares the Lord, and I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where I have driven you, declares the Lord, and I will bring you back to the place from which I sent you. into exile. Because you have said, The Lord has raised up prophets for us in Babylon. Thus says the Lord concerning the king who sits on the throne of David, and concerning all the people who dwell in this city Your kinsmen who did not go out with you into exile, thus says the Lord of hosts, behold, I am sending on them sword famine and pestilence, and I will make them like vile figs that are so rotten they cannot be eaten I will pursue them with sword, famine, and pestilence, and will make them a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth, to be a curse, a terror. a hissing and a reproach among all the nations where I have driven them, because they did not pay attention to my words, declares the Lord. that I persistently sent to you by my servants the prophets, but you would not listen, declares the Lord Hear the word of the Lord, all you exiles whom I sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel. concerning Ahab the son of Kalah and Zedekiah the son of Maessia, who are prophesying a lie to you. in my name. Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and he shall strike them down before your eyes. Because of them, this curse shall be used by all the exiles from Jerusalem, sorry, from Judah in Babylon. The Lord make you like Zedekiah and Ahab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire, because they have done an outrageous thing in Israel. They have committed adultery with their neighbors' wives. And they have spoken in my name, lying words that I did not command them. I am the one who knows, and I am witness, declares the Lord. To Shemeah of Nehalam you shall say, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, You have sent letters in your name. to all the people who are in Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maesiah the prophet, and to all the priests, saying, The Lord has made you priest instead of Jehoiada to have charge in the house of the Lord over every madman who prophesies, to put him in the stocks and neck irons. Now why have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth, who is prophesying to you For he has sent to us in Babylon, saying, Your exile will be long. Build houses and live in them, and plant gardens and eat their produce. Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the hearing of Jeremiah the prophet. Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Send to the exiles, saying, Thus says the Lord concerning Shema of Nehelam Because Shemea had prophesied to you when I did not send him, and has made you trust in a lie Therefore, thus says the Lord, Behold, I will punish Shemeah of Nehelam and his descendants. He shall not have any one living among this people, and he shall not see the good that I will do to my people, declares the Lord, for he has spoken rebellion against the Lord. That is Jeremiah 29. So we open Jeremiah 29 with a very important letter that Jeremiah sends to the exiles who are in Babylon. This first wave of exiles have been taken into uh exile into Babylon. Um actually there's there's two waves. This is probably the second wave uh that's sent. The first one's like 607, the second one's been like 597. And then the third is the final destruction of Jerusalem in five eighty seven, five eighty six is when it's actually finished. So it's like ten year intervals. Six oh seven, first wave of exiles, five ninety seven a huge wave of exiles and then five eighty seven, five eighty six is when there's the complete destruction of Jerusalem. So This is either after the first or the second wave of exiles, probably the second. So King Jeconiah, the Queen Mother, the eunuchs, the officials, the craftsmen, the metal workers, it's huge this seems to be a larger group that's been sent. And so Jeremiah sends them a letter And the latter is perhaps not what they were expecting. There are false prophets already in Babylon. They might have gone with the second group. They might have been part of the first group, but they're there in Babylon and they're prophesying. And they're saying to the people in Babylon, oh, don't worry about it. You're not going to be here for very long time. Another year or two, we'll be back in Jerusalem. The Lord's going to come to your rescue very soon, so don't worry about it. Don't worry about trying to make friends with your neighbors. Don't worry about trying to plant gardens. and and get produce from them. Finally we're going to last that long. You'll be alright. Just make do because we're going to be out of here soon. Jeremiah writes to them very, very differently. He says, no, you need to go ahead and build houses and live in them and plant gardens and eat their produce and take wives and have sons and daughters. Take wives for your sons and give your daughters in marriage, that they may have sons and daughters, multiply there and do not decrease. Now, to be clear, Jeremiah is not saying that they're to intermarry with the Babylonians, but just among themselves, as God's people in exile, they are to marry and to have children because it's going to be a longer time. that they're going to be there. They shouldn't hold off getting married or hold off having children because they think that they're going to be coming back. They're not. They're going to be there a long time. And then in verse 7, he gives an excellent advice, which applies to us as well. This whole letter really applies to us as believers. living in exile in this world. We are not in Jerusalem. We gather each Lord's Day morning for worship with the remnant that the Lord has called together of of the heavenly Jerusalem, our little manifestation of that on earth in the church. So we get to reconnect with Jerusalem and we get to be reminded of our heavenly home in Jerusalem, but we don't live in Jerusalem. We live in Babylon. We are living in exile. We are far from home. We are aliens and strangers in this world. So God says to us, as he said to these exiles in Babylon, seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile. and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare. This is a very key verse for understanding how we are to relate to a pagan culture that we are in exile. Jeremiah doesn't tell them, try to convert Babylon and make it into Jerusalem. Although they would be telling people about Yahweh, the one true God, Daniel would be a faithful witness to the rulers of Babylon, and with Nebuchadnezzar he would even have some great effect seen by his witness. But he's not saying, take over the culture and transform it. He's saying, be faithful. Seek the welfare of the city where I've sent you into exile. Pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare. This very much aligns with what the Apostle Paul indicates that we are to do in 1 Timothy chapter 2. 1 Timothy 2, Paul says, First of all, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgiving be made for all people. For kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. This is good And it is pleasing in the sight of God our Saviour, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man, Christ Jesus. So he's saying we need to pray for those who are in positions of authority that they would be able to keep the peace and execute justice, which is their role. so that we might lead peaceful and quiet lives, godly and dignified in every way. Just as Jeremiah had said, in the welfare of the city you'll find your welfare So Paul is saying here, in justice being established by the rulers, you will be able to live peaceful and quiet lives, godly and dignified in every way, and this will be a good witness. So the church needs to be the church. The church needs to bear witness to the truth of Jesus Christ. We do that most effectively and most freely when there is justice and peace in the land. And that's the same way it was for the um God's people who from Judah who were in exile. They needed to pray for the city, because if the city was doing well, there would be relative peace and justice. And they would be able to live in freedom and be able to testify clearly to the one true God. In other words, the church is best able to be the church. when the state is doing a good job being the state. You don't confuse the two, you don't mix the two up. But the state has a job to execute justice, maintain peace and order and law, keep the people safe. Safety, security, peace, order, law and justice. That's the job of the state. They're given the sword for that purpose. The job of the church is to bear witness and testify to the truth of Jesus Christ. And we're better able to do that, the better the state is doing its job. But we also need to make sure we don't listen to false prophets. We've talked a lot about false prophets in Jeremiah. I don't want to spend too much time on it, but again, here you have people telling the people of God what they want to hear rather than the truth. Now, what's interesting is in terms of understanding the date, and is this really written by Jeremiah, and was this really sent to the exiles at this time in 597 or was it written much later by somebody else who put their name on it? You know, Bible critics will say all sorts of things about the Bible. But one thing that makes sense is it it it doesn't make sense for this to be coming along later. Because there's an active contest between Jeremiah, the true prophet, and these false prophets who have come along. Ahab, son of Kaliah, and Zedekiah, son of Maessiah, who are prophesying a lie to you in my name. Jeremiah is urging, don't listen to Ahab and don't listen to Zedekiah. They're false prophets. Listen to me, I am a true prophet. That message is relevant at that time. It doesn't make sense for some guy hundreds of years later to make it up and write that message and attach the name of the prophet Jeremiah to it. But then of course you have the question of, well, one guy saying one thing and one guy saying another thing, how do we know which one was right? Well, we know which one is right because of which one's word came true and which one's word didn't come true, and also what happened to them. So Jeremiah's word came true. It was 70 years of exile, and then they were brought back to the land. Zedekiah and Ahab, prophesying a really short exile, were wrong. And they suffered consequences because they were carried off in exile to Babylon. So false prophets are exposed with the passage of time as being very, very wrong. Just like when I was a kid, I was about 14 years old, when a book came out called 88 Reasons Why Jesus Will Return in 1988. And I'm so thankful that I first found that book in 1989. And so as soon as I picked it up, I knew it was wrong, and I was able to look through it and study it and get a sense of the kind of reasoning that's used by false prophets. They're always looking for hidden codes and hidden meaning below the surface and this number really means this other thing and if you connect it here that kind of thing is always happening and then Harold Camping got in on it And he wrote a book, I think it was 1994, 1997, Question Mark. And then of course he he proclaimed Jesus was really coming again in 2012. Now he's no longer in this world. Um he he severely undermined the the church by trying to call people to leave the church and call associating the church with the whore of Babylon. Because false prophets are telling people what they want to hear. Right, Jesus comes back this year, next year, it's going to be short. Your exile's going to be short. This is the same kind of message as Jeremiah 29. Your exile is going to be short. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about saving for retirement. Don't worry about providing for your kids' education. We're not going to be in this world that much longer. That's exactly the message of Jeremiah 29, the false prophets. Rather, the Lord tells us we should be expecting his return any day, but we should be planning As if we're going to live a full life here, the full seventy years of exile, right? That's a that I don't think it's a coincidence that the lifespan of average person still today that We should expect that. Your exile will be long, and you should settle in and you should seek the welfare of the city where God has sent you. So we learn a lot from Jeremiah twenty nine. We are exiles. We are to pray for the city that God's called us to live in We're to seek the welfare of the city that God's called us to be in. We're to be faithful. We're to have endurance, and we're to not be distracted by false prophets who would tell us what we want to hear. Whether that's the Health and Wealth Prosperity Gospel, or whether that's the Jesus is coming really soon, like next October kind of message, whatever it is, we need to turn a deaf ear to it and be faithful to what God has clearly revealed in Scripture and not these hidden secret mysteries that people claim to have insight into. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you're good. You're faithful. We can trust you. Your word's given us everything we need. You haven't hidden it in a corner. You've told us the truth. Jesus is coming again. No one knows the day or the hour. It could be today. It could be a hundred years from now. We just don't know And we need to be patient. We need to wait. We need to trust you. We need to be faithful to pray for the culture where you've put us and to seek the welfare of the culture where you've put us. So that the church can be the church and can be a faithful body of believers who bear witness to the truth wherever you have placed us. Help us to do that, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 29. Tomorrow, Jeremiah 30 is on tap. Day after tomorrow, we're going to be back in Revelation. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.