Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Themmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our eight hundred and ninety-third day together in the Word of God, and we come back to the Prophet Jeremiah today as we approach Jeremiah 19. Let's pray. Together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the precious treasure and for the correction and comfort, for the insight into our own hearts and into our world that we get from your word. We pray that you'd speak to us today through Jeremiah nineteen. Show us more of ourselves, help us understand our place in this world, and most importantly, show us more of Jesus so that we may walk with him by faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah 19. Thus says the Lord, go buy a potter's earthenware flask. and take some of the elders of the people, and some of the elders of the priests, and go out to the valley of the Son of Hinnem. at the entry of the potshard gate, and proclaim there the words that I tell you, you shall say Hear the word of the Lord, O kings of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel Behold, I am bringing such disaster upon this place that the ears of everyone who hears of it will tingle, because the people have forsaken me and have profaned this place. by making offerings in it to other gods, whom neither they, nor their fathers, nor the kings of Judah have known, and because they have filled this place with the blood of innocence and have built the high places of Baal to burn their sons in the fire as burnt offerings to Baal, which I did not command or decree, nor did it come into my mind. Therefore, behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, when this place shall no longer be called Topheth, or the Valley of the Son of Hinnam, but the Valley of S. Slaughter. And in this place I will make void the plans of Judah and Jerusalem, and will cause their people to fall by the sword before their enemies, and by the hand of those who seek their life. I will give their dead bodies for food to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the earth, and I will make this city a horror, a thing to be hissed at. Every one who passes by it will be horrified and will hiss because of all its wounds, and I will make them eat the flesh of their sons and their daughters. And every one shall eat the flesh of his neighbor in the siege and in the distress with which their enemies and those who seek their life afflict them. Then you shall break the flask in the sight of the men who go with you, and say to them, Thus says the Lord of hosts, so will I break this people. And this city as one breaks a potter's vessel, so that it can never be mended. Men shall bury in Tophith, because there will be no place else to bury Thus will I do to this place, declares the Lord, and to its inhabitants, making this city like Tophith, the houses of Jerusalem and the houses of the kings of Judah, all the houses on whose roofs Offerings have been offered to all the host of heaven, and drink offerings have been poured out to other gods, shall be defiled like the place of Tophith. Then Jeremiah came from Tophith. Where the Lord had sent him to prophesy. And he stood in the court of the king's house and said to all the people, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, behold, I am bringing upon this city, and upon its towns, all the disaster that I have pronounced against it. because they have stiffened their neck, refusing to hear my words. That is Jeremiah 19, and that is a very Powerful message of judgment and warning, which we've gotten so many times here in Jeremiah. There's this Potter's Earthenware vessel, another object lesson that God gives Jeremiah. Yeah, earlier he had been sent to the potter's house to see the potter working with the clay, and maybe he'll make one thing out of it, and maybe he'll make another thing out of it. And this was to tell the people of Judah and Jerusalem that if they were to repent, the Lord may relent of the disaster that He's promised them. But even though he had in the past promised them good things, their current sin had caused them to come under a sentence of condemnation. So here though, this is a potter's earthenware vessel that's done. It's a flask. It's finished. It's complete. What do you do with it then if it's not going to serve its purpose? What do you do with it then if it's not a good flask? You break it into pieces. Maybe you can use the the shards of the pottery for something better than if the flask was not serving its purpose. And that's what the Lord's going to do to Jerusalem and to the inhabitants of Judah. They will not serve their purpose. And why? Again, the issue, as we've seen so often, is that these people. Even among the leadership, even among the priests and the royal family, the kings and their families The people who should know better, the people who are called to lead the people of God in the worship of God, on their rooftops, in Jerusalem, within sight of the temple, they're offering up sacrifices to the hosts of heaven and to the false gods. They're committing idolatry in the eyes of the Lord in the Holy City, as the leaders of the Holy City. That's awful That's awful. But you think of how many times recently we've heard of pastors bishops, leaders, so-called prophets within the church, who in the name of Jesus and in the sight of God are extorting money from people Selling them on a prosperity gospel of a salesman's trick that says, if you give me your hundred dollars, God will give you a thousand back. And it's just a lie. It has no scriptural support. They manipulate and twist scripture out of context. They worship the God of wealth. They worship the God of the American dream. Or how many pastors and church leaders just preach politics and earthly power? And what ends up happening, even though they would absolutely deny it, is the truth of God gets relativized. And this happens on the political left as well as on the political right. And so you can have churches celebrating Pride Month and putting rainbow flags out front and embracing the LGBTQAI agenda. on the one side, but on the other side you could have churches that are literally chanting let's go Brandon in their Sunday morning worship service It's been examples on both sides of just the radical uh political idolatry that polarizes the people of God into earthly identities instead of our identity in Christ, who makes us one, pursuing money, pursuing Sexual pleasure. How many pastors, church leaders have lost their ministry position because they've committed adultery or sexual immorality? These are the idols of our age. Money, sex, and politics. Money, sex and politics. Like that's that's the American Baal and Asherah and the story hosts. Like that's And it it's you see church leaders, you see pastors, you see elders who are doing this. And do we think That God will somehow wink and look the other way, make an excuse for us. No, he will not. And so we are called, we are called to be faithful. We are called to say, I will not follow the things of the world. Why? Because we have a better king. We have the Word of God made flesh. We have the temple that's being built up in the church that we get to be living stones in that temple. We have the king and the high priest and the prophet in the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ, who calls us and to even to share in his anointing as we're called. to speak the word of God and to intercede on behalf of lost sinners and to proclaim what God has said and to exercise dominion within the church over the things that have been entrusted to our care. It's a higher and a holier and a better privilege than what the world can offer What of what eternal value are money sex in politics? They can't buy you happiness or joy, and they certainly can't buy you eternal life. And so we need to be zealous and repent, and we need to be faithful, and we need to maintain the trust that God has given us. And we need to pray that God would grant repentance. To his people, because it's not too late for God to grant repentance and for God to have mercy. So let's pray for that Heavenly Father, we know in our own hearts, if we're honest, our own pull toward idolatry. There are times when the false gods that the world is dangling in front of our faces seem oh so attractive But Father, help us to turn our backs on those things because of the greater value of Christ. Help us to fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our Our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. Help us to look to you. Help us to run the race that you've given us to run with faithfulness, with our eyes fixed on the prize and not distracted by the wares of Vanity Fair. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Well, that's Jeremiah 19. Tomorrow we'll move on to chapter 20. Have a blessed day in the Lord.