Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Jeremiah 46 is what the Lord has on tap for us this morning. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word, perfect in every way, breathed out by your very mouth, the scriptures that give us correction, the scriptures that give us instruction, the scriptures that show us Christ Write your word on our hearts today from Isaiah 46, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah 46. The word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the nations, about Egypt, concerning the army of Pharaoh Nico, king of Egypt which was by the river Euphrates at Carchimesh, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon defeated in the fourth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah. Prepare buckler and shield, and advance for battle. Harness the horses, mount, O horsemen, take your stations with your helmets, polish your spears, put on your armor. Why have I seen it? They are dismayed and have turned backward. Their warriors are beaten down and have fled in haste. They look not back, terror on every side declares the Lord. The swift cannot flee away, nor the warriors escape. In the north, by the river Euphrates, they have stumbled and fallen Who is this rising like the Nile, like rivers whose waters surge? Egypt rises like the Nile, like rivers whose waters surge. He said, I will rise, I will cover the earth, I will destroy cities and their inhabitants. Advance, O horses, and rage, O chariots, let the warriors go out. Men of Cush and put who handle the shield, men of Lud, skilled in handling the bow. That day is the day of the Lord God of hosts, a day of vengeance, to avenge himself on his foes. The sword shall devour and be sated and fill it drink its fill of their blood For the Lord God of hosts holds a sacrifice in the north country by the river Euphrates. Go up to Gilead and take Balm, O virgin daughter of Egypt, in vain You have used many medicines. There is no healing for you. The nations have heard of your shame, and the earth is full of your cry. For warrior has stumbled against warrior, they have both fallen together. The word that the Lord spoke to Jeremiah the prophet about the coming of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to strike the land of Egypt declare in Egypt, and proclaim in Mygdal, proclaim in Memphis and Topanes, say, Stand ready and be prepared, for the sword shall devour around you Why are your mighty ones face down? They do not stand, because the Lord thrust them down. He made many stumble and they fell. And they said to one another, Arise, and let us go back to our own people, and to the land of our birth, because of the sword of the oppressor. Call the name of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, Noisy One, who lets the hour go by. As I live, declares the Lord, whose name is the Lord of hosts. Sorry, as I live, declares the king, whose name is the Lord of hosts, like Tabor among the mountains, and like Carmel by the sea, shall one come. Prepare yourselves baggage for exile, O inhabitants of Egypt, for Memphis shall become a waste, a ruin without inhabitant. A beautiful heifer is Egypt, but a biting fly from the north has come upon her, even her hired soldiers in her midst. are like fattened calves. Yes, they have turned and fled together. They did not stand, for the day of their calamity has come upon them, the time of their punishment She makes a sound like a serpent gliding away, for her enemies march in force and come against her with axes, like those who fell trees, they shall cut down the forest, declares the Lord Though it is impenetrable, because they are more numerous than locusts, they are without number. The daughter of Egypt shall be put to shame. She shall be delivered into the hand of a people from the north. The Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, said, Behold, I am bringing punishment upon Amon of Thebes and Pharaoh and Egypt and her gods and her kings, upon Pharaoh and those who trust in him, I will deliver them into the hand of those who seek their life, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and his officers. Afterward Egypt shall be inhabited, as in the days of old, declares the Lord. But fear not, O Jacob, my servant. Nor be dismayed, O Israel, for behold I will save you from far away, and your offspring from the land of their captivity, Jacob shall return and have quiet and ease And none shall make him afraid. Fear not, O Jacob, my servant, declares the Lord, for I am with you. I will make a full end of all the nations to which I have driven you, but of you I will not make a full end I will discipline you in just measure, and I will by no means leave you unpunished. That is Jeremiah 46 So this is coming toward the end of Jeremiah's ministry, but it's it's bringing back a prophecy from years earlier. So this battle that's being referred to here in the opening. about Egypt concerning the army of Pharaoh Nico, king of Egypt, who was by the river Euphrates at Carchemish, and which Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, defeated in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah. That battle takes place at about 605 BC. It is the definitive battle that gives the Babylonians the upper hand and control of the area of Israel and Judah. It's a battle that takes place in the north by the river Euphrates, but it basically pushes Egypt out of that whole section of Israel, Judah, Jordan, Lebanon, that whole that whole area there. And it's coming now back for the people who are in exile in Babylon as well as for the people who have sought shelter in Egypt. And it's a very timely word for them, even though it was a word about a battle that happened years before. Now it's like six eighty five, so like twenty years later, and the or five eighty five I should say. Um Twenty years later, Jerusalem's been conquered, Judah's been completely defeated, the Babylonians have taken off the people into captive captivity. The remnant that was left behind, remember it was um They they they there was an assassination of the Babylonian governor, Gedaliah, and then Johannon uh leads all the people into Egypt because they're afraid of the Babylonians. So they're still seeking shelter. Egypt. So this is a reminder to them. Hey, remember 20 years ago when you were trusting in Egypt? Remember how that didn't go well? Remember how Egypt lost to the Babylonians at that battle? And so here's this word from this battle from 20 years ago. And it is the word that came. That predicted the battle would not go Egypt's way. So the word of the Lord was proven true from twenty years ago, and now the word is to not trust in Egypt anymore. So let's look briefly at this Egypt, powerful nation, again, the oldest civilization in the world at that time, a very large army. They had horses and chariots They had a very large number of horses and chariots from Egypt. And then they had great warriors from Cush and Put. That's from like Ethiopia, South Sudan area, Cush. Put is probably on the north Libya coast. The men of Lud are men who are skilled with the bow. Um, could be people from Lydia, uh, in Asia Minor area. But anyway, the point is they have horses and chariots, they have they have people who are good at handling sword and shield and people who are good at handling the bow. They have a great army. But it's the day of the Lord God of hosts, a day of vengeance, to avenge himself on his foes. The sword shall devour and be sated, and drink its fill of their blood. The great army of Egypt was not enough to protect them from the wrath of God, that ultimately was the cause of their defeat. So now remember Jeremiah had told the remnant in Judah, don't go to Egypt. And they had said, nah, that's Barak telling you that. That's not religious. A word from the Lord. We're going to go. And then they get into Egypt, and Jeremiah says, Quit making offerings to the Queen of Heaven. And they say, We're not going to listen to you. Back when we made offerings to the Queen of Heaven, things were so much better. So they are refusing again to listen to the Lord and they're trusting again in Egypt. But what God tells them is that Egypt is A beautiful heifer, but a biting fly from the north has come upon her. Way down verse 20. And in verse 19, prepare yourselves baggage for exile, O inhabitants of Egypt, for Memphis shall become a waste, a ruin without inhabitants. So Not only are they going to lose the Battle of Babylon far away, but Babylon's coming to their home turf and it's going to defeat them there and take them off into exile. They're going to be defeated in their own territory just as badly as they were defeated 20 years earlier at the Battle of the River Euphrates. It is never a good idea for God's people to seek their security, their hope, in earthly political alliances in Egypt. Because Egypt cannot stand if the Lord is bringing judgment. And the Lord is bringing judgment. So the daughter of Egypt shall be put to shame, verse twenty four, she shall be delivered into the hand of a people from the north. This is what is going to happen. And the confirmation of it is bringing back this prophecy from twenty years ago to remind the people, remember twenty years ago when God said this word against Egypt When Pharaoh Nico went out to battle. God was true then, and God is true now. There's been so many words of the Lord through Jeremiah that have been perfectly fulfilled. And yet God's people are still not listening. But what I want us to focus on is these last two verses of this chapter. Because God is so incredibly gracious to his people. Despite repeated warnings, despite repeated prophecies being fulfilled and not heeded. Despite persistent disobedience and idolatry, God says to his people, Fear not, nor be dismayed. Fear not, for I am with you. Wait, I thought it was God who sent them into exile. Yes, it was. I thought it was God who was going to defeat Egypt so they can't hide there. Yes, it is. God says to them the last two lines, I will discipline you in just measure. I will by no means leave you unpunished. But when God disciplines his own people whom he loves, It is not out of wrath. It is in love. It is for correction. It is for eventual blessing. God is saying to his people, fear not, nor be dismayed. I will save you. You will return and have quiet and ease. I am with you. I'm going to make a full end of the nations to which I've given you, but I'm not going to make a full end of you. Think about how gracious God is. They don't deserve this. After all this time, all this warning I think it's absurd that people say that the God of the Old Testament is a God who's grumpy and impatient and just wrathful. Look at this! How patient! How kind To a people stubborn, and that's good news for us because we are a people stubborn. How many times has God shown himself to be faithful in our lives? And how many times have we persisted in unbelief? despite his goodness to us. This is good news for us. Because ultimately, when God promises That his people will return and have quiet and ease, and none will make us afraid. That's going to happen when Jesus comes again and gathers us home to be with himself. And on that day the Lord will make a full end of all the nations, but he will gather in his people into our eternal rest. Knowing that should motivate us to trust him and not ourselves and not the nations of this world, not the politicians and the power brokers. But him and him alone. Let's pray. Father, we are your holy people, loved by you, sustained by your grace, blessed by you again and again. Be with us. Build us up. Strengthen our faith. Make us more faithful. Lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. Lead us all the way home. We pray in Jesus' name. Name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 46. Tomorrow we are going back to Revelation, Revelation chapter 8. Have a blessed day in the Lord.