Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I'm Pastor J. Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On our 930th day, together in the Word of God, we come to Jeremiah 44. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are our God. You've given us your word, you've given us your Son, you've given us your Spirit We're so thankful that you have chosen to reveal yourself to us and to draw us near to yourself. We're blessed, we're privileged. Help us to attend to your word today and speak by your Holy Spirit to our hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Jeremiah forty four. The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Judeans who lived in the land of Egypt At Migdal, at Topanes, at Memphis, and in the land of Pathros. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, you have seen all the disaster that I brought upon Jerusalem And upon all the cities of Judah. Behold this day they are a desolation, and no one dwells in them because of the evil that they committed, provoking me to anger. in that they went to make offerings and serve other gods that they knew not, neither they, nor you, nor your fathers. Yet I persistently sent to you all my servants, the prophets, saying, Oh Do not do this abomination that I hate. But they did not listen, or inclined their ear to turn from their evil, and make no offerings to other gods. Therefore my wrath and my anger were poured out and kindled in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem and they became a waste and a desolation as at this day. And now, thus says the Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel, why do you commit this great evil among yourselves to cut off from you, man and woman, infant and child, from the midst of Jerusalem, leaving you no remnant. Why do you provoke me to anger with the works of your hands, making offerings to other gods in the land of Egypt where you have come to live, so that you may be cut off and become a curse and a taunt among all the nations of the earth? Have you forgotten the evil of your fathers, the evil of the kings of Judah, the evil of their wives, your own evil, and the evil of your wives, which they committed? In the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem they have not humbled themselves even to this day, nor have they feared, nor walked in my law and my statutes that I set before you and before your fathers. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will set my face against you for harm, to cut off all Judah. I will take the remnant of Judah who have set their faces to come to the e to the land of Egypt to live, and they shall all be consumed In the land of Egypt they shall fall by the sword, and by famine they shall be consumed. From the least to the greatest, they shall die by the sword and by famine, and they shall become an oath, a horror, a curse, and a taunt I will punish those who dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence so that none of the remnant of Judah who have come to live in the land of Egypt shall escape or survive or return to the land of Judah to which they desire to return, to dwell there. for they shall not return, except some fugitives. Then all the men, who knew that their wives had made offerings to other gods And all the women who stood by a great assembly, all the people who lived in Tathros in the land of Egypt, answered Jeremiah. As for the word that you have spoken to us in the name of the Lord, we will not listen to you But we will do everything we have vowed, make offerings to the Queen of Heaven, and pour out drink offerings to her, as we did, both we and our fathers, our kings and our officials. in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, for then we had plenty of food, and prospered, and saw no disaster, but when we left off making offerings to the Queen of Heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have lacked. Since we did that, we have lacked everything and have been consumed by the sword and by famine. And the women said, When we made offerings to the Queen of Heaven, and poured out drink offerings to her? Was it without our husband's approval that we made cakes for her, bearing her image, and poured out drink offerings to her? Then Jeremiah said to all the people, men and women, all the people who had given this answer. As for the offerings that you offered in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, you and your fathers, your kings, and your officials, and the people of the land, did not the Lord remember them? Did it not come into his mind? The Lord could no longer bear your evil deeds and the abominations that you committed. Therefore your land has become a desolation and a waste and a curse without inhabitant as it is this day. It is because you made offerings, and because you sinned against the Lord, and did not obey the voice of the Lord, or walk in his law, and in his statutes, and in his testimony. That this disaster has happened to you as at this day. Jeremiah said to all the people and all the women, Hear the word of the Lord, all of you All of you, you of Judah, who are in the land of Egypt. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, you and your wives have declared with your mouths And have fulfilled it with your hand, saying, We will surely perform our vows that we have made to make offerings to the Queen of Heaven, and to pour out drink offerings to her. Then confirm your vows and perform your vows Therefore hear the word of the Lord. All you who of Judah who dwell in the land of Egypt, behold, I have sworn by my great name, says the Lord. Lord, that my name shall no more be invoked by the mouth of any man of Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, as the Lord God lives. Behold, I am watching over them for disaster and not for good. All the men of Judah who are in the land of Egypt shall be consumed by the sword and by famine until there is an end of them And those who escape by the sword shall return from the land of Egypt to the land of Judah, few in number, and all the remnant of Judah who came to the land of Egypt to live, shall know whose word will stand, mine or theirs. This shall be the sign to you, declares the Lord, that I will punish you in this place, in order that you may know that my words will surely stand against you for harm Thus says the Lord, Behold, I will give Pharaoh, Hophra, King of Egypt, into the hand of his enemies, and into the hand of those who seek his life, as I gave Zedekiah, King of Judah, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, King of the World. Babylon who his enemy who was his enemy and sought his life. That's Jeremiah forty-four. Stubborn, stubborn people of God, idolatrous as anything. You know one of the most absurd, absurd things about church history and about the current practice of many people in the world today who would call themselves Christians? Is that even though Jeremiah 44 is in the Bible and is very clear, There is still a cult of the worship of Mary as the Queen of Heaven Well, they don't worship the same queen of heaven that was in the same days as Jeremiah, but they still have a queen of heaven. They insist on having a queen of heaven. And they say it's Mary, the mother of Jesus. Mary, I guarantee you, is not the Queen of Heaven, does not want to be called the Queen of Heaven, and does not want to be worshipped But they even go so far as making cakes with her image on it, or cookies with her image on it, or t-shirts with her image on it, or you know, the the the graven images that are a direct violation of the second commandment And the worship of the Queen of Heaven, which is directly contrary to Jeremiah 44, millions and millions of people who call themselves Christians openly practice unrepentantly to this day. That's pretty bold. But you know In many ways, American evangelicalism, which doesn't give in to Mariolatry, doesn't worship the Queen of Heaven. worships other things so boldly, so openly. Jesus said, no one can serve two masters You will either love the one and hate the other, or hate the one and be devoted to the other. You cannot serve both God and wealth. And yet American evangelical Christians worship the American dream, they worship outward success and prosperity. They want to go to the church that's big and fancy and spends millions of dollars on its building and on its production that has, you know. the latest and greatest of everything, because outward material worldly success is the measure that we use of worth among professing American equations. evangelical Christians, and that's wrong. That's just wrong. We worship entertainment. We judge whether or not a worship service is good, not by whether or not God is glorified and his word is proclaimed, not by whether or not he is praised. and worship rightly, but whether or not we feel good about it, whether or not it moves us, whether or not we had a powerful experience. You see, all idolatry is really just forms of self-satisfying self-worship. These Judean exiles who are living in Egypt. Why are they so openly defiant of Jeremiah? Why do they say to Jeremiah, we're not going to listen to you? We're not going to do what you say. We're going to fulfill all the vows that we have made, despite all the warnings, despite even Jeremiah had prophesied for years that Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, was coming and he was going to destroy the city, and he was going to send them all into exile. And they went into exile and they suffered that way. So why would they be so stubborn? Well, we get the answer here in verse 17. We will do everything that we have vowed. Make offerings to the Queen of Heaven and pour out drink offerings to her as we did, both we and our fathers, our kings and our officials, in the cities of Judah, in the streets of Jerusalem. For then we had plenty of food and prospered, and saw no disaster, but since we left off making offerings to the Queen of Heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have lacked everything, and have been consumed by the sword And by famine. Rather than seeing the sword and famine for what they are, judgments by the Lord for their idolatry They simply say, well, back when we were making offerings to the Queen of Heaven, we were prosperous. We had plenty of food. There was no disaster. They want the good life. They're chasing after the good life. And so many professing Christians are still doing that. They're saying, Oh, I will acknowledge the Lord, I will call myself a Christian. I might go to church every once in a while. Increasingly, people think the church is just totally optional. As though it's not the body of Christ, as though it's not the flock of God, as though it's not the living temple that Christ is building that He is. made promises that he will build and the gates of hell will not stand against. They say, oh the church is kind of optional. I'm going to live my good life, and if there's time in my good life for church every once in a while, I'll do that. But I'll call myself a Christian. I'll chase after the American dream. I'll live like all of my neighbors, living for sports and entertainment and pleasure and prosperity and self-satisfaction, and I don't need to listen to anybody who tells me any different And if prophetic voices come along and say, wait a minute, Jesus said, if anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me, they say, Nah, we don't want to do that. If anyone comes along and says, Worship the Lord your God, him only shall you serve. And you need to be with his people worshiping. And you need to be obedient to his word. The word of the Lord is living and active, powerful. You need to obey it. You need to heed it. Nah, that's legalism. That's just legalistic. We'll make up all sorts of ways of dismissing the clear and obvious Word of God. And and we could laugh and scorn at people who worship Mary as Queen of Heaven, but worshiping the American dream or worshiping some political figure, or worshiping our own comfort and convenience, or demanding that church serve us And our felt needs rather than glorify God and spread his kingdom, we need to repent. We need to not be like these Judahites in Jeremiah. We need To repent, we need to hear the voice of the Lord Jesus Christ saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you are King of Kings and Lord of Lords. We are your holy people by your grace and for your glory. May we live for you and not for ourselves. May we worship you and not the idols of this age. Expose, show us the idols of this age that we are giving our hearts to And give us the grace to turn from those things and turn to you and seek you and honor you, for you are worthy. Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 44. Tomorrow we're going to be going over to the Psalms and picking up Psalms 135 and 136. I hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord. As you turn from idols to worship the living and true God