Good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and on our 95th day in God's Word over these past three years, we come back to the Prophet Jeremiah and Jeremiah 27. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. All parts of your word are rich and full of truth and helpful to us. We pray that you would write Jeremiah 27 on our hearts this morning as we dig into this chapter. May we be guided by your Spirit to know the truth. May the truth lead us to Christ. And may you He set us free, that we might follow you and love you more. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah 27 In the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, king of Judah. This word came to Jeremiah from the Lord. Thus says the Lord to me, thus the Lord said to me, Make yourself straps and yoke bars and put them on your neck. Send word to the king of Edom, the king of Moab. The king of the sons of Ammon, the king of Tyre, and the King of Sidon, by the hand of the envoys who have come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah, king of Judah. Give them this charge for their masters. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel. This is what you shall say to your masters. It is I, who by my great power and my outstretched arm have made the earth with the men and animals that are on the earth, and I give it to whomever it seems right to me Now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant, and I have given him also the beasts of the field to serve him. All the nations shall serve him and his son and his grandson until the time of his own land comes Then many nations and great kings shall make him their slave. But if any nation or kingdom will not serve this Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, So do not listen to your prophets, your diviners, your dreamers, your fortune-tellers, or your sorcerers who are saying to you, You shall not serve the king of Babylon, for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you, with the result that you will be removed far from your land, and I will drive you out and you you will perish. But any nation that will bring its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon and serve him, I will leave on its own land to work it and dwell there, declares the Lord. To Zedekiah, king of Judah, I spoke in like manner. Bring your necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon, and serve him and his people, and live. Why will you and your people die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, as the Lord has spoken concerning any nation that will not serve the king of Babylon? Do not listen to the words of the prophets who are saying to you, You shall not serve the king of Babylon, for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you. 'I have not sent them,' declares the Lord, 'but they are prophesying falsely in my name, with the result that I will drive you out And you will perish, you and the prophets who are prophesying to you. Then I spoke to the priest And to all this people, saying, Thus says the Lord, do not listen to the words of your prophets who are prophesying to you, saying, Behold the vessels of the Lord's house will now shortly be brought back from Babylon, for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you. Do not listen to them. Serve the king of Babylon and live Why should this city become a desolation? If they are prophets, and if the word of the Lord is with them, Then let them intercede with the Lord of hosts, that the vessels that are left in the house of the Lord, in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem, may not go to Babylon. For thus says the Lord of hosts, concerning the pillars, the sea, the stands, and the rest of the vessels that are left in the city, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon did not take away. When he took into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon, Jechoniah, the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem, thus says the Lord of hosts The God of Israel, concerning the vessels that are left in the house of the Lord, in the house of the king of Judah and in Jerusalem, they shall be carried. to Babylon, and remain there until the day when I visit them, declares the Lord, then I will bring them back and restore them to this place. That is Jeremiah 27. Once again, as we've seen so many times throughout Jeremiah, the Lord speaks. As the sovereign one, the one who rules over the affairs of all the nations. He's not just the God of Israel, the God of Judah. To the God of Jerusalem. He's not a local deity. Just as he's not only the God of the Christians and the God of the Christian faith today. We live in this pluralistic age In which people have this mixed up way of thinking, well, each religion has their own God, and their gods are faithful to them, and they're faithful to their gods, and that works well for them, and we have our God and his name is Jesus and No. There is only one God who is the maker of heaven and earth, and who is the sovereign Lord over all nations, those who acknowledge him and those who do not acknowledge him. Scripture is very clear All the gods of the nations are as nothing. They are nothing compared to the one true God. And if there's a spiritual reality behind the gods of this world, they are demonic spiritual realities. Demons are creatures made by the one true God, subject to the sovereign control of the one true God. So all of this is very clear in scripture. So today we come to a prophecy that comes at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah. This is about 597. Last time we had a date was about six hundred five, uh right after Nebuchadnezzar took the throne and the first year that he would come and conquer Jerusalem and take off captives. That's been it's been some years since that So, you know, less than 10 years, but it's been some years since that happened. And there are some prophets who are now coming around and saying Saying, ah, you don't really need to serve Nebuchadnezzar. Yeah, he came in here. Yeah, he defeated us. Yeah, he took off our king and nobles and leading officials and and the best and brightest of the youth of the land and and yes he's very very powerful but you know what? The Lord can set you free from his yoke. Or in other countries, other prophets of other gods were saying, you know, our God will set you And the sovereign Lord of heaven and earth reiterates something that he's already taught through the prophet Jeremiah, and that That is, he is the one running the show. He says in verse five, it is I who by my great power and my outstretched power arm, have made the earth with the men and animals that are on the earth, and I give it to whomever it seems right to me. Now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant and I have given him also the beasts of the field to serve him. All the nations shall serve him and his son and his grandson until the time of his own land comes, then many nations and great Kings shall make him their slave, and not Nebuchadnezzar himself personally, because he'll be dead by this time, but his land, his kingdom, his dynasty. God's so clear here, isn't he? The Lord is so clear He says, Don't listen to these prophets who say you don't need to serve him as and say that Yahweh is going to set us free from Nebuchadnezzar. I'm Yahweh, I've made everything, I rule over everything, and I've given it to Nebuchadnezzar I'm not going to deliver you out of the hands of the one I've given you into until the time comes. It's going to be him and then his son. And then his grandson, and then the time will come. And if you're familiar with the book of Daniel, his grandson Belshazzar was the one the vessels of the temple are made reference to here, how they're going to be carried off to Babylon. It's those very vessels of the temple. Daniel CHAPTER five, that Belshazzar is feasting and drinking to the gods of Babylon, using the vessels of the house of the Lord, when God hands hand appears and says, many, many peckle and parson, basically, time's up, dude. You've been weighed in the balance and found wanting, and your kingdom's going to be given So the Lord fulfills what Jeremiah 27, just go read Daniel 5, and you'll see that the Lord fulfills this exactly What he says here. He's the sovereign Lord. We don't need to be anxious and worried about political developments or the rise and fall of kingdoms. We need to be faithful to the Lord and Faithful to the Lord's calling in the situation where he has placed us. Now, was Nebuchadnezzar's kingdom the same as the kingdom of God? No. But did Nebuchadnezzar serve the Lord's purposes in the earth? Yes. So there's a way in which we can say it's the Lord's will when he raises up certain kingdoms and takes down other kingdoms. And he moves things according to his sovereign will, all things move according to his sovereign will. When Jesus was standing before Pontius Pilate in John nineteen And Pilate said, Don't you realize I have power to crucify you or power to release you? And Jesus said to him, You would have no power over me at all if it had not been given to you From above. And then later the Apostle Paul can write Romans, and in Romans 13, he could say of the pagan emperor of Rome, Nero, who would end up taking Paul's very life, he could say, of Nero, all human authorities are institutions. by God. So you should obey them as those who have been ordained by God. Does that make them flawless? No Does it make them always aligned with God's revealed will? No. But it makes them under God's sovereign will, under God's providential Will by which he rules over the kingdoms, and we can be thankful for such a sovereign God, and we can be faithful to such a sovereign God So whatever we are tempted to feel in our hearts concerning political realities or political developments or Kingdoms and nations of the world, we need to realize there's a higher view, there's an eternal perspective, and the sovereign Lord is in control, and King Jesus is on the throne. And we need to honor and obey the rightful governing authorities, but not absolutely, not as though they are God. Speak the truth to them, speak the truth to them in love, even as you honor them, keeping your eyes on Jesus. Jesus, the King of Kings, the one we saw yesterday in Revelation, is the dread, sovereign, holy, magnificent, powerful ruler over all the earth. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for such a king as Jesus. Thank you that you are the sovereign Lord over every nation. Every nation on earth was formed by you, every person on earth, every animal on earth formed by you, governed by you, sustained by you. ultimately judged by you as well. So help us to honor you, for you are worthy. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well that's Revelation. Not Revelation. Jeremiah 27. And tomorrow will be in Jeremiah 28. So come back for that. Have a blessed day. Lord.