Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with me on our 875th day. in the Word of God. We're in Jeremiah chapter 7. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this day that you've given to us. Thank you for another day of life. Thank you for another day to spend in your Word. Your Word is a rich treasure to us We are so thankful for it. We're thankful for your love and for your your son that you disclose to us through your word. Please show us our need for Christ and show us how he meets our need and strengthen our faith in him, we pray in Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Jeremiah seven. The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord. Stand in the gate of the Lord's house, and proclaim there this word And say, Hear the word of the Lord, all you men of Judah who enter these gates to worship the Lord Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Amend your ways and your deeds, and I will let you dwell in this place. Do not trust in these deceptive words. This is the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. For if you truly amend your ways and your deeds, if you truly execute justice one with another, If you do not oppress the sojourner, the fatherless, or the widow, or shed innocent blood in this place. And if you do not go after other gods to your harm, then I will let you dwell in this place. In the land that I gave of old to your fathers forever. Behold, you trust in deceptive words to no avail Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, make offerings to Baal, and go after other gods that you have not known, and then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, We are delivered? only to go on doing all these abominations? Has this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes Behold, I myself have seen it, declares the Lord. Go now to my place that was in Shiloh. where I made my name dwell at first, and see what I did to it because of the evil of my people Israel. And now Because you have done all these things, declares the Lord, and when I spoke to you persistently, you did not listen, and when I called you, you did not answer. Therefore I will do to the house that is called by my name, and in which you trust, and to the place that I gave to you and to your fathers, as I did to Shiloh. And I will cast you out of my sight As I cast out all your kinsmen, all the offspring of Ephraim. As for you, do not pray for this people. Or lift up a cry or prayer for them. And do not intercede with me, for I will not hear you. Do you not see what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? The children gather wood, the fathers kindle fire, and the women need dough to make cakes for the the Queen of Heaven, and they pour out drink offerings to other gods to provoke me to anger. Is it I whom they provoke, declares the Lord, is it not themselves to their own shame? Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, my anger and my wrath will be poured out on this place, upon man and beast, upon the trees of the field and the fruit of the ground, it will burn and not be quenched Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel. Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifice and eat the flesh. For in the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, I did not speak to your fathers or command them concerning burnt offerings and sacrifices, but this command I gave them, obey my voice. And I will be your God, and you shall be my people, and walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well with you. But they did not obey or incline their ear, but walked in their own counsels. And the stubbornness of their own evil hearts, and went backward and not forward. From the day that your fathers came out of the land of Egypt to this day, I have persistently sent All my servants, the prophets, to them, day after day, yet they did not listen to me, or incline their ear, but stiffened their neck. They did worse than their fathers So you shall speak all these words to them, but they will not listen to you. You shall call to them, but they will not answer you And you shall say to them, This is the nation that did not obey the voice of the Lord their God and did not accept discipline. Truth has perished. It is cut off from their lips. Cut off your hair and cast it away. Raise a lamentation on the bare heights, for the Lord has rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath. For the sons of Judah have done evil in my sight, declares the Lord. They have set their detestable things in the house that is called by my name to defile it. And they have built the high places of Tophith, which is in the valley of the sun of Hinnam, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire. Fire, which I did not command, nor did it come to my mind. Therefore, behold the days are coming, declares the Lord, when it will no more be called Tophith Or the valley of the Son of Hinnum, but the valley of slaughter. For they will bury in Tophith, because there is no room elsewhere And the dead bodies of this people will be food for the birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth, and none will frighten them away, and I will silence in the cities of Judah And in the streets of Jerusalem the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, for the land shall become A waste. That is Jeremiah 7. That is a a tough word. I mean there's a lot of tough words from the Lord in Jeremiah. well known as the weeping prophet. A Jeremiah has become a a type of preaching that is that is a preaching of judgment, a preaching of coming doom. If you don't repent, it's actually named after Jeremiah. So we have a lot of this in this book. What do we do with it? How do we understand it? Well, first of all, we need to understand. That God values, cherishes, loves the worship of his people The trust of his people, the heart of his people. God wants your heart. God wants my heart. God wants the heart of his people What he doesn't want, what he doesn't care for, is an outward form of religion that has no real depth of commitment, passion, faith, loyalty to it What was happening here in Jerusalem is people were saying, this is the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, and they were saying that as evidence that Jerusalem would never be taken captive, it would never be defeated, it would never be destroyed Because this is the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. That is a sign of an external and formalistic religion. It is a trust in outward things rather than in the eternal spiritual realities and the need for faith that those outward things are designed to point to. In the church today, we have this in sacramentalism. Sacramentalism, the sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper, they're given by the Lord for his church to be signs and seals of the covenant of grace, of of saving grace in Jesus Christ signs and seals, pictures and promises. Just as the temple was the symbolic representation of the truth that God dwells in the midst of his people, but God is spirit And has no body. And so he gave them a visible sign of an invisible grace in the temple. And so God has given us visible signs of invisible grace in baptism and the Lord's Supper. But just trusting in those things, saying, well, been baptized, well, took on the Lord's Supper, therefore I'm good to go. God's not going to judge me. It's just like being one of those in Jerusalem who says the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, because they have this external building that's standing. So Paul, the Apostle Paul, in 1 Corinthians 10, addresses this concern with trying to place faith in external things. And one of the things he calls out the people in Corinth for is exactly what was happening here in Jerusalem. And that is, you know, they go and they worship other gods, right? Look at this in verse 9. Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, make offerings to Baal, and go after other gods that you have not known, and then come and stand before me in this house which is called by my name, and say we are delivered only to go on doing these abominations? So, like I said, the Apostle Paul addresses these same concerns in the New Testament context in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, because they would eat. of sacrifices that had been offered to idols. They would share in the table of idols. They would also engage in sexual immorality. They would take each other to court for lawsuits. They were divisive, they were arrogant, and that they would come together and they would say, This is the table of the Lord, the table of the Lord, the table of the Lord. And so in 1 Corinthians 10 and 11, Paul gives us instruction for this, and part of what he calls us to in chapter 11 is you need to examine your heart. Are you trusting in Jesus? You need to discern the body. Do you understand that Jesus Himself, in his body and blood, is the one you need, not bread and wine But rather the bread and wine that, when taken by faith, become a participation in the body and blood of Christ. So we need to beware of externalism. Externalism, one manifestation of it is sacramentalism, trusting in baptism, trusting in the Lord's Supper rather than trusting in you. Jesus himself. Another form of externalism is simply nominalism, nominal Christianity, saying, Oh I'm a Christian, yes. Oh I believe in Jesus, he's the Son of God, yes. And it makes no difference in our lives whatsoever. We don't go to church, we don't read the Bible, we don't pray, we don't seek to live lives that conform to God's Word. We are simply nominal Christians. That means in-name-only Christians. That's another form of externalism. Such a faith that's no real faith at all cannot save you. Neither can just taking the outward signs save you. And the third one is going to church, participating, and thinking that by going to church and participating, you are going to then Prosper spiritually, win favor from God, be delivered, right? That's exactly what they're doing here in Jerusalem So I think we could say a lot in this chapter, but I think this is one of the most important takeaways we need to have, and that is that we cannot give in to external Jesus confronted externalism in his day, and so Jeremiah 7. 11 is quoted in the Gospels Here, the Lord says, has this house which is called by my name become a den of robbers in your eyes? And this chapter 11, this is basic this verse 11 of chapter 7 is basically quoted by Jesus when he says, You have made my house, my father's house, a den of robbers. And what were they doing? They were selling ritually clean animals that you could buy using temple currency, and they would change the money for you into temple currency. They were profiting. Off of allowing people to make a good show of their faith. You were supposed to bring your own animal from your own flocks and herds to sacrifice the firstborn, the spotless ones Here they just had it for sale. You could buy it. Just bring the right just bring bring money with you and then they'll exchange it into the right money that you could then use to buy the animals and they make a profit and you can keep up appearances. Externalism is antithetical to the real gospel. It is, it is poison, spiritual poison to the people of God. And we need to stay far away from it. Because the Lord brings judgment. Judgment by removing the light, judgment by making a church spiritually impotent. judgment by removing his favor. And so it can lead to, for unbelievers, it can lead to a false sense of salvation. Because you've been baptized, because you've taken the Lord's Supper, but you don't really believe. And for believers, it can become Uh weakening our faith and subjecting us to the Lord's discipline. So we need to be more like Jesus. Jesus drove externalism out of the temple of the Lord Jesus called for repentance and faith, just as Jeremiah here is calling for repentance and faith. All this language about warning about destruction is so that God's people will wake up. And we'll repent. That's what the Lord is calling us to today. Anything we trust in that's not Jesus, set it aside. Confess to Him that He alone can save us, and cling to Him for salvation Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you that we have everything we need for life and salvation. in your Son and our Savior. We don't find these things in just going to church or just eating communion. We're just calling ourselves Christians. We find these things in Jesus Christ, your Son, as we trust in him and not in ourselves or anything else. else. So help us to trust in Jesus. Strengthen our faith in him. We pray this in Jesus' name and for his glory in his church and in our lives. Amen. Amen. Well, that's Jeremiah 7. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 8. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.