Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel, and it is day 926, and we're back in the prophet Jeremiah. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It is truth, every part of it. Please write your word on our hearts. Please help us to walk with you by faith. Please help us to see Jesus and his purposes for our lives more clearly, that we might be more faithful followers. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we're here in Jeremiah 41, and last time we were here a couple days ago, uh, you got a preview that Gedaliah was going to be murdered. And remember from the last chapter that um it was uh Johannon, the son of Korea, who came to Gedaliah. Gedaliah was appointed governor by the Babylonians to be over Judah and Johannan, the son of Korea, came to Galiah and said, Baalas, king of the Ammonites, is sending Ishmael, son of Nephaniah, to take your life. But Gedalih wouldn't believe him. He didn't want to be scared. He didn't want to be he didn't want to act unrighteously. At this point it would have been unrighteous. to let him go and strike down Ishmael son of Nephaniah because at this point Ishmael had not done anything wrong. But it turns out that Johannin was not wrong. So let's pick up the story here in chapter 41. In the seventh month, Ishmael, the son of Nephaniah, son of Elishema, of the royal family, one of the chief officers of the king, came with ten men to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikim, at Mizpah, and they ate bread together there at Mizpah. Ishmael the son of Nathaniah and the ten men who were with him arose up and struck down Gedalih the son of Ahikim, son of Shaphan, with the sword, and killed him, whom the king of Babylon had appointed governor in the land. Ishmael also struck down all the Judeans who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah and the Chaldean soldiers who happened to be there. On the day after the murder of Gedaliah, before anyone knew of it, eighty men arrived from Shechem and Shiloh and Samaria with their beards shaved and their clothes torn and their bodies gashed, bringing grain offerings and incense to present at the temple of the Lord And Ishmael, the son of Nephaniah, came out from Mizpah to meet them, weeping as he came. As he met them, he said to them, Come in to Gedaliah the son of Ahikim. When they came into the city, Ishmael the son of Nephaniah and the men with him slaughtered them and cast them into a cistern. But there were ten men among them, who said to Ishmael, Do not put us to death, for we have stores of wheat, barley, oil, and honey hidden in the fields. So he refrained, and did not put them to death with their companions. Now the cistern into which Ishmael had thrown all the bodies of the men whom he had struck down along with Gedaliah was the large cistern that King Asa had made. For defense against Baeesha, King of Israel. Ishmael the son of Nathaniah filled it with the slain Then Ishmael took captive all the rest of the people who were in Mizbah, the king's daughters, and all the people who were left at Mizbah, whom Nebu Zaradon, the captain of the guard, had committed to Gedaliah, the son of Ahitam Ishmael, the son of Nephaniah, took them captive and set out to cross over to the Ammonites. But when Johannon, the son of Kariah, And all the leaders of the forces with him heard of all the evil that Ishmael the son of Nephaniah had done, they took all their men and went to fight against Ishmael. the son of Nathaniah. They came upon him at the great pool that is in Gibeon, and when all the people who were with Ishmael saw Johannon, the son of Korea, and all the leaders of the forces with him, they rejoiced. So all the people whom Ishmael had carried away captive from Mizpah turned around and came back and went to Johannon the son of Korea. But Ishmael, the son of Nephaniah, escaped from Johann with eight men and went to the Ammonites Then Johannon, the son of Koreah, and all the leaders of the forces with him, took from Mizpah and all the rest of the people, whom he had recovered from Ishmael, the son of Nephaniah, after he had struck down Gedalih the son of Ahikim, soldiers, women, children, eunuchs, whom Johannon had brought back from Gibeon. And they went and stayed at Gareth Chinam, near Bethlehem intending to go to Egypt because of the Chaldeans, for they were afraid of them, because Ishmael the son of Nathaniah had struck down Gedaliah the son of Ahikim, whom the king of Babylon had made governor over the land. So sometimes, you know, my dad used to have a saying that he told me growing up, just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not out to get you. Um Johanna knew something was up with Ishmael, and he may have sounded a bit paranoid when he talked to Gedaliah. and get alive did not want to do evil. He did not want to cause war, civil war. He didn't want to kill somebody who to this point just appeared to be a faithful soldier uh in the army Of Judah, but it turns out that Johannem was right. And Ishmael uh uh by by doing the right thing, by not acting out of fear and taking matters into his own hands, he comes he comes to a brutal end here. And Ishmael, the son of Nathaniah He's one of the royal family, which means he's probably thinking that if he plays his cards right and kills the right people and puts himself in the right position, especially with this alliance with the Ammonites, that he can re-establish the Davidic kingship. He can re-establish the kingship over Jerusalem and Judah. It's very, very foolish because there's no way the Babylonians are going to allow that. And there's no way that the Ammonites are a powerful enough ally to resist the Babylonians. So even on a human level Uh Ishmael's thinking is is foolish beyond doubt. I don't think it's a coincidence that his name is Ishmael, which is the name of the other son of Abraham. the son according to the flesh. You know, Abraham had Ishmael when he decided to take things into his own hands and make things happen. And that's the kind of guy Ishmael is. He's a man of the flesh. He's a man of earthly politics. He's a man who decides to try to take things into his own hands and make things happen. He's not trusting the Lord. Um, and so he's accomplishing evil. in this selfish, fleshly way of acting. And boy is he brutal. He kills all sorts of people. Um first of all he's invited by by the governor uh t to pr to eat bread together. They're they're sharing a meal together. And he's got ten guys with him. And these eleven people, they get up and they strike down. Gedaliah, the governor, um, and everybody else who's there, all the Judeans who are there. These are eleven powerful guys, but also nobody else is expecting a fight. Like nobody else is ready to go. And so these guys are really just surprising them and and springing on them. And so so much so this element of surprise that you've got eighty men who are coming on pilgrimage, probably for the feast of booths But they're coming on pilgrimage to offer to the Lord, and again these eleven guys, it seems, they may have picked up a few more, um, they they slaughter these eighty men because these guys are probably unarmed or they You know, they're all their weapons are packed away, they're not carrying them, they're not ready for battle, uh, they're coming to worship. And and Ishmael is appearing to be welcoming them for worship and for fellowship and for the festival. And He's he's just brutal. He just slaughters all these people, throws them all into this great big cistern. It was a cistern that we're giving a little bit of history here. Asa, um, this is going way back a couple hundred years. um to when Baesha, king of Israel, came down to fight against um Asa, uh a much earlier king. So they're just explaining which cistern it is, which people of the day would have known known where that was. If you want to read up more on that, it's in 1 Kings 15. But uh man, it's terrible. And then there's ten guys who kind of save their own neck by saying, hey, we've got stuff we can give you that's That's worth something. We've got stores of wheat, barley, oil, and honey, but they're hidden. So if you kill us, you're not going to get it. And so they know how to negotiate with Ishmael. Ishmael's a self-seeking self serving, fleshly, earthly, politically minded guy, so they know there's no way you're not gonna plead for mercy and get mercy. You're not gonna plead for justice or for or to the Lord, you know, call upon the name of the Lord and have him honor that in any way. Anyway, no, it's it's earthly political dealings. Oh, we'll give you some some stuff if you don't kill us. And so they're they're spared. But then as he's going. He's going to take everything that he has, take all the people he's captured, and he's going to go over to the Ammonites, because that's his that's his game plan We're going to go to the Ammonites. They've sent him because they want to try to bring Judah into their circle of influence. And as they're doing that, here comes Johannan. Johannon's a great hero in this story. He comes from uh He comes from uh Gibeon, which is about three miles away, and uh they well they meet him at the pool that's at Gibeon, and They get there and they they defeat Johannan and they rescue the captives. But Johannan escapes with uh um with a small group of guys and they're able to get away. And then now Johannan, who is a hero to this point To this point he's a hero. He's the one who understood what was gonna happen, who tried to save the governor from it, and then who got revenge. He's thinking, and the people who are with him are thinking The Babylonians are gonna come and they're gonna just slaughter people because we've killed the governor. Even though they themselves didn't kill the governor, the guy who killed the governor has escaped to the Ammonites. They don't think they're gonna be able to explain this to the to the Babylonians, they don't think there's any way out And so they're getting ready to flee to Egypt. And you can see the title of the next chapter that we're going to look at tomorrow, but we'll not get ahead of ourselves. So what do we do with this chapter? This is one of those chapters where honestly as a Bible teacher I think, okay, this is a this is a great piece of history. And there's a lot happening here. But what does this have to do with Jesus? What does this have to do with us as Christians? Um and I you know, I as I've thought about this, I think it's What's been impressed upon my heart and mind is to think we need to not be thinking like Ishmael in a selfish, fleshly this worldly political materialistic way. We need to not be operating out of that kind of a mindset It's easy to fall into that mindset. We can say, well, I know about these spiritual truths, and I know about the promises of God and I know about the purposes of God, but I've got to take care of practical realities. You know, somebody's got to do this thing that needs to be done. And you know, we gotta make this happen. We gotta make this happen. Don't be an Ishmael. Right? The original Ishmael, son of Abraham, is a lesson not to take things into your own hands. And I think that's the same thing we see from this Ishmael. He thinks I'm going to re-establish the Davidic dynasty. I'm going to get us independence from the Babylonians. We're going to get we're going to make this thing happen. And that doesn't work And I know in my own life, whenever I've tried to be controlling, whenever I've tried to really make things happen the way that I think they should happen, and I'm not really seeking the Lord, I'm not really depending on him, it's a it's a disaster. It doesn't go well. And God has to continually teach me this lesson. Not by might, not by uh power, but by my spirit, says the Lord. It is not the flesh that accomplishes, it's the Holy Spirit who accomplishes. The anger of man does not achieve the righteousness of God. The book of James tells us. Man makes his plans, but the Lord directs his steps. Proverbs tells us we need to rely on the Lord. Lord for whatever. Future of our culture, future of our family, salvation of our children, the good of the church. We need to rely on the Lord, seek the Lord in prayer, seek to honor the Lord with our actions. Does that mean everything's going to go great for us? Not necessarily, because God's purposes may not include things going great for us in the way that we would define it. But it will be good because God's ways are better than our ways. God sees more than we see. God intends better than we intend. So big lesson from today. Don't be an Ishmael I'd like to be able to say be a Johanna, but no, we can't even do that. We need to trust the Lord. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we think about your Son Jesus Christ and how he entrusted himself to you. He didn't call down 10,000 angels to take him off of the cross and strike down his enemies. He submitted to your will, even though it was very, very difficult for him. involved intense suffering that we cannot even begin to imagine. But it was good. It was right. It was for the ultimate good of your people, it was for the ultimate glory of your name. So help us to walk with Jesus, to follow Jesus in trusting you. Take up our cross daily. Follow Jesus in trusting you and not taking things into our own hands. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 41. Tomorrow we're going to go on to Jeremiah 42. And as always I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.