Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you. Glad you could join me. We're on day 872 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We're back in the Prophet Jeremiah today, Jeremiah chapter 5. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is truth and life We need every part of your word. The parts that encourage us, the parts that convict us, the parts that challenge us, the parts that transform us by your grace, by the power of your Holy Spirit. Lord, would you please write Jeremiah five on our hearts, that we might hear what you're saying to us, that we might respond to your call by your Spirit, that we might trust in Christ. We pray this in his name. Amen. All right, Jeremiah chapter 5. Run to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem. Look and take note. Search her squares to see if you can find a man, one who does justice and seeks truth, that I may pardon her. Though they say as the Lord lives, yet they swear falsely. O Lord, do not your eyes look for truth. You have struck them down, but they felt no anguish. You have consumed them, but they refused to take correction They have made their faces harder than a rock. They have refused to repent. Then I said, These are only the poor. They have no sense, for they do not know the way of the Lord, the justice of their God. God, I will go to the great and will speak to them, because they know the way of the Lord, the justice of their God. But they all alike had broken the yoke, they had burst the bonds Therefore, a lion from the forest shall strike them down, a wolf from the desert shall devastate them, a leopard is watching their cities. Everyone who goes out of them shall be torn in pieces, because their transgressions are many, their apostasies are great. How can I pardon you? Your children have forsaken me and have sworn by those who are no gods. When I fed them to the full, they committed adultery and trooped to the houses of whores. They are well fed lusty stallions, each neighing for his neighbor's wife. Shall I not punish them for these things, declares the Lord, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this? Go through her vine rose and destroy, but make not a full end. Strip away her branches, for they are not the Lord's For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have been utterly treacherous to me, declares the Lord. They have spoken falsely of the Lord And have said, He will do nothing. The prophets will become wind. The word is not in them. Thus shall it be done to them. Therefore, thus says the Lord the God of hosts, because you have spoken this word. Behold, I am making my words in your mouth a fire And this people would, and the fire shall consume them. Behold, I am bringing against you a nation from afar, O house of Israel, declares the Lord. It is an enduring nation, it is an ancient nation. A nation whose language you do not know, nor can you understand what they say. Their quiver is like an open womb. They are all mighty warriors They shall eat up your harvest and your food. They shall eat up your sons and your daughters. They shall eat up your flocks and your herds. They shall eat up your vines and your fig trees, your fortified cities in which you trust. They shall beat you down with the sword But even in those days, declares the Lord, I will not make a full end of you. And when your people say, Why has the Lord our God done all these things to us? you shall say to them, As you have forsaken me and served foreign gods in your land, so you shall serve foreigners in a land that is not yours. Declare this in the house of Jacob, proclaim it in Judah, hear this, O foolish and senseless people, men who have eyes but see not, who have ears but hear not. Do you not fear me? declares the Lord. Do you not tremble before me? I placed the sand as the boundary for the sea, a perpetual barrier that it cannot pass. Though the waves toss, they cannot prevail. Though they roar, they cannot pass over it. But this people has a stubborn and rebellious heart. They have turned aside and gone away. They do not say in their hearts, let us fear the Lord our God who gives the rain in its season. the autumn rain and the spring rain, and keeps for us the weeks appointed for the harvest. Your iniquities have turned these away, and your sins have kept good from you. For wicked men are found among my people. They lurk like fowlers lying in wait, they set a trap, they catch men. Like a cage full of birds, their houses are full of deceit, therefore they have become great and rich. They have grown fat and sleek. They know no bounds in deeds of evil. They judge not with justice the cause of the fatherless to make it prosper, and they do not defend the rights of the needy Shall I not punish them for these things, declares the Lord? And shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this? An appalling and horrible thing has happened in the land. The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests rule at their direction. My people love to have it so. But what will you do when the end comes? That is Jeremiah chapter 5. People don't change in the fact that human nature doesn't change. change, right? People, individual people can change, but only by the grace of God granting repentance. Human nature The human condition doesn't change. We are sinful, we are stubborn, we are rebellious, we are foolish, hard-hearted, thick-headed. And that's what's on display here in this chapter. And it can be uncomfortable to read at times the just just the truth of what's happening here. God sends Jeremiah on a mission to try to find somebody Who does justice and seeks truth. Does this remind you of anything? It should. Sodom and Gomorrah. Remember when Abraham pleaded with the Lord not to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah because Lot was there? And the Lord said, well, maybe if there's 50 righteous, I won't destroy them. And then he negotiates with God. If there's 20, if there's 10. If you can find ten righteous people, I won't destroy the city. Now, that was Sodom and Gomorrah. This is Jerusalem. This is Jerusalem. And God says, go ahead, see if you can find a man who does justice and seeks truth, that I might forgive Jerusalem Well, everybody speaks the name of the Lord in Jerusalem unlike they did in Sodom and Gomorrah. But nowhere does Jeremiah find a person who practices righteousness injustice. He sees this, first of all, among the poor, who don't have sense, who don't know the way of the Lord, who don't know the justice of their God. He says, well, of course they're not going to be able to do it because they can't even read. They don't know the law. They don't have the law. I'm going to go to the rulers, to the great people, because they know the way of the Lord. They know the justice of their God. But they all alike had broken the yoke and burst the bonds. That means what God had wanted to restrain them from, they said, no way, forget it. We're not going to be restrained by God. you. Now Sodom and Gomorrah, Jerusalem, in Jesus' day he comes And he pronounces woes on the cities of Jerusalem, of Israel, of his day. Woe to you, Beth Seda. Woe to you, Khorazan And he says, For if the works that have been done in your myths had been done in Sodom and Gomorrah, they would have repented long ago and done So when Jesus comes as one who is a greater prophet than Jeremiah, who comes doing works of greater miraculous power than Jeremiah was ever able to do Still, he finds unbelief, rebellion. They do not want, God's people do not want to bear the yoke And still to this day, I find that among professing Christian people, among church-going people, far too often it is the case. That you can speak in the name of the Lord, you can speak about the goodness of God, you can speak about the love of God, you can speak about the grace of God, you can speak about the kindness of God, all of that, and they'll want to hear it. But if you talk about the law of God and the commandments of God, and if you call them out particularly on sin of which they are likely guilty, the idols of our culture, the sin of their heart, oftentimes they're like, ah, you're being legalistic. You're being, you know, and I'm not saying that happens with our church at Forrest Hill. I'm very, very thankful to have a wonderful congregation at Forest Hill that wants to hear the Word of God preached. But very many Christians do not want to be confronted about their sin. If you call them out for, let's say, political idolatry, they'll say, Oh, you know, what are you, some kind of liberal or something? It's like, no, that's not the point of what I was talking about at all. Well, you call them out for cultural compromise. They're like, oh, that's just unrealistic. We have to live in the world, you know. Or if you call them out for for um violating the law of God in very specific ways, like taking the Lord's name in vain or violating the Sabbath day. They'll say, oh that's legalistic. You're just being legalistic Right? And why is it? What is it all these things have in common? They all alike had broken the yoke, they had burst the bonds. God's people, even the ones who call upon the name of the Lord, don't want to be limited They don't want to be controlled. They don't want to be harnessed by the Word of God to be kept from idolatry or to be kept from open and blatant sin against God. There's consequences for that. If we will not have God rule over us, there's consequences for that. There's devastation that's coming. And the devastation that's prophesied in Jeremiah 5 is a foreign power is going to come in and is going to take over. But there's going to be a time when when lions come from the forest, a wolf from the desert will destroy them. Now this could be metaphorical and talking about foreign powers. But it could also be the fact that, you know, when Assyria came in earlier in Israel's history under the prophet Isaiah And they devastated the southern cities of Judah. When you when you depopulate an area through foreign conquest, lions and wolves and leopards Natural predator animals come in more boldly because there's not the same kind of flourishing human civilization that would be there otherwise. And so you can be subject to attacks from the wilderness. So this may be a reference to some of the surrounding nations, like the Edomites coming in or the Midianites coming in, or it could just be literally a reference to the wild animals that come in. And the cause of it is going to be the Babylonian destruction. Throughout all of Jeremiah's reign. Or it's not rain throughout all of Jeremiah's prophetic ministry. He doesn't reign. He's a prophet. Um while he's speaking, Babylon comes again and again and again. They come like three separate times. And they conquer Judah and they conquer Jerusalem and they take off exiles. They come and they conquer Jerusalem, they conquer Judah, they take off exiles. The third time they come, it's just like, forget it, wipe it out. And that's 586. Jeremiah lives through all of that. And so that is that is the consequence that's coming. Part of the reason why they're coming is because God's people are sexually immoral. We live in a very, very sexually promiscuous and immoral age. And many professing Christians, many people among God's people. are either hooked on pornography or they're watching completely inappropriate things that cause them to lust after People who are not their husband or wife, or they're adulterous, they're sexually immoral. Getting divorced, leaving their spouses for for an adulterous relationship, yes, even among professing Christians and church-going Christians And so God brings judgment. He brought judgment on Judah, but it wasn't a full end. It wasn't a full end. Okay. God did not utterly destroy because he loves his people, but their presumption Verse 12 and 13. They presume upon the grace of God, upon the goodness of God. He will do nothing, no disaster will come upon us, nor shall we see sword or famine. Ah, we don't have to worry about that. No. God says you're going to speak this way, I'm going to make the word of God that comes through the prophet Jeremiah a fire, and you're going to be wood and and you're going to be consumed. Because this nation is going to come from afar. This nation speaking a language you do not know. This is where we get our word babble. You know, Babel, babbling of a baby, nonsense talk. It comes from Babylon and the Tower of Babel, even back to that point. But the Babylonians, they spoke a language that the people of Judah did not understand. And they are an ancient nation. They are an enduring nation. They do trace their origins all the way back to the Tower of Babel in Genesis 11, hundreds and hundreds of years before Jeremiah the prophet. And they're coming. And they're going to consume and they're going to captive. They're going to take captive. They're going to consume your harvest and your food, and they're going to capture your sons and daughters. So they will eat up, they will devour, and they will deport. Devour the produce of the land and deport the people of the land. And all the fortified cities we trust in. Will we not be able to stand before this conquering enemy? The idols that we trust in, the worldly things that we trust in, will not stand if God brings his judgment against his people. Now he doesn't bring an absolute end. He does so because he wants his people to turn to him. But they're not turning to him. And in verse 21, he declares a very stunning thing. He's compared them at the beginning here to Sodom and Gomorrah, and unfavorably so. Here in verse 21, he says, Hear this, O foolish and senseless people, who have eyes but see not, who have ears but hear not. Does that sound familiar? That is standard biblical language for describing idols. And the warring in scripture is always that if you worship an idol, you'll become like the idol because you become like what you worship. And so the people are now like idols. They have eyes, but they don't see. They have ears, but they don't hear. Just like the idols. They don't fear before God, they don't tremble before Him, even though He is absolutely in control of everything. They do not say, verse 24, in their hearts, Let us fear the Lord our God, who gives rain in its season. They're looking to false gods for rain. Your iniquities, your sins, turned these things away from you, kept good from you. Wicked men are in your midst, and you are not pursuing what you know is right. We need to hear this. God's not going to destroy his people and set us aside. God's not going to disown us, but God does discipline. In the New Testament, God talks about how willful rebellion, idolatry, sin. can lead to personal disciplinary consequences, even harsh ones, getting sick and even dying, but also of consequences for the church. I'll remove your lampstand, he threatens in Revelation I will come against you. So we need to hear these things, and we need to examine our hearts, and we need to repent. We need to not love our sin. We need to not love being lied to. We need to love the truth, even when it hurts. pray. Heavenly Father, your truth is what we need to hear. We don't need to hear lies. Even if they're pleasant to hear, we need to hear the truth. Give us ears to hear, give us eyes to see. Don't let us become like the idols, blind and deaf. Let us see and hear your word and respond by faith and fear you as your holy people. Pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Well, thank you for joining me for Jeremiah chapter 5. Tomorrow we are going on to chapter 6, Lord willing. Hopefully, you can join me for that. Have a blessed day. In the Lord.