Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and we are here in Jeremiah chapter one at the beginning of this great book here on Day number 866 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we begin this wonderful book together. Father in heaven, you are so good. Your word is so good. Every part of your word is good. Thank you for this book, this prophet, the ways that it will challenge us and comfort us and by your spirit change us. Change us by your spirit. to know Jesus and to walk more closely with him. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Jeremiah chapter one. The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, one of the priests who were at Anathoth in the land of Benjamin. To whom the word of the Lord came in the days of Josiah, the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign. It came also, again, in the days of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, and until the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month. Now the word of the Lord came to me saying, Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. And before you were born, I consecrated you. I appointed you a prophet to the nations. Then I said, Ah, Lord God, behold, I do not know how to speak, for I am only a youth. But the Lord said to me, Do not say I am only a youth For to all to whom I send you you shall go, and whatever I command you, you shall speak. Do not be afraid of them. For I am with you to deliver you, declares the Lord. Then the Lord put out his hand and touched my mouth, and the Lord said to me, Behold, I have put my words in your mouth See, I have set you this day over nations and over kingdoms to pluck up and to break down, to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant. And the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Jeremiah, what do you see? And I said, I see an almond branch. Then the Lord said to me, You have seen well, for I am watching over my word to perform it. The word of the Lord came to me and said And I said, I see a boiling pot facing away from the north. Then the Lord said to me, Out of the north disaster shall be let loose on all the inhabitants of the land, for behold, I am calling all the tribes of the kingdoms of the north, declares the Lord, and they shall come, and every one shall set his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem, against its walls all around, and against all the cities of Judah, and I will declare my judgments against them for all their evil in forsaking me They have made offerings to other gods and worship the works of their own hands, but you dress yourself for work Arise and say to them everything that I command you. Do not be dismayed by them, lest I dismay you before them. And I, behold, I make you this day a fortified city, an iron pillar, and bronze walls against the whole land. against the kings of Judah, its officials, its priests, and the people of the land. They will fight against you, but they shall not prevail against you, for I am with you, declares the Lord, to deliver you. That is Jeremiah chapter 1. Now, Jeremiah is one of my favorite books of the Bible. And you might not know that. It might not surprise you to hear me say it's one of my favorite books of the Bible. But of course, I have a son named Jeremiah And Jeremiah is not one of my favorite books of the Bible because I have a son named Jeremiah, but I have a son named Jeremiah because Jeremiah is one of my favorite books. of the Bible. Prophet Jeremiah, uh, who later says that he cannot he cannot stop from crying out because the word of God is shut up like a fire in his bones. And here in Jeremiah 1, this wonderful picture of before I formed you in the womb, I knew you and I called you. And then of course we have the new covenant promise that we're going to be a while before we get there, but in Jeremiah 31 and 32, we have the covenant promise of the new covenant with the promise of a new heart given to us in Jeremiah. It's just a wonderful, wonderful book. And then Jeremiah himself was a prophet who, in the beginning of his ministry, served alongside one of my favorite kings, probably my favorite king of the Old Testament, and that is Josiah. He's named here at the beginning. The word of the Lord began to come to Jeremiah during the days of Josiah, the son of Amon. And just like Isaiah had a uh a very special relationship with Hezekiah. a good king. So Jeremiah had a special relationship with Josiah, another good king, two of the best kings, Hezekiah and Josiah. probably the two best kings after David in the whole Old Testament, and much more morally upright than David in many ways. Um, but they both had these major prophets, Isaiah and Jeremiah, with them. So let's take a look at some of the dates as a background for Jeremiah's life and ministry. So he begins his ministry. Under the kingship of Josiah, and Josiah is king from 627 to 609. Josiah is a boy when he becomes king. And so he's still pretty young when he's killed in battle in 609, which is a very dark day for Judah as well as for Jeremiah. And we have The reference in chapter 1, we also have the section from chapter 3. 6 to chapter 630 that comes under Josiah. And then he's prophesying under Jehoahaz and Jehoiakim, and their king from 609, just briefly, and then taken off the throne, and Jehoiakim replaces him. And he's king for about 12 years from 609 to 597. And we have chapter 7, chapter 12, 25, 26, 35, 36, 45, 46, 47, 48, that all come during this reign of Jehoiakim mostly. And then Jehoiakin takes the throne just very briefly before he's deposed, and Zedekiah becomes the last king of Jerusalem before the fall to Babylon. And a large portion of Jeremiah's prophecies, including all this stuff about the new covenant, comes under, mostly under Zedekiah's kingship, the last king. before the fall of Jerusalem. And then the fall of Jerusalem. And Jeremiah prophesies about this in chapters forty to forty four, and then also in the book of Lamentations. Another reason why Jeremiah is a favorite prophet of mine is that he wrote Lamentations. which is like just a beautiful, powerful book written about the fall of Jerusalem. Some of these kings, you see, served very short periods of time, and that's because the Babylonian conquest is beginning and it comes in in waves. And sometimes what Babylon does is come in and take one king off the throne and replace him with another who's basically a puppet king, a vassal king, and that goes on for an extended period of time until 586. And it's during one of these transitions um of kings that Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego are taken off into exile. So Jeremiah is a prophet during that period of time too, when Daniel And Shabbat, Meshach, and Abednego are taken off in exile. Ezekiel's also taken off in exile, so Jeremiah is a contemporary with Ezekiel as well as with Daniel during his early years. So what do we hear here in Jeremiah chapter 1? First of all, we hear the sovereign call of God. Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. Notice God's personal forming in the womb. The life in the womb is being formed by God. I know we saw this in Ecclesiastes just a few days ago, but it's a very important teaching of Scripture, and it's there very clearly. I knew you means I loved you, I chose you, I set my heart upon you. When the Bible says, when God says I knew you or I know you, it doesn't just mean cognitively I know about you, because God knows about everything and everybody When he says, I know you, he means you are mine. And in this case, he says, I consecrated you and appointed you to be a prophet to the nations. Imagine that before he was born, he was called and consecrated to be a prophet to the nations. And he says, I don't know how to speak, for I'm only a youth. And God, much like he does with Isaiah, remember Isaiah chapter 6? A seraphim takes a coal from the altar and anoints the lips of Isaiah so that he can speak the word of God. God puts out his hand and touches Jeremiah's mouth so that he can speak. And he tells him, Don't be afraid. He says, Don't you be afraid. Don't let one look down on you because you're young. You go where I tell you, you speak what I command you. Don't you be afraid. I'm with you to deliver you. I've put my words in your mouth. I've set you over nations and kingdoms to pluck up and break down, to destroy and overthrow, to build in a plant. There is nothing more powerful in this world than to be called to speak the Word of God, because the Word of God is the most powerful thing in the world. And that is a very humbling and very comforting thought as someone who is called to preach the word and to teach. My words have no power whatsoever. I have opinions on such a wide variety of things, but I my opinions are just the same as anybody else's opinions about anything. The Word of God is powerful The Word of God uproots and breaks down and overthrows and builds and plants. And if we speak the word of God faithfully, particularly those of us who are called by God to do so, if we will speak the word of God faithfully, Proclaim it boldly. Don't be afraid of people. This is something I have to know. When I'm getting ready to preach a sermon, I've got hard things to say to a congregation whom I dearly love. I don't want to offend people because I love them. But I can't be afraid of them and hold back from speaking the truth. That's the call. The call is to love people enough to speak the truth, even if they may despise you for it So, then God begins to bring visions to Jeremiah. What do you see? What do you see? The first thing he sees is an almond branch. The word almond is shaked and the word watching over is shoked. So it's a play on words here. I've seen an almond branch, a shaked. And the Lord says, you've seen well, for I am watching over my word. I'm shoked my word to perform it. God will cause His word to bear fruit. This almond branch reminds me of two things. First of all, just the day before yesterday, right, we were in The end of Ecclesiastes and growing old is like the hair turning gray is the almond branch, the almond tree in bloom, right? And then the other one is um Aaron's staff that budded, what did it do? It budded and it bore ripe almonds. So the almond tree, the almond branch, is God watching over, God keeping. God watches over us when we're young and when we're old, and God brings forth fruit from his word as he sees fit. God will watch over his word. to perform it. We don't need to say, this is God's word, let me try to make it happen. No, God will make it happen by his timing and to his glory. And then the word of the Lord comes a second time, and it's a boiling pot facing away from the north. And this is the prediction of disaster that's going to come through Babylon. And it's not just Babylon, all the tribes of the kingdoms of the north, the Babylonians, the Chaldeans, the Medes, the Persians, the Hittites, all of these peoples are going to be reunited under the Babylonian Empire and they're going to come And they're going to bring judgment. Why are they going to bring judgment? We're told very, very clearly in verse sixteen, I will declare my judgments against them. That is the people of Judah, that is the people of God, that is Jeremiah's own country mates. For all their evil in forsaking me, they have made offerings to other gods and worshiped the works of their own hands. Jeremiah has to speak a hard word, just like Isaiah had to speak a hard word, a word of judgment to his neighbors, to his family, to his country. For idolatry, for faithlessness. He's going to have to speak it. And it will at times be overwhelming as a burden to him And it will bring him tears, it will bring him sorrow, it will bring him persecution, but he will be kept by the Lord, and he will stay faithful. God says, I've made you a fortified city. I've made you an iron pillar and bronze walls. They'll fight against you, but they're not going to prevail against you because I am with you to deliver you. We need to believe that. We need to believe that in a culture, a country, that is turning its back on the Lord increasingly day after day and going after madness and fighting against God's created order, fighting against reason itself. We need to speak the Word of God clearly. We need to proclaim the name of the Lord and the Word of the Lord. And even within the church where people are prone to worship idols, we need to speak the Word of God clearly and plainly and allow the Lord to be the judge and a protector of his people. Because he will. He'll be faithful. We can trust him. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word, perfect, complete, lacking nothing, powerful, effective, accomplishing everything you purpose for it May your word bear fruit in our lives and through our lives to those you call us to speak it to today. We pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Amen. That is Jeremiah chapter 1, the beginning of a wonderful book. I hope that you will be with us as we continue through this book in the weeks to come, and I hope that you have a blessed day in the