Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Ben Femmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian. Church. On our 887th day together in the Word of God, we come to Jeremiah chapter 15. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good always. consistently faithful, gracious to us. So please speak to us through Jeremiah 15 today. We have some difficult things to think about today. And some challenging things, but also the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and the gospel. And so we thank you for that. And we pray that you would write this word on our hearts in Jesus' name Amen. Jeremiah chapter fifteen. Then the Lord said to me, Though Moses and Sam Samuel stood before me. Yet my heart would not turn toward this people. Send them out of my sight and let them go Go. And when they ask you where shall we go, you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord, those who are for pestilence to pestilence, and those who are for the sword to the sword. Those who are for famine to famine, and those who are for captivity to captivity. I will appoint over them four kinds of destroyers, declares the Lord. the sword to kill, the dogs to tear, the birds of the air, and the beasts of the earth to devour and destroy. And I will make them a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth because of what Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah, king of Judah, did in Jerusalem Jerusalem. Who will have pity on you, O Jerusalem? Or who will grieve for you? Will you turn aside and ask about your welfare? You have rejected me, declared Jerusalem the Lord, you keep going backward. So I have stretched out my hand against you and destroyed you. I am weary of relenting I have winnowed them with a winnowing fort in the gates of the land. I have bereaved them. I have destroyed my people. They did not turn from their ways. I have made their widows more in number than the sand of the seas. I have brought against the mothers of young men a destroyer at noonday. I have made anguish and terror fall upon them suddenly. She who bore seven has grown feeble, she has fainted away. Her son went down while it was yet day. She has been shamed and disgraced, and the rest of them I will give to the sword before their enemies, declares the Lord. Woe is me, my mother, that you bore me, a man of strife and contention to the whole land I have not lent, nor have I borrowed, yet all of them curse me. The Lord said, Have I not set you free for their good? Have I not pleaded for you before the enemy in the time of trouble and in the time of distress? Can one break iron, iron from the north, and bronze? Your wealth and your treasures I will give as spoil without price for all your sins throughout all your territory. I will make you serve your enemies in a land that you do not Know for in my anger a fire is kindled that shall burn forever O Lord, you know. Remember me and visit me, and take vengeance for me on my persecutors in your forbearance. Take me not away. Know that for your sake I bear reproach. Your words were found. I ate them, and your words became to me a joy and the delight of my heart, for I am called by your name, O Lord God of hosts. I do not sit in the company of revelers, nor did I rejoice. I sat alone because your hand was upon me, for you had filled me with indignation. Why is my pain un Unceasing, my wound incurable, refusing to be healed, will you be to me like a deceitful brook? Like waters that fail. Therefore, thus says the Lord If you return, I will restore you. And you shall stand before me. If you utter what is precious and not what is worthless, you shall be as my mouth. They shall turn to you, but you shall not turn to them. And I will make you to this people a fortified wall of bronze. They will fight against you, but they shall not prevail over you, for I am with you to save you and deliver you, declares The Lord I will deliver you out of the hand of the wicked and redeem you from the grasp of the ruthless That is Jeremiah 15, and I believe that is a word that we need to hear. Of course, all of God's word is is a word that we need to hear, but this one is very very strong. I mean Jeremiah is strong medicine, right? He is a straight shooter and strong. And We need to hear it. God is absolutely fed up with his people at this point That's that's we're supposed to get that impression, just fed up. He says, even if Moses and Samuel stood before me, yet my heart would not turn toward this people. Send them out of my sight and let me go. Now, this first verse teaches us something very important. Intercessors, great leaders and intercessors. Are necessary within the covenant relationship that God has with His people because we are a sinful people, and He is a holy God, and we need mediation. Moses prayed for the Exodus generation and God spared them. Samuel prayed for the people of God in his day And the Lord raised up King David. We have the best intercessor, the best king, the best high priest, one who is better than Moses and Samuel combined times a million. Jesus, the great high priest, Jesus the King of Kings, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. So John could write in first John chapter two, my little children, I write these things to you You may not sin, but if we sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous one, who is the propitiation not only for our sins, but for the sins of the Lord whole world. It's 1 John 2. There's one God and there's one mediator between God and man, the Lord, the man, Christ Jesus. Jesus. So we have the best mediator, and that's a better hope. So we we are spared the judgment that we deserve because of our But here, God's people are being disciplined by Him in a very severe way. Pestilence, sword, famine, captivity. There's four things that God announces, and then he's got four kinds of destroyers. So there's two sets of four here. The four things God's going to send them away to is to Pestilence to the sword to famine orchid captivity. So some of them are gonna suffer starvation because pestilence has dis destroyed the crops and has destroyed their country Uh and and they get diseased and they get maybe the plague, some version of plague comes upon them. The sword, they're gonna be killed in battle. Famine, they're gonna starve to death because of course the pest Will wipe out the crop and the livestock as well as people, and then to exile, to captivity. This combination. Well, we get to Revelation right away. Hold this thought in your head. When we get to Revelation and the four horsemen of the apocalypse in Revelation chapter 6, we're going to see the same combination. So So this is how God judges. God brings warfare and disease that brings famine and death. I will appoint over them four kinds of destroyers, the sword to kill, the dogs to tear, the birds of the So even their dead bodies will not be buried, because they'll be eaten by the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth. That is That is severe. Why this so severe judgment? Because of what Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah, king of Judah, did in Jerusalem. God's very clear here in verse four. This is why he's doing it. This particular thing. Well what happened? Well first of all Manasseh was the son of Hezekiah so he knew better. Hezekiah was a righteous king. Yes Hezekiah was a little full of himself. And a little cocky toward the end of his life, but he was a righteous king who got rid of all the idols, who got rid of all the high places, who commanded the worship of the Lord in purity and in faithfulness, at the temple and Hezekiah raised up Manasseh, and Manasseh saw this, and yet when he became king He not only rebuilt high places, recommitted idolatry, but he even went so far As to burn his sons in the fires of Molech, in the valley of Gehenna. And so he practiced, he himself personally practiced child sacrifice, fortune telling, idolatry. And the people did not rise up against him. There were other kings who had conspiracies against them, where the the temple guard or the palace guard or the rulers in Jerusalem said, We know this guy's wrong He's totally foolish, he's leading us astray, let's throw him out. That did not happen. So it's all the leaders of Jerusalem and Judah who really went along with Manasseh in what he was doing. And so God says, look, you've rejected me. You've gone backwards. You keep going backwards. I bring you good kings like Hezekiah. Later he's He's going to bring another good king, Josiah. But the people, as soon as they're not being restrained by a good king, the people break loose and go backward. So God says, I'm going to winnow you, I'm going to destroy you. Your widows are going to be more in number than the sand of the sea. Well this is a hard, hard word. So how does Jeremiah respond to it? Jeremiah is basically. Well, T is just completely distraught. Woe is me, he says. Woe is me, my mother, that you bore me a man of strife and contention to the whole land. Jeremiah is saying, I haven't done anything wrong But everybody hates me because I speak the truth And God reminds them that, you know, He sent Jeremiah to the people for their own good. But Jeremiah wonders. He says they all hate me. They're all against me. I've got to bring these hard words to these people, and they just Just can't stand me. And so he cries out to the Lord passionately, O Lord, you know. I found your words, I ate them, I delighted in them, they were the delight of my heart. I call upon your name. I don't sit with the revelers, I don't rejoice in evildoing. I sit alone oftentimes because your hand is And here I am, completely alone, outnumbered, hated, despised, rejected, imprisoned, persecuted And the Lord answers him, Be faithful. Be faithful to what I've given you to do. And you'll stand before me, you'll be my mouth, I'll make you like a fortified wall of bronze, they'll not prevail over you, for I'm with you to save you. This is what we need to hear. Verses 19 and 20 is what we need to hear because we know we live in a culture, we live in a world that hates God, hates his ways. And the more clear we are about the truth, the more God's people will reject us. Yes, I said God's people will reject us because they don't want to hear it. And the world will hate us because they really don't want to hear it. And we need to be able to stand up and say, This is the truth. The Word of God, I take it, I eat it, I delight in it, I treasure it, I speak it, I take it, I eat it, I delight in it, I treasure it, I Speak it, I take it, I eat it, I delight in it, I treasure it, I speak Speak it. Faithful, faithful, faithful. Lord made us faithful. And we need to trust him. And he's with us to save us and deliver us. Come on What may Now this is not a call to be combative, angry, hyper politically opinionated, because that's not a thus says the Lord. This is I think Just be real frank here, okay? A lot of Christians mistake being loyal to the Republican Party or being loyal to a particular presidential candidate as being faithful to the word of God. And when the world despises them for that, they think, oh, we're being persecuted for the Word of God. Mm-mm. Don't don't jump on that bandwagon. But if you do speak the truth from the Word of God about things like abortion, about things like LGBTQ And that whole the violation of the image of God in humanity by by murdering unborn children, by By mutilating adolescents, by brainwashing young children Come what may, they're gonna have to hate us for it. Now, God says they shall turn to you, but you shall not turn to them. But he's actually talking about the people of God. He's not talking about the world. He's talking about his own people. If we'll speak the truth, those who belong to God, those who are God's own, will hear it and will turn and will trust. And God will will be with us to save us and deliver us and you need to stand for that truth. But the most important truth, more important than abortion or other stuff, we need to stand for the truth about who Jesus is, because that's what the world really doesn't want to hear. That Jesus is the Savior. He's the only salvation. That we are sinners, that we deserve the wrath of God, all of us including them. Me, you, all of us, we deserve the wrath of God for our sin. Jesus died to take it on upon himself. He rose again to conquer death. He's the only Savior because He's the only one who's done that for us We need to flee to him for salvation. That is a word that the world does not want to hear. That is the first word they should hear from us. And we should never apologize for that. We should be loving and kind and gentle and patient As we speak it, but we should never apologize for it, because it is the very truth of God. So God says He will deliver us. We need to trust Him for that. And we need to be his mouth in the world. Speak the truth in love with faithfulness. Let's pray. Father, we need to be faithful. You call us to be faithful Help us to be faithful to your word, to your truth, to your gospel, to your church, to our calling in the world as salt and light, as a ambassadors for Christ to tell the world, be reconciled to God through Jesus Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. That is Jeremiah 15. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 16. I hope you can join me for that. And as always, I really do hope that you have a blessed day in the Lord as you faithfully Take in his word and speak it forth to others.