Good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Vel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our eight hundred and ninety-fourth day together in God's Word. I have a nice fresh cup of coffee in my banner of truth mug. Hmm. It's good coffee today. And we're in Jeremiah chapter 20. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you, for you are faithful and unfailing. We thank you that your word never fails, even when your people fail to hear or to heed your word Speak to us today through Jeremiah 20. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, last time in Jeremiah, he was speaking some hard words in the valley of Hinnem. And today we see that not everybody appreciates the words that Jeremiah had to say, even though he was a faithful prophet. Just because you're faithful to God doesn't mean people are going to stand up and applaud you and say, Yay, go, you faithful man of God. That doesn't always happen. Here's Jeremiah twenty. Now Pasher, the priest, the son of Immer, who was chief officer in the house of the Lord, heard Jeremiah prophesying these things. Then Pasher beat Jeremiah the prophet and put him in the stocks that were in the upper Benjamin gate of the house of the Lord. The next day, when Pasher released Jeremiah from the stocks, Jeremiah said to him, The Lord does not call your name Pasher, but terror on every side. For thus says the Lord, Behold, I will make you a terror to yourself and to all your friends. They shall fall by the sword of their enemies while you look on. And I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon. He shall carry them captive to Babylon, and shall strike them down with the sword. Moreover, I will give all the wealth of the city, all its gains, all its prized belongings, and all the treasures of the kings of Judah into the hand of their enemies. who shall plunder them and seize them and carry them to Babylon. And you, Pasher And all who dwell in your house shall go into captivity. To Babylon you shall go, and there you shall die, and there you shall be buried, you and all your friends, to whom you have prophesied falsely. O Lord, you have deceived me, and I was deceived. You are stronger than I, and you have prevailed I have become a laughing stock all the day. Every one mocks me. For whenever I speak I cry out, I shout, Violence and destruction for the word of the Lord has become for me a reproach and derision all day long. If I say I will not mention him, or speak any more in his name, there is in my heart, as it were, a burning fire shut up in my bones and I am weary with holding it in, and I cannot for I hear many whispering Terror is on every side. Denounce him, let us denounce him, say all my close friends, watching for my foe Perhaps he will be deceived. We can overcome him and take our revenge on him. But the Lord is with me. As a dread warrior. Therefore, my persecutors will stumble. They will not overcome They will be greatly shamed, for they will not succeed. Their eternal dishonor will never be forgotten. who tests the righteous, who sees the heart and the mind. Let me see your vengeance upon them, for to you have I committed my Sing to the Lord. Praise the Lord, for he has delivered the life of the needy from the hand of the evildoers. Cursed be the day on which I was born. The day when my mother bore me, let it not be blessed. Cursed is the man who brought the news to my father, a son is born to you, making him very glad Let that man be like the cities that the Lord overthrew without pity. Let him hear a cry in the morning and an alarm at noon, because he did not kill me in the womb, so that my mother would not would have been my grave And her womb forever great, why did I come out of the womb to see toil and sorrow and spend my days in shame? Boy, Jeremiah's all over the place in this chapter, isn't he? I love that we get such a picture of Jeremiah the man of God. He's a man. The best of matter, but men at best. We are up one minute, down the next, praising the Lord, confident in him, and then down in the dumps of dejection. You know, it's a common experience among pastors. Monday morning depression. One pastor wrote about this. And he said that some forty-two times in his couple of decades-long pastorate at a particular church, forty-two times he had drafted letters of resignation on Monday morning Thankfully, he either never sent them, or if he did send them, they were not received as being a serious resignation, which is This is an invitation to a conversation because you can preach your heart out, you can pour your heart out before the people of God, and oftentimes I'm very, very thankful that the forest hill the response is generally very positive and very strong. wrong. But not always. Some people just don't get it. They don't want to hear it. They they're bored. They're distracted. They think it's irrelevant. They think it's harsh. They think it's narrow-minded, they think it's old-fashioned, they don't care. They think you're talking about something that is just A myth, and that's hard. That's hard because it's the Word of God, and you have a passion for God and His glory, and you want to see people come to know Him. But it can be very difficult when, especially when people you love, people who are close to your heart. You plead, you share, you preach, you teach, you Pray, you counsel, you encourage, you exhort, and there's nothing. There's no response. It's very hard. Here is Pasher the priest, the son of Immer. He was probably someone known to Jeremiah, probably a friend of his, because Jeremiah was a priest. Remember? Jeremiah, son of Hel of the priests of Anathoth. Here's a fellow priest. Priesthood wasn't a very large percentage of the population in Israel. And here he he hears these this word from Jeremiah, this powerful word that God had put in Jeremiah's heart as a burden that God had given to Jeremiah to speak with Satan. Clarity and such confidence in the valley of the Son of Hinnem. And he takes Jeremiah, beats him, and puts him in the stocks. And then he releases him. And Jeremiah's got a word for him, a word from the Lord. The Lord does not call your name Pasher, but terror on every side. Here he's confident. You know what's going to happen? The Lord's going to give this whole city into the hands of the king of Babylon. Now, do you think Jeremiah's happy about that? Here's the thing. He was confident. He was bold. He trusted the Lord. He spoke the word of God happily. But do you think he was, I mean, he spoke the word of God faithfully, I should say, but do you think he was happy about it? You think he wanted to see his friends, his neighbors, his family members, his city taken off into the hands of the king of Babylon? Do you think he wanted to see the whole city turned into a burial place? You think he was just sitting back and saying, Oh, you just wait, you're just coming. No, he was it was very clearly evident to him that he did not want This to come about. He was hoping, he was hoping that the people would wake up and they would repent because of his words, and that perhaps the Lord would relent. on the things that he had said. Remember, Jonah had said, it was very well known by this time, because that had happened earlier in history, but Jonah had said to Nineveh, Yet forty days Nineveh will be overthrown. And the people repented, and the Lord relented. Jeremiah was hoping for a more Jonah-like ministry, but that's not what he gets. And so he gets this despair where he says to the Lord, I'm just a man. Look, here's here's the truth. I'm just a man. You've overcome me. This this idea of you've deceived me and I was deceived, you were stronger than I. And you've prevailed. This is basically the Lord put a burden on Jeremiah's heart to speak these words, and he had to do it. The Lord said, do it, and Jeremiah had to do it. I I I wonder when going back to the beginning of Jeremiah, he was like, I set you apart from your mother's womb. Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. I've appointed you to be a prophet to the nations. I wonder how Jeremiah felt. He probably was pretty Pretty grateful, pretty proud. It's a pretty honorable thing. You're already a priest and now you're being called to be a prophet. That's pretty awesome. You probably thought, wow, I'm so blessed. And hasn't turned out to be a fun ride, it hasn't turned out to be exactly what he thought it was gonna be He says, whenever I speak, I cry out, I shout, violence and destruction. Why? Because that's the word the Lord gave him. The Lord did not give him a word to say Oh, the Lord bless you. Oh, the Lord will will prosper you. Oh, the Lord has a wonderful plan for your life. God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. your life. The Lord didn't give him that message. The Lord gave him a message of violence and destruction. And so the word of the Lord became for Jeremiah a reproach and derision all day long. All it gets in is hatred. So he says, well, I'm just not going to do it anymore. I'll just keep my mouth shut. He can tell me to prophesy, I'm just going to sit here. Not do it. He says, when I do that, it's like there's a fire. It's a fire in my heart, in my bones. And I can't hold it in. It's just like painful to hold it in. And everybody around me is saying, oh, denounce him, denounce him. Maybe we can overcome him and take our revenge on him. And yet he has to speak because he's got this fire in his bones. He knows that the Lord is mighty. He knows. He knows beyond a shadow of a doubt this is the word of the Lord. And the Lord will bring it to pass. But when he speaks it, it makes him unpopular, but when he doesn't speak it, it's agonizing to him. So he gets this confidence, and he really hits the pinnacle of his confidence in verses 11 to 13. The Lord is with me as a dread warrior, so my persecutors will stumble. They are not going to overcome me. They're going to be greatly ashamed. They're going to have eternal dishonor that will never be forgotten. The Lord of hosts is the one who tests the righteous, who sees the heart and the mind, and he wants to see the Lord's vengeance upon them. He's committed his cause to the Lord, and he's singing to the Lord, and he's praising the Lord. But you know what? At the end of the day, Jeremiah still comes back to this. He's living with an impossible calling. An impossible time. He is the messenger of destruction and judgment to a culture that does not want to hear it, that will not repent, that will not be spared. And so in the end of this chapter at least, where he is at the end of this passage, he says it's better if I hadn't been born. That's my sort of summary. These last few verses. It's better if I hadn't been born. Because I spend my days in shame. The more faithful I am to God, the more hated I am by people. And that's a hard place to be. It's a hard place to be. I hope that wherever the Lord has you That you're plugged into a church that you're actively serving, and that you're praying for your pastor. You're praying for whoever it is who's burdened to bring the Word of God to you. Week by week. If you go to Forest Hill, I hope that you're praying for me. Because there are times when I get discouraged. There are times where I look at the text that I have for Sunday and I think, this is gonna To be hard. It's hard to tell people that they are idolaters and they need to repent of their idolatry. It's hard to tell people that God is angry with the wicked, which we had Just this past Sunday. The Lord the Lord's His soul hates the wicked. He's gonna pour burning coals on their head. That's a hard word. But it's the word of God And it's the word that we need to speak. Now there's good news, of course. And we'll get there in Jeremiah. The new covenant is coming in chapter 31, so we're still about ten chapters away, but we're going to get there. Chapter twenty-nine is going to have some more positive things. There are positive things coming. But you see, the Lord tells us the truth. It's not a salesman, and preachers aren't salesmen. We're not pitchmen pitching a product. We're ambassadors representing a king. And that's a high and holy calling. There's no greater privilege. There is no greater privilege than to be an ambassador for the King of Heaven. There's also no heavier burden It's impossible to bear without the help of the Holy Spirit. And I am thankful for the help of the Holy Spirit. I am thankful for the prayers of God's people. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for loving us with a love that is strong and faithful. You are unfailing. You always accomplish your purposes. Be glorified through Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Be glorified through faithful men who preach your word Use your word powerfully to bring repentance to your people and life to the dead. But even if we aren't seeing evident and abundant fruit, In season, out of season, may we preach the word faithfully, clearly, boldly, to glorify you and thank you for the privilege. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well that is Jeremiah twenty. Tomorrow we're going to jump over to the Psalms and pick up with another Psalm of Ascents. Psalm 132 is on tap for tomorrow. I hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessing. Last day in the Lord