Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Thank you for joining me as we're getting back into the book of Jeremiah today. On day 923, we had a gloriously beautiful, powerful chapter yesterday today. A much sad and sombering tone, uh somber tone today as we go into the fall of Jerusalem in Jeremiah 39. Let's pray. Heavenly Father Thank you for all of your word. We need all of it. Those chapters like yesterday when our hearts were singing. To the glory of your name, for the gratitude we have for our redemption and the greatness of the triumph of the Lamb, to chapters like today, where we have to deal with the sin of your people. and the consequences. We need to hear every part of your word. So prepare us to listen to Jeremiah 39 and write it in our hearts we pray in Jesus' name. Amen Jeremiah thirty nine in the ninth year of Zedekiah King of Judah. In the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his army came against Jerusalem and besieged it. In the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, on the ninth day of the month, a breach was made in the city Then all the officials of the king of Babylon came and sat in the middle gate. Nurgul Sar Ezur of Samgar. Nebu Sar Sikim of Raps of the Rapseres, Nurgul Sar Ezur, the Rabmag, with all the rest of the officers of the king of Babylon. When Zedekiah, king of Judah, and all the soldiers saw them, they fled, going out of the city at night by way of the king's garden, through the gate, between the walls. And they went toward the Arabah. But the army of the Chaldeans pursued them, and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho And when they had taken him, they brought him up to Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, at Ribla, in the land of Hamath, and he passed sentence on him The king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah at Riblah before his eyes, and the king of Babylon slaughtered all the nobles of Judah. He put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him in chains, to take him to Babylon. The Chaldeans burned the king's house, and the house of the people and broke down the walls of Jerusalem. Then Nebu Zaradon, the captain of the guard, carried into exile to Babylon the rest of the people who were left in the city, those who had deserted to him and the people who remained Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, left in the land of Judah some of the poor people who owned nothing, and gave them vineyards and fields at the same time. Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, gave command concerning Jeremiah through Nebuzeradon, the captain of the guard, saying, Take him! Look after him well, and do him no harm, but deal with him as he tells you. So Nebuchardened the captain of the guard, Nebuchadnezzar The Rabseris, Nurgalsar Ezir the Rabmag, and the chief officers of the king of Babylon, sent and took Jeremiah from the court of the guard. They entrusted him to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikim, the son of Shaphan, that he should take him home. So he lived among the people. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah while he was shut up in the court of the guard. Go and say to Ebed Melech, the Ethiopian Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will fulfill my words against this city for harm and not for good and they shall be accomplished before you on that day. But I will deliver you on that day, declares the Lord, and you shall not be given into the hand of the men of whom you are afraid, for I will surely save you And you shall not fall by the sword, but you shall have your life as a prize of war, because you have put your trust in me, declares the Lord. That is Jeremiah 39, which ends with a great promise of the faithfulness of God to the Ethiopian eunuch who had rescued Jeremiah out of the cistern earlier. But we have this account of the siege. And we're not giving a lot of details here. We do have the Book of Lamentations, which Jeremiah wrote as a lament over the devastated city. But think about the length of this. It's the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah in the tenth month. So it's almost at the end of the ninth year, when Nebuchadnezzar and the army of Babylon come to Jerusalem and besiege it. And then it's the eleventh year in the fourth month. So it's it's a year and a half later when a breach is made in the city. Over a year, year and a half, that the city is sitting under siege. So from about November, December of 589. BC until about 587, June or July of 587. So about a year and a half that the city is under siege. That is a long time. And being under siege by the largest army in the world is no joke. You can't go in or out. Food is rationed, food is limited. Now they would have they would have stored up food, they would have had source of water, but it's hard. It's desperate times. Until finally the army is able to make a breach in the city. The city doesn't surrender. They're not quite starved out But the army is able to make a breach. And then the officials of the king of Babylon come in and Zedekiah He flees. He's trying to get out. He's trying to get out. He's trying to get away. He's probably trying to go to Egypt or perhaps across the Jordan to some place that's beyond the reach of the Babylonian Empire at this point. But he doesn't get very far. He's overtaken in the plains of Jericho. It's about 14 miles away from Jerusalem. And then he's taken to see Nebuchadnezzar in in Ribla in Syria, which is about 65 miles north of Damascus. So it's a pretty long walk that he has to go on with his sons and with the nobles. And when he gets there, he was told by Jeremiah the prophet, you will see Nebuchadnezzar face to face. And sure enough, here at Riblah, he sees Nebuchadnezzar face to face. But it is not an appointment that Zedekiah wanted to keep. He was a coward, he would not listen to the word of the Lord, he would not withstand the nobles, he would not do the right thing, the thing that God had told him to do, which was to surrender. And so as punishment, his sons are slaughtered before him, all the nobles of Jirah are slaughtered before him, and then his eyes are put out. So the last thing he saw was the execution of his sons and of his closest advisors. And then they burned the king's house. And they break down the walls. And they take into exile anybody who's has any property, any status, any standing whatsoever. And the people they leave are the poor people who owned nothing. The poorest poor people were left behind, and they were given vineyards and fields. So this is this is what God's been warning his people about, really for hundreds of years, and gave them time after time to repent, and there was no repentance, and there was no repentance, and there were smaller defeats and there were other humiliations and there were warnings, but the people never repented God's patience is great. God is long suffering with the sin and the rebellion of his people, but when he tells us that there's consequences, When he tells us that we will reap what we sow, we need to heed his word. We need to repent of idolatry and worldliness. Now, Jeremiah is taken care of. through Nebuchadnezzar. Why would Nebuchadnezzar take care of Jeremiah? Because He had learned about Jeremiah from those who had surrendered to him, that Jeremiah was the prophet who was preaching the victory of Babylon and was encouraging Jerusalem to surrender. So it makes sense that Nebuchadnezzar would take care of him. In the end, Jeremiah was faithful to do what God had called him to do. and he suffers a much better fate than those noble officials who are killed, the ones who opposed him, or the king who wouldn't listen to his word, and who has his eyes gouged out. But even better Abed Melech, the Ethiopian, who was told that he will be saved because he did not oppose Jeremiah, but he had actually rescued Jeremiah. Jeremiah. So here's the call for us. The call for us is to pay no attention to what is popular in the world. From either side, left or right, high culture, low culture, whatever. Pay no attention to what the world celebrates. to what the world prizes, hold fast to the Word of God, and to the kingdom of God, and to the promises of God. Share them openly. And know that no matter what happens, no matter what happens, God is able to take care of his own He was able to protect Jeremiah. He was able to protect Ebed Melech the Ethiopian. And consequences came for those who despised the Word of God. God is faithful. We can trust Him no matter what the culture says, no matter what our own doubts and uncertainties and fears. Remember, we've been through this book. There were times when Jeremiah cried, he wept He he a he doubted God. He asked hard questions, but in the end he was faithful. May the Lord make us faithful. Let's pray. Father, your word is true. It is unshakably, unerringly true. It is reliable. It is authoritative. It is the word from you for us to follow. to trust and obey. May we do so. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 39. Tomorrow we are going to go on to Jeremiah forty and find out what happens to Jeremiah after the downfall of Jerusalem. I hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.