Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Home Presbyterian Church. on our nine hundred and thirty second day together in God's word. Let me fix my camera real quick. A little bit off. Okay, we're in Jeremiah forty five. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and for your kindness, your faithfulness. You are so good. Lord, speak to us through your word today. We need to hear from you. We come together, we look in your word because you're the one who has the truth. we need it. So we pray that you would write your truth on our hearts from the from Jeremiah 45 today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah 45. The word that Jeremiah the prophet spoke to Barak, the son of Nariah, when he wrote these words in a book, at the dictation of Jeremiah. In the fourth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah. Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, to you, O Barak, you said, Woe is me For the Lord has added sorrow to my pain. I am weary with my groaning, and I find no rest. Thus shall you say to him, Thus says the Lord Behold, what I have built I am breaking down, and what I have planted I am plucking up. That is the whole land. And do you seek great things for yourself? Seek them not, for behold, I am bringing disaster upon all flesh, declares the Lord. But I will give you your life. As a prize of war in all places to which you may go Barak, the son of Nerea. He was Jeremiah's scribe. He was the one who wrote down. Jeremiah's messages and often read them aloud or passed them along to people. Jeremiah was the one who received the word from the Lord, but Barak was the one who inscribed it So we have the book of Jeremiah today written down as scripture because of Barak, the son of Nereah. Now, Barak was distressed. He was deeply distraught because the persecution that Jeremiah suffered Was filling over on the Barak. And remember a couple days ago when we were in Jeremiah 44, the people who refused to listen to Jeremiah. in Egypt and to stop offering their offerings to the Queen of Heaven. These people who refused to listen to Jeremiah, they said, you know what? This isn't really coming from you. This is coming from Barak That's what Johannan had said earlier about why they were going to go to Egypt and they weren't going to listen to Jeremiah. They said it was Barak. It was Barak who did it. So Barrick is being blamed, blaming the messenger, right? Don't shoot the messenger. That's Barak. But Berwick is distressed because his home, his home country, his family, his land. All ransacked, ravaged by the Babylonians, he was forcibly taken to Egypt along with Jeremiah, though he didn't want to go. He's being bad-mouthed by the Jewish community as being the source of all of these problems. And so Barak is saying, verse 3, Woe is me! For the Lord has added sorrow to my pain, I am weary with my groaning, and I find no rest. Now the Lord answers Barak by By telling him that basically the Lord Himself is dealing with difficult things, right? Verse 4, thus you shall say to him Thus says the Lord, behold, what I have built, I am breaking down, and what I have planted I am plucking up. That is the whole land. So Barak had a small piece of land, and Barak had a house, and Barak had a family, Barak had a small piece. But the Lord said, I have built all of this. I've planted all of this. And now because of the sin of my people whose hearts are hard and who refuse to listen to my word, because of their sin, I have to break it all down. I have to tear it all up. So Barak is not the only one who's having to deal with difficult things. And then the Lord challenges Barak and says, And do you seek great things for yourself? In the middle of this disastrous time, do you seek great things for yourself? Seek them not, the Lord says, for behold, I'm bringing disaster upon all flesh. We can often feel sorry for ourselves, particularly living in a declining culture, where the culture and even the church is starting to suffer the effects of the judgment of God. There is captivity, there is distress, there is bondage, and we can be in great distress over it. But God says that he loves his people. He loves his people, as I'm going to be preaching tomorrow from Psalm 17, we're the apple of his eye. And when he has to discipline, he doesn't afflict from the heart, because Lamentations 3 says, he doesn't afflict from the heart, that is willingly. But he disciplines us for our own good, but it's but it's not it's not pleasant. The Lord takes no delight in it And even when it comes to wicked people, the Lord says he takes no delight in the death of the wicked, but rather that he should turn from his sin and live. So the Lord doesn't delight in these things. So if we feel distressed, we need to realize that that the Lord is watching his creation that he pronounced to be very good. People he made in his image. just destroy and ravage. Now is not the time for us to be seeking good for ourselves. One of the problems of the American political system is that it conditions us to be self-seeking. We've got to get the power away from them. We've got to make things right because they keep messing it up. We've got to protect our own, you know, and so we we can we can be sucked into this mindset of seeking great things for ourselves, but don't. The Lord says to us, seek them not, as he said to Barak, I'm bringing disaster upon all flesh. We need to repent, we need to pray, we need to intercede, we need to weep. But we shouldn't expect that somehow with the declining culture and the unfolding of the wrath of God, and even the judgment and discipline of God coming upon his people for their worldliness that somehow we are going to be enriched and are going to be wonderfully well off. No But the Lord is gracious, the Lord is merciful, and he says to Barak, I will give you your life as a prize of war in all places to which you may go. So Barak is told, God's going to watch over him. They're not going to be able to kill him. God will protect him. The Lord's given us something much better. He said, forget about trying to get great things in this world. Forget about seeking great things for yourself in this world and know, trust, that I have great things for you in eternity. What did Jesus say to his disciples on the night when he was betrayed, when he gave a wonderful parting instruction that he gave in John 14-16? Well, one thing he said was In my father's house there are many mansions. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again to take you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also But he also said in the same instruction on that last night before he was betrayed by Judas in the garden, he said to them, If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own, but as it is, I've chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. So he told us both things: the world's going to hate you, and I've prepared a place for you. The world's going to persecute you. The Apostle Paul would later write: everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. The world's going to persecute you, but I will bless you, I will keep you. I will bring you all the way home. And so that's why we need to follow what Jesus said earlier in his ministry when he said, Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, not treasures on earth. If you lay it for yourself treasures on earth, the moth and rust destroy, and the thieves break in and steal, but if you lay up for yourself treasures in heaven, there neither moth nor rust destroys, and thieves don't break in and steal, for wherever your treasure is there your heart will be also. If we treasure the things of this world, our heart will belong to the world, and we will be ever more distressed when the things of this world don't go our way. We'll be desperate And I see a lot of Christians who are seemed desperate. They need to make the things of this world go their way. Why are they so desperate? Because they've put their treasure in this world, and therefore their heart is in this world. Jesus is preparing a place for us. When this is over, we're going to be with him. He says to put our treasure in heaven. Preach the gospel. Love your neighbor. Be faithful to your king. Don't seek great things for yourself, but store up treasures in heaven. Let's learn the lesson from Barak and let's live faithfully. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for this word here in Jeremiah 45. Short chapter, powerful chapter. Speaks directly to us and where we live today by your Holy Spirit. May we seek the things that are above, where Christ is seated at your right hand. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, that is Jeremiah 45. Thanks for joining me for it. Tomorrow we're going to go right on to Jeremiah 46. Have a blessed day in the Lord.