Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and on our nine hundred and twenty-first day together in the Word of God, we come to Jeremiah 38. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the faithfulness that you have shown us as we've walked with you through your word day by day. Thank you for taking time with us each day to to bless us, to to speak to us, to encourage us, to correct us. Father, your patient work in our lives, your persevering love. Your goodness to us is wonderful, and it's our hope and our strength. Please write Jeremiah 38 on our hearts. Help us to see your will for us. Help us to draw closer to Christ, our Savior. Through this time we spend in your word, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah 38. Now, Shephatia the son of Matan, Gedaliah the son of Pasher, Jugal the son of Shelemiah, and Pasher the son of Malkaiah, heard the words that Jeremiah was saying to all the people. Thus says the Lord He who stays in the city will die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, but he who goes out to the Chaldeans shall live He shall have his life as a prize of war and live. Thus says the Lord, this city shall surely be given into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon and be taken. Then the officials said to the king, Let this man be put to death, for he is weakening the hands of the soldiers who are left in this city, and the hands of all the people by speaking such words to them, for this man is not seeking the welfare of this people, but their harm. King Zedekiah said, Behold, he is in your hands, for the king can do nothing against you. So they took Jeremiah and cast him into the cistern of Malkaih. the king's son, which was in the court of the guard, letting Jeremiah down by ropes, and there was no water in the cistern, but only mud and Jeremiah sank in the mud. When Ebed Melech, the Ethiopian A eunuch, who was in the king's house, heard that they had put Jeremiah into the cistern, the king was sitting in the Benjamin gate Evedmelech went from the king's house and said to the king, My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they did to Jeremiah the prophet by casting him into the cistern and he will die there for hunger, for there is no bread left in the city. Then the king commanded Ebedmelech, the Ethiopian. Take thirty men with you from here, and lift Jeremiah the prophet out of the cistern before he dies. So Ebed Melech took the men with him and went to the house of the king, to a wardrobe in the storehouse, and took from there old rags and worn out clothes, which he let down to Jeremiah in the cistern by the ropes Then Ebed Melech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, Put the rags and the clothes between your armpits and the ropes. Jeremiah did so. Then they drew Jeremiah up with ropes, and lifted him out of the cistern. And Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard. King Zedekiah sent for Jeremiah the prophet and received him at the third entrance of the temple of the Lord. The king said to Jeremiah, I will ask you a question. Hide nothing from me. Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, If I tell you, will you not surely put me to death? And if I give you counsel, you will not listen to me. Then King Zedekiah swore secretly to Jeremiah, as the Lord lives, who made our souls. I will not put you to death or deliver you into the hands of these men who seek your life. Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, Thus says the Lord, the God of hosts, the God of Israel, if you surrender to the officials of the King of Babylon, then your life will be spared, and the city will not be burned with fire, and you and your house shall live But if you do not surrender to the officials of the king of Babylon, then this city shall be given into the hand of the Chaldeans, and they shall burn it with fire, and you shall not escape from their hand King Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, I am afraid of the Judeans who have deserted to the Chaldeans. Lest I be handed over to them, and they deal cruelly with me. Jeremiah said, You will not be given to them. Obey now the voice of the Lord in what I say to you, and it shall be well with you, and your life shall be spared. But if you refuse to surrender, this is the vision which the Lord has shown me. Behold. All the women left in the house of the king of Judah were being led out to the officials of the king of Babylon, and were saying, Your trusted friends have deceived you and prevailed against you. Now that your feet are sunk in the mud, they turn away from you. All your wives and your sons shall be led out to the Chaldeans, and you yourself shall not escape from their hand but shall be seized by the king of Babylon, and this city shall be burned with fire. Then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, Let no one know of these words, and you shall not die If the officials hear that I have spoken with you and come to you and say to you, Tell us what you said to the king, and what the king said to you, hide nothing from us, and we will not put you to death. Then you shall say to them, I made a humble plea to the king that he would not send me back to the house of Jonathan to die there. Then all the officials came to Jeremiah and asked him, and he answered them as the king had instructed him, so they stopped speaking with him. For the conversation had not been overheard, and Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard until the day that Jerusalem was taken. Jeremiah 38 is a chapter that is very full of significant symbolism and insights into human nature and political realities. The significant symbolism, Jeremiah is taken and he is lowered down into a cistern. This is a uh a place that holds water. It's the cistern of Malkaijah the king's son. Now, very oftentimes, old cisterns would be converted into prison pits. One of the ways that prisoners were imprisoned and to ensure that they would not escape is that they were put into a pit. That they were lowered down into and raised out of. There were no stairs to climb, there was no ladder There were no windows that they could see out of or bars that they could cut their way through. It was just solid rock hewn out of the earth. And old cisterns were a common place for these things to be made into. prisons. In the house of Caiaphas, the high priest, there are underground there's an underground cistern that had been converted into a prison And that's where Jesus was held. Now, Jesus was probably lowered down into that cistern in a nicer way than Jeremiah just being lowered down with ropes. But we don't know for sure. We just know that archaeologists found these cisterns down there that had been prison cells. And but again, it's now they have steps carved into them or steps put into them, so you can get down there quite easily. But Jesus was put into a cistern and kept there between the time of his arrest and the time when they were able to gather the Sanhedrin to have him into trial and then probably put back in there until it was a suitable hour to take him to Pontius Pilate. So there's that symbolism there. The other symbolism that's interesting in this chapter is Ebed Melech the Ethiopian, a eunuch. is the righteous one who does what the leaderships the leadership in Judah would not do, and that is he goes to rescue Jeremiah. And this should remind us of Another Ethiopian eunuch that we find in the Book of Acts, who did what none of the officials in Judah would do. And that is, he looked into and he he wanted to know more about who Jesus was. And when he learned the truth about Jesus He professed faith in him and was baptized and became a disciple of Jesus. So we have a more righteous Ethiopian eunuch and we have an unjust imprisonment in a sister. We also have something else We have a king who doesn't want to harm Jeremiah. And yet, um the the officials The men of Judah who are leading things in the city. They're named here at the beginning, Shephatiah the son of Matan, Gedaliah the son of Pasher, Jukal the son of Shelemiah, and Pasher. the son of Melkaiah. These guys, these oligarchs we could call them, the upper echelon of power within Jerusalem, they want to put Jeremiah to death. They don't like the things that he's saying. Now Jeremiah is just speaking the truth. He's actually trying to save lives in Jerusalem by speaking the truth. The truth nobody wants to hear But it's a truth that is absolutely the truth that God has given him, and that is the only way to be saved is to desert the city, leave the city, surrender the city, go out of the city, go to the Chaldeans. Well, these men want to have Jeremiah killed. And the king doesn't, but the king's hands are tied, he cannot act against the will of the leaders of the city. That is another thing that is pregnant with symbolic meaning because Jesus, Pontius Pilate, who was the rightful governing authority in Jerusalem, did not want to put Jesus to death. He wanted to set him free. But he could not. His hands were tied. He literally washed his hands of the whole situation. And that's basically what uh King Zedekiah says. He says, Behold, he is in your hands, for the king can do nothing against you, there in verse 5. And so He gives up on his responsibility to do to uphold justice, just as Pontius Pilate gave up on his responsibility to uphold justice. Now, here God is more merciful to Jeremiah than he is to his own son, in that he rescues Jeremiah out of the cistern and restores him to life. And of course Jesus is condemned to death for us and for our salvation. So we see some elements here foreshadowing the death of Jesus and the early days of the church. We also see some some political realities, and that is Zedekiah is the king, but that doesn't mean that he's the real power in Jerusalem just as Pontius Pilate was the Roman governor and he had a lot of authority, but he couldn't just do whatever he wanted to do, because there were political realities of people that he had to keep satisfied, or there would be too much unrest and he wouldn't be able to handle it within within the city. Well, how are we supposed to respond to Jeremiah 38, besides seeing more about Jesus and and you know the connection with the righteous Ethiopian eunuch? What are we supposed to do? Well We should be more like the righteous Ethiopian eunuch, shouldn't we? Willing to believe, willing to do what is right, willing to respond positively to the Word of God, even to stick our neck out. The king wasn't willing to stick his neck out But the Ethiopian eunuch, he is willing. And so he he gets thirty men and they lift Jeremiah out and they restore him to the court of the guard, he puts his his his reputation, perhaps even his life on the line, to side with Jeremiah publicly, something that the king himself wasn't willing to do prior. And then after Jeremiah is restored, King Zedekiah goes to see Jeremiah. And here we can see that our call is to speak the truth. without respect of persons. See, Jeremiah tells Zedekiah the truth. He says, If I tell you the truth, you're going to put me to death. And if I give you counsel, you're not going to listen to me. He's not a fool. Jeremiah's not a fool. But when Zedekiah says, I promise I'm not going to put you to death, Jeremiah tells him the truth. He tells them the truth. You need to surrender. Cor Zenechia is not going to keep the word. He's not going to obey Jeremiah's counsel. There's multiple times in this book where the king asks Jeremiah either to pray for him or for counsel. Uh even after the conquering of Jerusalem, we'll see that Jeremiah's asked for advice and counsel and they they don't follow it. We need to follow the Word of God. We need to be willing to hear what the Word of God says, even if it's totally unpopular, even if it's not what we want to hear, even if it goes against our our own natural selfish desires. We need to hear the Word of God and we need to heed, obey the Word of God. Jeremiah says to King Zedekiah in verse 20, obey now the voice of the Lord in what I say to you. And then he warns him, but if you refuse to surrender, this is the vision. That's a call to us. Obey now the word of God. And do not refuse to obey God. Do not refuse the word of God. That's the call to us. Be bold, like the Ethiopian eunuch And don't be like King Zedekiah and a respecter of persons and afraid of peer pressure or political realities so that we shrink back from the Word of God. We need to hear it. We need to heed it, we need to do it, we need to speak it. We need to speak it clearly without respect of persons. And ultimately we need to see Jesus at work in all of it. Because the judgment that's coming on Jerusalem here is not even going to be as bad as what they really deserve. Jesus will come later and he will take the judgment that all of his people deserve upon himself We crushed in our place. And we need to believe in him. We need to believe in him, even though the world rejects him. We need to proclaim him to all who will listen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for Jesus, our Savior, who is the fulfillment of all Scripture. Thank you that He went to the cross for us, taking our place, dying our death that we deserve. being put into the pit of prison and being taken out not to be safely restored, but to be put on a cross. Where he willingly laid down his life for us. Help us to be more like this Ethiopian eunuch here, always wanting to side with your people, with your kingdom, with your cause. And help us to speak the truth in love, without being respecters of persons, without the fear of man driving us. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that is Jeremiah 38. Tomorrow we're going to go back to Revelation and pick up with Revelation 5. Remember, it's a scene in heaven that we began in Revelation 4 a few days ago. We're going to pick it up tomorrow. I hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.