Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you for our 873rd day together in the Word of God. And we are here in Jeremiah chapter 6. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. It divides, it penetrates by the power of your Holy Spirit. So let your word do its work in us today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah 6. Flee for safety, O people of Benjamin, from the midst of Jerusalem. Blow the trumpet in Tokoa and raise a signal on Beth Hakaram for disaster looms out of the north and great destruction. The lovely and delicate bread, delicately bred I will destroy, the daughter of Zion Shepherds with their flocks shall come against her. They shall pitch their tents around her. They shall pasture each in his place. Prepare war against her. Arise, and let us attack at noon. Woe to us, for the day declines, for the shadows of evening lengthen Arise, and let us attack by night and destroy her palaces. For thus says the Lord of hosts, cut down her trees. Cast up a siege mound against Jerusalem. This is the city that must be punished. There is nothing but oppression within her. As a well keeps its water fresh, so she keeps fresh her evil. Violence and destruction are heard within her Sickness and wounds are ever before me. Be warned, O Jerusalem, lest I turn from you in disgust, lest I make you a desolation, an uninhabited land. Thus says the Lord of hosts, they shall glean thoroughly as a vine, the remnant of Israel, like a grape-gatherer, pass your hand again over its branches. To whom shall I speak? And give warning that they may hear. Behold, your ears are uncircumcised. They cannot listen. Behold, the word of the Lord is to them an object of scorn They take no pleasure in it. Therefore, I am full of the wrath of the Lord. I am weary of holding it in. Pour it out upon the children in the street, and upon the gatherings of young men also, both husband and wife shall be taken the elderly and the very aged, their houses shall be turned over to others, their fields and wives together. For I will stretch out my hand against the inhabitants of the land, declares the Lord, for from the least to the greatest of them, every one is greedy for unjust gain And from prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely. They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, peace, peace, when there is no peace. Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No. They were not at all ashamed. They did not know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall Thus says the Lord, stand by the roads and look, and ask for the ancient path. where the good way is and walk in it and find rest for your soul But they said we will not walk in it. I set watchmen over you, saying, pay attention to the sound of the trumpet. But they said we will not pay attention. Therefore, hear, O nations, and know, O congregation, what will happen to them. Hear, O people, behold. I am bringing disaster upon this people, the fruit of their devices, because they have not paid attention to my words. And as for my law, they have rejected it. What use to me is frankincense that comes from Sheba, or sweet cane from a distant land? Your burnt offerings are not acceptable. nor your sacrifices pleasing to me. Therefore, thus says the Lord, behold, I will lay before this people Stumbling blocks against which they will stumble, fathers and sons together, neighbor and friend, shall perish Thus says the Lord, behold, a people is coming from the north country. A great nation is stirring from the farthest parts of the earth. They lay hold on foe and javelin. They are cruel and have no mercy. The sound of them is like the roaring sea. They ride on horses, set in array as a man for battle against you, O daughter of Zion. We have heard the report of it. Our hands fall helpless, anguish has taken hold of us, pain as of a woman in labor. Go not out into the field, nor walk on the road, for the enemy has a sword Terror is on every side. O daughter of my people, put on sackcloth and roll in ashes, make mourning as for an only son, most bitter lamentation For suddenly the destroyer will come upon us. I have made you a tester of metals among my people. That you may know and test their ways. They are all stubbornly rebellious Going about with slanders. They are bronze and iron. All of them act corruptly. The bellows blow fiercely, the lead is consumed by the fire in vain the refining goes on, for the wicked are not removed. Rejected silver they are called For the Lord has rejected them. That is Jeremiah chapter six. And it is More tough words from Jeremiah. There are glorious gospel chapters in Jeremiah, but Jeremiah is a prophet of lament and judgment. Time of judgment, and he's prophesying to a people who are stubborn and who will not hear the word of God. And really, I think the bottom line, if I could just say one thing about Jeremiah and Jeremiah 6, it is this It's so very clear that we have before us two options. Hear and heed the word of the Lord or suffer the consequences Of failing to do so. It's as simple and as bold as that. And yes, we live in a New Testament time, and yes The wrath of God was poured out on Jesus on the cross. And yes, our righteousness is fulfilled and complete in Jesus. And yes, all of our sins have been forgiven. But there is still Disciplinary judgment that comes for those who neglect the Word of God and those who stubbornly, who absolutely stubbornly refuse to hear and heed the Word of God. May indeed show themselves to be false believers. Those who have a profession of faith But no possession of Christ in their hearts. Because if Christ lives in your heart, if the Holy Spirit lives in you, if you are really a child of God, Yes, you will sin. Yes, you are still stubborn and selfish and foolish. But at the heart of it, you will hear and heed the word of God. Not perfectly, but the Word of God will convict. It will come with power. It will come with the might of the Holy Spirit. So what's the story with Jerusalem and Judah here? Well, it's a mixed story Some of them are true children of God who really do have faith and who are grieving in the midst of this place. They unfortunately suffer as well But they do so with Jeremiah, weeping, praying, pleading. And then there are many who are making a false profession. They're outwardly identified with the people of God, but their hearts are uncircumcised. God has said, their hearts are uncircumcised. So God is sending war. God is sending a siege army that's going to attack and destroy. The city is going to be punished. Why is the city going to be punished? Well, verse 7 gives us a reason, as a well keeps its water fresh, so she keeps fresh her evil. Violence and destruction are heard within her, sickness and wounds are ever before me. Keeping fresh evil. It's unrepentant. That is terrible. The trees around Jerusalem will be made into a siege mound. And Jerusalem will be made into a desolation, an uninhabited land. This is the first time in Israel's history that Jerusalem is going to be vacated. The walls torn down, the temple burned down, Jerusalem turned into a pile of rubble, and no one living there. For seventy years, until it is all rebuilt. But that's it. There will be a remnant, but it'll be a small group. It's the wrath of God. And again, why does it come? Verse ten gives us more reasons why it comes. Their ears are uncircumcised, they cannot listen. The word of the Lord is to them an object of scorn, and they take no pleasure in it. Therefore, I am full of the wrath of the Lord. I am weary of holding it in, pour it out on the children. We must hear and heed the word of God. We must hear the warning that comes against idolatry, the warning that comes against selfish faithlessness. From the least of them to the greatest of them, everyone is greedy for unjust gain. From prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely. They've healed the wound lightly, saying peace, peace where there is no peace. So three things that are happening here. One, everybody's out for making money. How can I make money off of this? Two, they're dealing falsely. They're hypocrites. They're double-tongued. They're mask wearing. They talk about the Lord, but they do what they want to do And then they speak a word of peace where there is no peace. And so despite all this, there's no shame. They don't even know how to blush. It's terrible. I pray that the Lord would really drive this home to our hearts and cause us to repent. Wherever we might need to repent. Are we self-seeking? Or are we, in some way, just really living for money in the pursuit of money? Are we ever false dealing, ever hypocritical, two-faced? and how we deal with people. Are we ever just quick to say a nice gentle word of peace when really the truth needs to be spoken in love, but about sin and consequences? That's what we need to do. Here's what God calls us to in verse 16. The call to us, stand by the roads and look and ask for the ancient paths. where the good way is and walk in it and find rest for your souls. There's value in old books. Love reading Puritan devotionals, love reading Spurgeon, love reading old Christians, because the same Christian faith that you find in Calvin's Institutes and sermons and in the writings of the Puritans and in Spurgeon and in others The same Lord, the same faith, the same obedience, the same gospel is there. We need to walk in that way. Make sure that our our understanding of Christianity is not so tainted by the culture that we're in, that we're wandering. Walk in the old paths. Find the good way and walk in it. And don't say we will not walk in it. When God warns about sin, don't say we will not pay attention. We need to hear and we need to heed the word of God. Let's pray. Father, your word is good. When it cuts us, it's because we need to be cut. When it calls us to repentance, it's because we need to repent. When it shows us the right way to go, it's because we need to walk in that way. So by your grace, by your Holy Spirit, give us hearts that hear and heed your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you for joining me for Jeremiah 6. Tomorrow we are going back to the Gospel of John. Picking up with John fourteen, hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day, Lord.