Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 909th day together in the Word of God, and we are here in Jeremiah chapter 30. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you're so good to us every day of our lives, and you pour out your truth, your goodness, and your beauty and blessings. And we receive so much from your word every day that we spend in it. We pray that you bless our time together in Jeremiah 30. Help us to receive the truth. Help us to see Christ and to trust in Him more deeply and walk more closely with Him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Jeremiah 30. The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord. Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel. Write in a book all the words that I have spoken to you. For behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will restore the fortunes of my people, Israel and Judah, says the Lord. and I will bring them back to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall take possession of it. These are the words that the Lord spoke concerning Israel and Judah. Thus says the Lord We heard a cry of panic, of terror, and no peace. Ask now and see, can a man bear a child Why then do I see every man with his hands on his stomach like a woman in labor? Why has every face turned pale? Alas That day is so great, there is none like it. It is a time of distress for Jacob, yet he shall be saved out of it And it shall come to pass in that day, declares the Lord of hosts, that I will break his yoke from off your neck, and I will burst your bonds, and foreigners shall no more make a servant of him. but they shall serve the Lord their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up for them. Then fear not, O Jacob my servant, declares the Lord, nor be dismayed, O Israel, for behold, I will save you from far away. and your offspring from the land of their captivity. Jacob shall return and have quiet and ease, and none shall make him afraid. For I am with you to save you, declares the Lord. I will make a full end of all the nations among whom I scattered you, but of you I will not make a full end. I will discipline you in just measure And I will by no means leave you unpunished. For thus says the Lord, your hurt is incurable And your wound is grievous. There is none to uphold your cause. No medicine for your wound, no healing for you. All Your lovers have forgotten you. They care nothing for you, for I have dealt you the blow of an enemy, the punishment of a merciless foe, because your guilt is great Because your sins are flagrant. Why do you cry out over your hurt? Your pain is incurable, because your guilt is great, because your sins are flagrant. I have done these things to you. Therefore all who devour you shall be devoured, and all your foes, every one of them, shall go into captivity. Those who plunder you shall be plundered, and on all and all those who prey on you I will make a prey. For I will restore health to you, and your wounds I will heal, declares the Lord, because they have called you an outcast. It is Zion for whom no one cares. Thus says the Lord Behold, I will restore the fortunes of the tent of Jacob, and have compassion on his dwellings. The city shall be rebuilt on its mound, and the palace shall stand where it used to be. One of them, out of them, shall come songs of thanksgiving, and the voices of those who celebrate. I will multiply them, and they shall not be few I will make them honored, and they shall not be small. Their children shall be as they were of old, and their congregation shall be established before me, and I will punish all who oppress them Their prince shall be one of themselves, their ruler shall come out of their from their midst. I will make him draw near, and he shall approach me For who would dare of himself to approach me, declares the Lord, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God. Behold the storm of the Lord, wrath has gone forth, a whirling tempest, it will burst upon the head of the wicked. The fierce anger of the Lord will not turn back until he has executed and accomplished the intentions of his mind. In the latter days, you will understand this. Those latter days, the very end of Jeremiah 30, are the days in which we are living. Because so much of what was prophesied in Jeremiah really didn't come to pass until Christ came and then will be consummated when he comes again. This is a great Christ-centered chapter, even though on the surface of it you might have missed a lot of it on a first read. Let's look at what the Lord is saying here. Jeremiah said some hard things to the people of God throughout this book. He has told them that they're going to be in exile for a long time. He's told them that the people who stayed behind in Jerusalem and Judah who think they're safe, they're actually going to get a worse consequence than the people who were taken off into exile. He's confronted the false prophets who are giving the people an easy hope. He said all that. Now, chapter 30, we start to turn a corner. And here we're getting promises, largely from chapter 30 to chapter 33, are promissory, they're hope-filled, they're future-looking, and they're ultimately consummated in Christ. God says, first of all, that He's going to restore the people. He's going to bring them back to the land. So after the 70 years, of course, he does that. They are in great distress. On the day when they're taken into captivity, on the final destruction of Jerusalem, there's also a day of great distress when Babylon falls, and the Medo-Persians take over, and the people of Judah and Jerusalem are restored back to uh to their homeland under the uh Edict of Cyrus the Great, which um comes at the end of the exile. But here, there's something bigger happening Because on this great day of salvation for God's people, he shall be saved out of it. Jacob shall be saved out of this day. He says that the yoke of the foreigner will be broken. The bonds will be broken, foreigners will no more make a servant of him, but they will serve the Lord their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them. When does this happen? Well, it happens first when Jesus comes, and when he in his death and resurrection, he inaugurates the new covenant age of the kingdom of God. And in the New Covenant age, the kingdom of God is no longer a nation among the nations of the earth. And so while we may suffer persecution, sometimes more intense, sometimes less intense, we may be in countries that allow greater freedom, countries that restrict freedom of religion. We are not as a people, right, under the yoke to serve another nation the way that Israel was when they were taken captive by the Babylonians, or even later when the Greeks conquered them, or later when the Romans conquered them. So this these verses about the the yoke being broken, this this cannot this cannot have been fulfilled when Cyrus the Great called for a return to Jerusalem and Judah because they're still under Cyrus the Great and the Medo-Persians. And after that they're under the Greeks and the descendants from the Greeks. And after that they're under the Romans. It's a brief period of independence and then after the Maccabees Revolution in in the mid 100s BC, uh lasts less than a hundred years, really. Maybe a little maybe a little more than a hundred years. But uh this is not fulfilled then. But Jesus, first of all, by overcoming sin and death, he inaugurates a kingdom that is not a kingdom of this world. Daniel prophesies this by the stone that was cut by no human hand that strikes the statue at the feet of clay mixed with iron, which is during the Roman Empire days. and becomes a mountain that fills the whole earth. This is the dream that Nebuchadnezzar has in Daniel chapter 2 that Daniel translates, interprets for him to show him that there's this successive series of kingdoms. But there's a point when Jesus comes that he destroys this bondage of being a a political see being an earthly political entity means that you can be held in bondage by another earthly political entity. But if you're not an earthly political entity, like where is the church today? Where would you go to sort of take it captive? Can't do it. It's dispersed among all the peoples of the earth. It is not an earthly kingdom. It has no earthly headquarters. It has no earthly organizational structure and yet it is the largest kingdom in the world, the oldest kingdom in the world, serving the greatest king in the world by far, and it cannot be controlled But then it'll be consummated, it'll be perfected when Jesus comes again on that great day of the Lord, that great day of judgment Which verse seven is ultimately referring to a day like no other, when all evil is put to a final end, all the nations of the earth are judged, and God's people are set free forever, so we're not even persecuted or hated or despised anymore, but we enter into real freedom. So, when God's talking here about, oh Jacob, my servant, He's talking about his chosen people. And his chosen people are all of those who are in Christ, who is the king that was promised. He is the David who's going to be raised up. They will serve the Lord their God and David their father, whom I will raise up for them. All those who serve this greater David. Greater son of David, the Lord Jesus Christ, are those who are Jacob, who are spiritual Israel, who are the fulfillment of the people of God. And we're gathered together from far away. All over the world, wherever believers are among the peoples of the earth, in a sense, we're in a land of exile, in a sense a land of captivity, and yet the kingdom itself is not held captive. And so one day Jesus is going to come again, and when he comes again, he's going to gather in all of his people from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. And there will be great rejoicing. We're going to be seeing this in Revelation. There's going to be great rejoicing in that day at the end of all distress because. He says in verse 11, very clearly, for I am with you to save you, declares the Lord, I will make a full end of all the nations among whom I scattered you. When is that going to happen? Only when Jesus comes again. But God will make a full end of all the nations where his people are scattered. And where are all of his people scattered? This is not talking about a Jewish diaspora. This is talking about the Church of Jesus Christ, which is found in every nation of the world. And before he comes again, this is why Jesus says before he comes again, the gospel has to be taken to every people, every nation, every tribe, every tongue, all the peoples of the earth, because God has a people that's scattered among all the peoples of the earth. And when that people is gathered in, all the nations will have a full end made of them. Verse 12 gets us to gospel realities Why were God's people subject to discipline by the hand of the Lord because of their sin? Is there any earthly cure possible? for sin, guilt, and judgment from God. No, no earthly cure. Only God Can cure us. Our guilt is great, our sins are fragrant, our pain is incurable, but God does save us. Verse 17, for I will restore health to you, and your wounds I will heal. How does that happen? It happens through the cross. Through the cross. Rock of ages, cleft for me, let my hide let me hide myself in thee. Be of sin the double cure, cleanse me of its guilt and power What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. He bears our iniquities, as Isaiah 53 says, and by his stripes we are healed. That's the healing that we need. It's the healing that comes through the cross. We're healed of our sin, the guilt of it, the condemnation of it now in this life. But when Jesus comes again, we're going to be healed of our sin. Even the presence of it in our lives, even the very struggle against it, will be lifted. It will be completely, completely cured And on that day when the Lord has compassion on us, on that day when he gathers us in, we'll sing songs of thanksgiving, we will celebrate, we will be honored And now, in anticipation of that day, as we taste the first fruits of our salvation, the forgiveness of our sins, the relief of our condemnation, now we should be singing songs of thanksgiving, and we should be celebrating. Their prince, verse 21, shall be one of themselves. Their elders shall come, their ruler shall come out of their midst. Jesus was a man. He was born of Mary. He was born of the tribe of Judah. He was born in Bethlehem, the city of David. He was a man. Yet he was also God. He was also the David that God was raising up, and so he is this prince, this ruler And when he comes, he makes us the people of God, adopted as his children, and he makes God our God forever. The day of the Lord is coming. The day of the Lord is coming. And in latter days, the latter days that we live in, which is the time between Christ's first coming and second coming, the time between Pentecost and the parousia. at the pouring out of the Holy Spirit to the coming again of Jesus Christ. This is the latter days, and we understand now the meaning of Jeremiah 30 that nobody understood for hundreds of years after it was given. And that meaning is all consummated in Christ Jesus our Lord. Let's pray. Father, your word is wonderful, rich, full of truth. How how could any human being write? hundreds of years before Jesus comes, of these truths that are delivered to us fully in Jesus Christ. This must be your word It's come by the power of your Holy Spirit. It's come through the true prophet Jeremiah. It's come breathed out from the very mouth of God. And we thank you for it. In Jesus' name Amen. Well, that is Jeremiah 30. Tomorrow we are going back to Revelation, picking up Revelation chapter 2. I hope you will join me for that, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.