Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I'm trying to get these uh Volume levels downright. Alright. And we are in day 938. Back in the prophet Jeremiah. Jeremiah 49 is before us today. Last time we were in Jeremiah a couple days ago, we had a word about Moab. Now we have a word about Ammon. Moab and Amon were the brothers, uh sons of Lot. Let's Pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for Jeremiah 49. Would you please write this on our hearts? Help us to understand it. Help us to receive it. Help us to believe. What we see in your word, help us to see Christ, the King, and to follow after Him more closely. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Okay, it is Jeremiah 49. Concerning the Ammonites, thus says the Lord Has Israel no sons? Has he no heir? Why then has Milcom dispossessed Gad and his people settled in its city? Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will cause the battle cry to be heard against Rabbah of the Ammonite. Then Israel shall dispossess those who dispossessed him, says the Lord Lord. Wail, O Heshphan, for Ai is laid waste. Cry out, O daughters of Rabba, put on sackcloth, lament, and run to and fro among the hedges For Milcom shall go into exile with his priests and his officials. Why do you boast of your valleys, O faithless dog? daughter, who trusted in her treasures, saying, Who will come against me? Behold, I will bring terror upon you declares the Lord God of hosts, from all who are around you, and you shall be driven out, every man straight before him, with none to gather the fugitives, but afterward I will restore the fortunes of the Ammonites, declares the Lord. Concerning Edom Thus says the Lord of hosts, Is wisdom no more in Temon? Has counsel perished from the prudent? Has their wisdom vanished? Flee, turn back, dwell in the depth, O inhabitants of Dedon For I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him the time when I punish him. If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleaning If thieves came by night, would they not destroy only enough for themselves? But I have stripped Esau. Bear, I have uncovered his hiding places, and he is not able to conceal himself. His children are destroyed. and his brothers, and his neighbors, and he is no more. Leave your fatherless children I will keep them alive, and let your widows trust in me. For thus says the Lord If those who did not deserve to drink the cup must drink it, will you go unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, but you You must drink, for I have sworn by myself, declares the Lord, that Basra shall become a horror, a taunt, a waste, and a curse, and all her cities shall be per Perpetual wastes. I have heard a message from the Lord, and an envoy has been sent among the nations. Gather yourselves together And come against her, and rise up for battle, for behold, I will make you small among the nations, despised among mankind. The horror you inspire has deceived you And the pride of your heart, you who live in the clefts of the rock, who hold the height of the hill, though you make your nest as high as the eagle Eagles, I will bring you down from there, declares the Lord, Edom shall become a horror. Every one who passes by it will be horrified and will hiss because of all its disaster. As when Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring cities were overthrown, says the Lord, no man shall dwell there, no man shall sojourn in her. Behold, like a lion coming up from the jungle of the Jordan against a perennial pasture, I will suddenly make him run away from her. And I will appoint over her whomever I choose. For who is like me? Who will summon me? What shepherd can stand before me? Therefore hear the plan that the Lord has made against Edom and the purposes that he has formed against the inhabitants of Timon. Even the little ones of the flock shall be dragged away. Surely their fold shall be appalled at their fate. At the sound of their fall, the earth shall tremble. The sound of their cry shall be heard at the Red Sea Behold, one shall mount up and fly swiftly like an eagle and spread his wings against Basrah, and the heart of the warriors of Edom shall be in that day like the heart of a woman in her birth pain. Concerning Damascus. Hamath and Arpad are confused, for they have heard bad news, they melt in fear, they are troubled like the sea, they cannot be quiet. Feeble She turned to flee, and panic seized her, anguish and sorrows have taken hold of her, as of a woman in labor. not forsaken the city of my joy. Therefore her young men shall fall in her squares, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed. destroyed in that day, and I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben Hadad. Concerning Kedar and the kingdoms of Hazor, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon struck down, thus says the Lord, Rise up, advance against Kedar, destroy the people of the east. Their tents and their flocks shall be taken, their curtains and their goods, their camels shall be led away from them, and men shall cry to them, Terror on every side. Flee, wander far away, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Hazor, declares the Lord. For Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, has made a plan again. against you and formed a purpose against you. Rise up, advance, against a nation at ease that dwells securely, declares the Lord that has no gates or bars, that dwells alone. Their camels shall become plunder, their herds of livestock a spoil. I will scatter to every wind. Those who cut the corners of their hair, and I will bring their calamity from every side of them, declares the Lord. Lord. Hazor shall become a haunt of jackals, an everlasting waste. No man shall dwell there, no man shall sojourn in her The word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zekiah, king of Judah, thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, I will break the bow of Elam the mainstay of their might, and I will bring upon Elam the four winds from the four quarters of heaven, and I will scatter them to all those winds, and there shall be no nation to which those driven out of Elam shall I will send the sword after them until I have consumed them, and I will set my throne in Elam and destroy their king and officials, declares the Lord But in the latter days, I will restore the fortunes of Elam, declares the Lord. Alright, this is a a long chapter here in Jeremiah addressing a number of nations, some of which have relationships with Israel. So we talked about Moab last time and said at the beginning, Amon, the brother of Moab, these are the sons of Lot. And if you remember that ugly, ugly story at the end of Lot's life um his daughters did not have husbands, did not have sons, and so they got their father drunk and they lay with him and they bore sons. And and the Ammonites and the Moabites were were cursed by God because And yet they were still relatives of Abraham. And then we have Edom here, who are of course the children of Esau, so they are actually children of Abraham. Not of Isaac, but of Esau. And so we have some some nations that are related to Israel, but then you have also nations, other nations that are not directly related to Damascus. and Elam. So the Moabites. The Moabites is present-day Amon Jordan. I'm sorry, the Moab I'm looking at the word Ammonites and say Moabites. The Ammonites. So the present-day Amon Jordan. That's from this word ammo Ammonites. Amon. Back then their capital city was called Rabbah. Rabba of the Ammonites is today Amon of Ammonites of Jordan. So it's just on the other side of the Jordan River from Israel. And so you've got This question being asked, it may be a little confusing, has Israel no sons? Has he no heir? Why then has Milcom dispossessed Gad and his people settled in its cities Well, this happened after the aftermath of the Assyrian invasion. So this is 140 years prior to where Jeremiah is dealing with. When the Assyrians invaded and they took northern Israel, many of the cities of Israel, the northern Israel, um in the territory of Gad, the tribe of Gad were taken over by the Ammonites. And basically Jeremiah, the Lord is saying through Jeremiah, this isn't your this isn't your territory. This is part of why when Jesus came, even though Jesus in his earthly ministry was sent only to the lost tribes of the house of Israel, he went across the Jordan. He ministered in the Trans Jordan area of what would have been Ammonite territory because that was originally territory that was allotted to the people of Gad, and there were Jewish people over there Um but he Jesus does cross over the Jordan and go to the other side of the Sea of Galilee because he is concerned to reach all of those territories that were laid out. out uh by God and given to the people of Israel. That's his task is to go to all of the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And then of course after him the apostles in the book of Acts would spread that out to the Samaritans and then And the Gentiles, especially Acts 10 and 11, which I've been reading in my personal daily Bible reading, is that pivot of church history where the gospel turns. to the Gentiles with Cornelius. But anyway, back to Jeremiah 49. God is gonna judge the Ammonites. And so um because during uh Jehoiakim's reign, the the Ammonites had uh conspired together with Judah. against Babylon when Zedekiah uh had reigned and um but then later they they had they had raided Judah. So So the Ammonites have this complicated history where sometimes they're raiding into Judah, sometimes they're cooperating with Judah against their enemies, but God is going to bring judgment upon them And he calls for repentance. He says, when the judgment comes, they need to put on sackcloth and lament. Which are signs of repentance. They need to stop trusting in their false priests, their false religion. They need to stop trusting in their treasures. Verse 4 calls upon them to quit trusting in their treasures. In this they have some some overlap with Moab, because Moab the Moabites, remember we talked about them, they also tended to trust in their riches And be very proud. You had the Arnon River in Moab that gave them great wealth. You have the Jabok River, which is up in Ammon that gives them uh treasure. So Am the Ammonites are to the north of the Mulbites and they're both on the other side of the Jordan. And so God is calling upon them to stop being treacherous to God's people and to repent of their pride and of their self-satisfaction. But they are going to be judged. They're going to have terror come upon them. But we have this refrain a couple times in this chapter. But afterward God says, I will restore the fortunes of the Ammonites. That's a reference to there is immediate judgment, but the plan in the future, just as he does for Moab, just as he does for Israel, we see at the end of the chapter also for Elam, God's going to bring restoration. What is that about? Well that's about the fact that when Jesus comes and accomplishes salvation and the Holy Spirit is poured out at Pentecost There are Jewish people from these territories who hear the gospel at Pentecost and who receive Jesus as Lord and Savior are baptized or added to the church. And the gospel spreads from Jerusalem and Judea to all the ends of the earth, including to these nations. And so today, living in the In the days of grace of the gospel, the Ammonites and the Edomites and the Moabites and the Elamites, all of these Have an open call to receive Jesus Christ as Lord, to call upon the Lord and be saved. This is a day of grace for them as it is for all nations on earth. Now attention turns to Edom. This prophecy, by the way, here in Jeremiah 49, overlaps considerably with the book of Obadiah, probably given around the same time. And so you have the Edomites when Nebuchadnezzar came in and destroyed Judah and took Jerusalem. Jerusalem, the Edomites were were boasting about it. They were bragging that finally they were rid of the Judahites who were They're their neighbors, their brothers, they're both descendants of Abraham, but who had, you know, been wealthier and more successful than them. And so they They were uh gloating over it. Now there's retribution. And so God brings it back upon Edom's head, and they're going to be stripped bare and uncovered And um but then even there, even as God is prophesying judgment of stripping them bare and uncovering the hiding places, he also calls them to Come to him. Leave your fatherless children, he says in verse 11. I will keep them alive, and let your widows trust me. So there will be men killed, there will be widows and fatherless children, but there's an invitation that even though the the nation is drinking the cup of judgment, God will be gracious to those, and if they will come to Him, if they will trust in Him, He will be uh He will keep them. them and he will guard them. Um let's just jump down to um Damascus. Damascus, same city today, Damascus, present day Syria, one of the oldest cities. in the world. It had been dominated by Assyria, it had been dominated then by Babylon. But Damascus is has has always been one of the key, important, wealthy cities At a very important crossroads of trade. And so now they are going to be conquered by the Babylonians. They're going to be forsaken. They're they're a very very famous city, very well known, already one of the oldest and most glorious cities in the world. And again It's a city that's still around today. There's a small handful of cities like Jerusalem and Damascus um and Athens that you can trace all the way back thousands of years to ancient times. And but there's judgment coming. So just because a city is big, just because a city is important, just because a city has a long-standing reputation doesn't mean it's safe. God can send judgment. God rules over all of the nations of the world. And so some of the great cities of the world have at times come under judgment. And we need to hear that. in in America. We need to hear that in our own lives. There's no safety or security. You can have soldiers, you can have wealth, but that will not keep you from the judgment of God. Kidar is an Arabic clan, so one of the descendants um of Ishmael and they live on the other side uh down in the the desert area sort of northern Arabia on the other side of uh the desert And so these people are wealthy, they are merchants, and they are going to be struck down God calls upon Nebuchadnezzar to strike them down and to take their goods. Nebuchadnezzar really spreads what was the largest kingdom in the world to that time. So the Assyrians come in the 700s BC and they get the largest kingdom ever, then the Babylonians come and they get an even larger kingdom, and then after them, hundreds Of years later, Alexander, the Great the Greek Empire conquers yet an even larger area, and then finally the Romans come and they conquer yet an even larger area and hold on to it for even longer. So this history of this part of the world is one uh empire after another. And this is all under the hand of God. four kingdoms that are going to be there, the Persians and the Medes and Persians and then the Greeks and the Romans, because he's the Lord of all of it. Um so all these disasters, this is what we're seeing in Revelation. All these wars, all these conquerors, all these disasters disasters, all this devastation, famine, right? You have the herds of livestock become a spoil. You have um an everlasting waste that's being brought on. This is desolation. It is all under the hand of God. It is not an act of And then the final nation to be addressed here is Elam, that's actually east of Babylon in the lower Tigris River Valley, so it's pretty far away. Um but even the Elamites, as far away as they are, are under the power of the Lord. I'm going to terrify Elam before her enemies and those who seek their life. I'm going to bring to Disaster upon them. But again, the good news at the end, in the latter days I will restore the fortunes of Elam, declares the Lord. Even Elam can hear the gospel and can have a future salvation in Jesus. So what do we see here? Well again, the big theme, the obvious theme, is that the Lord is sovereign over all the affairs of the nations. This is something we need to take to heart. We live in kind of crazy times, right? Just in the past few weeks we've seen things happen that, you know, assassination attempts uh sitting president deciding he needs to step down from re-election because he's not capable of serving another term in office, um uncertainty, unrest Of course there's the ongoing war between Israel and the and the Palestinians in in Gaza. There's the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine. There's the rising power of China in the world and its influence around the world. We have economic uncertainty coming in the future. It's i i the world seems crazy, doesn't it? Seems like it's spinning out of control, doesn't it? It's not. It's not. This is nothing new. Like Ecclesiastes says, there's nothing new under the sun. This is nothing new Assassinations and attempted assassinations and changes of power and conflict and wars and rumors of wars have always happened throughout the history of the world. And God is in charge of it all. There is never a reason for God's children to panic To wonder what in the world is happening? Why is all, you know, we can ask why, but ultimately the Lord knows why, and he calls us to trust him. So that's a big thing, right? The Lord is sovereign over the nations. The world is not spinning out of control. The Lord is in control. The second thing is the gospel for the nations. What are we to be doing in a world that is beyond our understanding of why things are happening? We are to be faithful. To the latter days promises that are given to the nations here in Jeremiah 49 to take the gospel to them. Many of these areas that were promised. This gospel grace in Jeremiah 49 are today under Muslim domination. Many of them did have the gospel for hundreds of years. Many of them they they still do have some believers there But this is a call for us to support missions going into the Middle East, going into Islamic areas, to take the gospel of Jesus Christ, to bring the good news of salvation and the rightful king of of kings and word of lords to every tribe, tongue, people and nation, to Elamites and Moabites and Ammonites and Damascus in Syria and Edomites, all over people need to hear. The gospel of Jesus Christ. It's the good news that God promised to them, even in the midst of these judgments. Let's pray. Father, help us to trust you in the midst of chaos that seems out of control from a human perspective. perspective that is beyond our ability to understand or predict or control, but it is not beyond you. You reign over all the affairs of the world. You are the sovereign lord. And may we as your people be committed to the gospel of your kingdom, to proclaim to the nations the Lord reigns, and you can have peace with God through his Son. Jesus Christ. This is the message we are sent to take to the nations. We pray that you would make us faithful to that end. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 49. Tomorrow we're going to go on to Jeremiah 50. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.