Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church Day 911, 911, Jeremiah 31. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for Just a wonderful blessing it is to be able to spend time in your word every day. It's a gift. It's a gift we don't deserve. It's a gift from your heart. That you disclose yourself and your ways and your promises and your son and your salvation to us for our good and for your glory. So we pray that you would do that through Jeremiah 31 today, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Jeremiah 31. At that time, declares the Lord, I will be the God of all the clans of Israel, and they shall be my people. Thus says the Lord. The people who survived the sword found grace in the wilderness. When Israel sought for rest, the Lord appeared to him from far away. I have loved you with an everlasting love. Therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you. Again I will build you, and you shall be built, O Virgin Israel Again you shall adorn yourself with tambourines, and shall go forth in the dance of the merry makers. Again you shall plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria. The planters shall plant and shall enjoy the fruit. For there shall be a day when watchmen will call in the hill country of Ephraim, Arise, let us go up to Zion to the Lord our God. For thus says the Lord, sing aloud with gladness for Jacob, and raise shouts for the chief of the nations, proclaim, give praise, and say, O Lord, save your people, the remnant of Israel Behold, I will bring them from the north country, and gather them from the farthest parts of the earth, among them the blind and the lame, the pregnant woman, and she who is in labor together, a great company, they shall return here. With weeping they shall come, and with pleas for mercy I will lead them back. I will make them walk by brooks of water. in a straight path in which they shall not stumble, for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my firstborn. Hear the word of the Lord, O nations, and declare it in the coastlands far away. Say, He who scattered Israel will gather him, and he will keep him as a shepherd keeps his flock For the Lord has ransomed Jacob, and has redeemed him from hands too strong for him. They shall come and sing aloud on the height of Zion. And they shall be radiant over the goodness of the Lord, over the grain, the wine, and the oil, and over the young of the flock and the herd. Their life shall be like a watered garden, and they shall languish no more. Then shall the young women rejoice in the dance, and the young men and the old shall be merry I will turn their mourning into joy. I will comfort them and give them gladness for sorrow. I will feast the soul of the priests with abundance, and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness, declares the Lord. Thus says the Lord, a voice is heard in Rhema Lamentation and bitter weeping. Rachel is weeping for her children. She refuses to be comforted for her children, because they are no more Thus says the Lord, keep your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears, for there is a reward for your work, declares the Lord. And they shall come back from the land of the enemy. There is hope for your future, declares the Lord, and your children shall come back to their own country. I have heard Ephraim grieving. You have disciplined me, and I was disciplined, like an untrained calf. Bring me back that I may be restored. For you are the Lord my God. For after I had turned away, I relented, and after I was instructed I struck my thigh. I was ashamed and I was confounded, because I bore the disgrace of my youth. Is Ephraim my dear son? Is he my darling child? For as often as I speak against him, I do remember him still. Therefore my heart yearns for him. I will surely have mercy on him, declares the Lord. Set up road markers for yourself. Make yourself guideposts. Consider well the highway, the road by which you went. Return, O Virgin Israel, return to these your cities. How long will you waver, O faithless daughter? For the Lord has created a new thing on earth A woman encircles a man. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel Once more they shall use these words in the land of Judah and in the cities, and in its cities, when I restore their fortunes. The Lord bless you, O habitation of righteousness, O holy hill. And Judah and all its cities shall dwell there together. And the farmers and those who wander with their flocks, for I will satisfy the weary soul and every languishing soul I will replenish. At this I awoke and looked, and my sleep was pleasant to me. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man and the seed of beast. And it shall come to pass that as I have watched over them to pluck up and break down, to overthrow, destroy, and bring harm, so I will watch over them to build and to plant, declares the Lord. In those days, they shall no longer say, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge, but every one shall die for his own iniquity. Each man who eats sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on edge. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them And I will write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people, and no longer shall each one teach his neighbor, and each one his brother, saying, Know the Lord For they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sins no more. Thus says the Lord. who gives the sun for light by day, and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the Lord, then shall the offspring of Israel cease from being a nation before me forever. Thus says the Lord. If the heavens above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth below can be explored, then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done, declares the Lord. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when the city shall be rebuilt for the Lord, from the tower of Hananel to the corner gate And the measuring line shall go out farther, straight to the hill Garib, and then shall turn, and shall then turn to Goa The whole valley of the dead bodies and the ashes and all the fields as far as the Brook Kidron To the corner of the horse-gate toward the east shall be sacred to the Lord. It shall not be plucked up or overthrown anymore forever. That is Jeremiah 31. And it's a very well-known passage because of the promise of the new covenant. And we will get to that in a few minutes. But we'll begin back at the beginning of the chapter. This is good news. This is good news because we've heard a lot of judgment in in Jeremiah. Jeremiah the weeping prophet, Jeremiah the the prophet who speaks boldly about coming judgment. through tears, the prophet who has a hard message, the prophet who's opposed by false prophets who want to give the people an easier message, the prophet who says, No, you're going to go away for 70 years of exile. Well now Jeremiah is in a season of his ministry where he gets to give give good news. He gets to give good news. And what we have here is really the fulfillment Of the covenant promises that God has made to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and to their descendants. to all those who are his people. The covenant of grace. There's one covenant of grace, and it's expressed in the promises given to Abraham. It's expressed in the covenant promises given to Israel. It's expressed in the covenantal kingship of David. And it's expressed here in Jeremiah the prophet as well. And that is that God will be the God of His people, and His people will belong to Him as His people, and there will be peace, and there will be forgiveness, there will be redemption and restoration. And there will be one people with one God. Now, what is surprising, the mystery kept hidden even at this point, that Paul says is revealed in the last days in Christ. is that the Gentiles are fellow partakers with the Jews in these covenant promises Paul says explicitly, that is the mystery that was kept hidden, but is now revealed in Christ. Because you read this new covenant promise and it sounds like it's only for Jewish people. for the house of Israel, in the house of Judah, for the people of Jerusalem. But in Christ, the the covenant promises expand in a most gracious way. It was hinted at Because the very first covenant promise that was given to Abraham was that through him all the nations, all the families of the earth would be blessed. And so it had been promised and that had been hinted at. But in this chapter, you can see it looks like it's a national promise for just the nation, the nation state. of Israel, the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel. But that's not the case. The case is that this has been expanded to include all Gentiles. All of those who have faith, all of those who by faith are joined to Jesus, the seed of Abraham, and thus are made children of God and heirs of the promises given to Abraham. So, God's people. They were taken off by sword. They were in the wilderness. They need rest. This is us. We're folding into these promises. We may not have suffered the Babylonian exile historically, but this is true of of God's people in in in general, and that is that we're born into this world under the slavery of captivity to sin and death. We're born under the tyranny of the devil, who is our master, until we are set free, and God sets us free. Why does God set us free? Because He's loved us with an everlasting love, and therefore He's continued His faithfulness to you. The Bible tells us that if you belong to Jesus Christ by faith, if you're a child of God, it's because God has loved you personally with an everlasting love. Ephesians 1 says, He chose you in him before the foundations of the world. In love, he predestined you for adoption as sons. That's Ephesians 1, uh, verses 4, 5, and 6. And so we see that this is the covenant promise, that there's an everlasting love. Not just for the house of Israel, but for all of God's chosen people. And God does discipline his people, but God also blesses his people. God does chastises people, but God also establishes his people, and his heart is to establish, his heart is to bless, his heart is to redeem. And so he gathers his people in The remnant of Israel. The remnant, who's the remnant of Israel? That is those who believe. The true believers, because it was never the case that all of the nation of Israel were truly the people of God, but it was the believers among the nation of Israel who were truly the people of God. just as it is the true believers in Jesus throughout the whole world, every tribe, tongue, people, and nation who are the people of God. And when Jesus comes again, He will gather us into himself. He will bring us into his home, into his holy city, into his new creation that he inherits from the Father, and we will have Everlasting joy. We will we will walk in straight paths, we will not stumble, we will have uh peace with God forever. There will be no more uh pain or sorrow or death or fear of any enemy. How can he do this? Because he's ransomed us. Look at verse 11. For the Lord has ransomed Jacob and has redeemed him from hands too strong for him Ransom is the payment of a price to buy someone out of slavery. Redemption. is to be bought back from from a debt that you cannot pay or from a wrong that's been done to you. Jesus is the ransom and the redemption. He paid that price on the cross to make us his. And because he's made us his, when he comes again we will come and sing aloud on the height of Zion. We will be radiant. over the goodness of the Lord. And we should preview that every time we gather for worship on the Lord's Day morning, we call it the Lord's Day because it's the day of the Lord. It's an anticipation. of the final ingathering. We gather together week by week. We sing praises to the Lord. We rejoice in the ransom, the redemption that is ours in Christ Jesus, and we anticipate that final gathering in that is coming in the day to come. In that day, all of our morning of this life will be turned into joy. We will be comforted. We will be given gladness for sorrow. That's already been done for us. in that we no longer have the guilt and the shame and the condemnation and the fear of death that would plague us if we did not have Christ. So in Christ, our mourning has been turned into joy, and we have received comfort and we have received gladness. However, we know that as long as we live in this fallen world and as long as we remain sinners, we will continue to mourn. We will continue to have sorrow. And so there's a time when we won't just be given more joy and comfort, but all the mourning will be taken away and all the sorrow will be taken away forever. Verse 15. Unusual verse. A voice is heard in Rhema Lamentation, bitter weeping, Rachel weeping for her children. Rachel died and was buried in Bethlehem The children of Rachel include David, who was born in Bethlehem, and Jesus, who was born in Bethlehem. Matthew tells us that when Herod the king issued the decree to slaughter all the babies in Bethlehem who were two years old or younger, that this was in keeping with this verse, this sad verse here in the midst of a happy section, because the coming of the Redeemer, the coming of the promised one, will come with weeping. in this slaughter of the innocents in Bethlehem by Herod. But we do not need to weep. We do not need to cry. Because God is being gracious to us and we are being delivered. Alright, let's jump down to the new covenant promise because We don't want to, if we send spend time on every single verse, it would take us hours to get through this passage. It's so wonderful and rich. The new covenant promise is given to us, starting in verse 31. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant. With the house of Israel and the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant that they broke, though I was their husband. People have said, some people have said, because the new covenant is not like the old covenant And because immediately before the promise of the new covenant, we have this statement of how the saying in Jeremiah's day, a common proverb, it's also quoted in Ezekiel 18. The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth are set on edge. But this is the generational curse that comes under the covenant of Moses. And that that's removed. And so some people have said the new covenant's not like the old covenant. We're no longer cursed for our father's sins. And so that means that there's also no generational promise of blessing. Remember, God had promised, I will be a God to you and to your children after you throughout their generations. And they say, well that's removed because the new covenant is not like the old covenant. That is not what God means here. Tomorrow when we're in Jeremiah 32, we will see explicitly in Jeremiah 32, verse 40, that that is not what God means. What God means here is that the old covenant was written on tablets of stone. It was an external covenant. So this is related to verse 34. No longer shall each one teach his neighbor, and each his brother saying, Know the Lord. For they shall all know me from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord. The old covenant was written on tablets of stone. It was an external law And it was given through teaching externally. Now people could come to faith, and that faith was given by God, but it wasn't written on the heart in the same way that the new covenant is. It wasn't internal. In the same way, in the same way that the new covenant is. That's what's different. It and and uh Ezekiel goes into this even more explicitly. But it has to do with the heart of stone being taken out and the heart of flesh being given, and the law no longer being written on tablets of stone, but being written on the human heart. The New Testament makes that very clear. That's the difference. That's the difference. And so because of that, we all have personal experiential knowledge of God Whether we read God's Word, we are personally convicted of sin by the Holy Spirit who lives within us and who writes God's word on our hearts. When we read gospel promises, we are personally comforted by the Holy Spirit who assures us. of eternal life. That indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit, that internalizing of the Word of God is the key. of the of the new covenant and what makes it new and what makes it different. You see, the other thing that makes that possible is that the old covenant was a covenant that God's people could break. Look at verse thirty two. The old covenant was a covenant that they broke. Though I was their husband. Jesus has so kept the new covenant, so fulfilled the new covenant, that it cannot be broken And so now it is written on our hearts. I will put my law within them. I will write it on their hearts. I will be their God, and they shall be my people. I will be their God, and they shall be my people, because the covenant is kept in Christ and written on our hearts. And that is the good news of the new covenant. And it continues to have promises for our children. That we should bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. That is a generational command with a promise. And that is something that is given to God's people, even in the new covenant age. How serious is God about this? He's going to keep this covenant. He's not going to break it. The whole order of creation would have to pass away before God would break this covenant promise. So we can know. But we are secure in Christ. The promises have been kept. The new covenant has been inaugurated. The Redeemer has come and paid the ransom price Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for such a Savior as the Lord Jesus Christ, the promised Redeemer, the one who pays the ransom to rescue us from slavery and death. We thank you for the hope that we have in Christ that is unshakable. We pray that you would be with us. Help us to live by faith today. Help us to walk in knowing you. In fellowship with you, in calling upon you, in in loving you for how much you have loved us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 31. Tomorrow we'll go on to chapter 32. Have a blessed day in the Lord.