Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On our 924th day together in the Word of God, we come to Jeremiah chapter 40. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, for your faithfulness to us day by day, and for this opportunity we have again to spend time in a chapter of your word. We pray that you would write Jeremiah forty on our hearts and help us to respond in faith, in love and obedience, to see Jesus and to walk more closely with Him, to respond to your word with with faith and love and hope. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, yesterday we saw Jerusalem besieged and burned. We saw the sons of King Zedekiah slaughtered before his eyes, before his own eyes were put out. We saw Jeremiah protected We saw the Ethiopian eunuch who had helped Jeremiah get out of the cistern protect. Now what? Now what happens after Jerusalem has fallen? Well, here we pick up with Jeremiah 40. The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord after Nebuchadnezzar, the captain of the guard, had let him go from Ramah. when he took him bound in chains, along with all the captives of Jerusalem and Judah who were being exiled to Babylon, the captain of the guard took Jeremiah and said to him, The Lord your God promised this disaster against this place. The Lord has brought it about and has done as he said Because you sinned against the Lord and did not obey his voice, this thing has come upon you. Now behold, I release you today from the chains of your hands If it seems good to you to come with me to Babylon, come, and I will look after you well. But if it seems wrong to you to come with me to Babylon, do not come. See, the whole land is before you wherever you think it is good and right to go. If ye remain, then return to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikim, the son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon appointed governor of the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people. Or go wherever you think it right to go. So the captain of the guard gave him an allowance of food and a present and let him go. Then Jeremiah went to Gedaliah the son of Ahikim at Mizpah and lived with him among the people who were left in the land When all the captains of the forces in the open country and the men and their men heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikim, governor in the land, and had committed to him men, women, and children, those of the poorest of the land, who had not been taken into exile to Babylon, they went to Gedaliah at Mizbah Ishmael, the son of Nathaniah, Johannon, the son of Koreah, Sarah, the son of Tanhumath, the sons of Ephi, the Netophravite, Jezaniah, the son of the Maichithite, they and their men. Gedaliah, the son of Ahikim, son of Shaphan, swore to them and their men, saying, Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you. As for me, I will dwell at Mizbah to represent you before the Chaldeans who will come to us. But as for you Gather wine and summer fruits and oil, and store them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities that you have taken. Likewise when all the Judeans who were in Moab and among the Ammonites and in Edom And in all the other lands heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant in Judah, and had appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikim, the son of Shapah, as governor over them, then all the Judeans returned from all the places to which they had been driven. And they came to the land of Judah to Get Eliah at Mizpah. And they gathered wine and summer fruits in great abundance. Now Johanna, the son of Korea, and all the leaders of the forces in the open country, came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. And said to him, Do you know that Balath, the king of the Ammonites, has sent Ishmael the son of Nephaniah to take your life? But Gedalih the son of Ahikim would not believe them Then Johanna, the son of Korea, spoke secretly to Gedaliah at Mizpah. Please let me go and strike down Ishmael, the son of Nephanon, Nephaniah, and no one will know it Why should he take your life so that all the Judeans who are gathered about you would be scattered and the remnant of Judah would perish? But Gedaliah, the son of Ahikim, said to Johannon, the son of Korea, You shall not do this thing, for you are speaking falsely of Ishmael. Jeremiah 40 is an interesting chapter. On the surface of it, it just seems like a transition. It's setting things up for What's going to happen in Jeremiah 41 that we'll get to in a couple of days, and if you were looking at the screen, you may have seen the title of Jeremiah 41 little plot spoiler. But um Really, what we're seeing here is how good God is to his people, even in the midst of deserved judgment. The people of God have fallen under the judgment of God. And they deserved it. In fact, the captain of the guard, Nebuchadnezzar, he knows this better than most of the people in Judah. This Babylonian captain of the guard seems to have more biblical wisdom than most of the nobles who had reigned in Jerusalem and most of the people of Judah, including this band of uh military officers who are gathering together to get alive. Because Nebuchadnezzar, the captain of the guard, says, the Lord your God pronounce this disaster against this place. The Lord has brought it about. He's done as he said, because you sinned against the Lord and did not obey his voice. That's exactly right. He's exactly right. And so because Nebuchadnezzar, now he's a polytheist, it doesn't mean he's a true believer, where he believes that Yahweh of Israel is the one true God. In all the earth, but he believes that Yahweh of Israel is a real God who really did bring this about. He would have put him in a pantheon with all the other gods of the world. He believes, though, that Yahweh has done this thing. And so he knows that Jeremiah has been faithful to speak the word of Yahweh. And so he wants to honor Jeremiah as a true prophet of a true God. This is noble. This is good. He says, Come with me to Babylon if you want to. I will look after you well. Jeremiah will be well taken care of if you went to Babylon. Well, Jeremiah doesn't feel called by the Lord to go to Babylon. Ezekiel is in Babylon, Daniel's in Babylon, Jeremiah feels called to a ministry that's there in Judah to the people who have remained behind. And so Nabizaredan says to him, Look, if it's not good for you to come with me to Babylon, don't come. Go anywhere you want to in the whole land. But make sure you go to Gedaliah, the one who's been appointed as governor Check in with him. You know, you you have to do this through the proper proper uh authorities that have been been put in place. This is a another reminder to us, several places in Scripture, another reminder to us that all authorities that are put in place are put in place by God and should be rightly honored as such, even if they are Babylonian conquerors who've just burned Jerusalem, who've just gouged out the eyes of the king, who've just slaughtered the nobles of the city, even they are God-appointed authorities who deserve respect not because of who they are in of themselves, but because of God who is sovereign over all Now, does that mean we obey the authorities in being sinful? No, we don't obey the authorities in being sinful, but we are to obey and honor the authorities, even those of nations that are used by God to bring judgment and discipline on the people of God. The Bible's very clear. This is a repeated theme in Scripture that Authorities are instituted by God. God is sovereign over all the kingdoms of men, and that we are to acknowledge and submit graciously to his sovereign hand. So he's to go and check in with Gedaliah, the governor, and to to either either serve the governor or dwell with him or go somewhere else. Basically, he's setting him free. And he gives him some food, he gives him a present, he lets him go. We don't know exactly how much food he gave him or how much money he gave him, but it seems like it was substantial enough to say here You'll be okay. Here's some food. Here's some money or some sort of gift that you can easily turn into money, and you'll be okay. Go ahead and go where you want to go Meanwhile, in contrast to Nebuchadnezzar and the captain of the guard, and in contrast to Jeremiah, we see these captains of the forces. It's Judah's scattered army. You know, the army was defeated. Many of them fled. Many of them were told in this passage. They went to Moab, they went to the Ammonites, they went to to the Edomites, they have they have scattered outside of the land. But many of them have just sort of hidden out in the country. They were defeated, they were driven from the battlefield. And the Babylonian army doesn't hunt down every single soldier, right? Just they're defeated, they're gone, that's fine. So these are some captains. These are some commanders left. And we're told who they are. Ishmael, Johannan, Saraya. And you've got the sons of Ephi, you've got this whole group of guys, right? And Gedali basically, they gather together to meet to Gedali because he's been appointed as governor. And he says, listen, it's going to be okay. We can serve the king of Babylon. Listen to that. Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you. That may have been deeply offensive to the captains of the army, but this is God's wisdom, this is God's counsel through God's appointed governor Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans, dwell in the land, serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you And as a sign of God's blessing upon them, there is available to them even right now, even in the midst of defeat, there's available to them even right now wine and summer fruits and oil. That's good stuff And we're told that they're able to collect it in in no small amount, in great abundance, in fact. We're told that in verse 12. So God is blessing his people even in the midst of judgment. Listen, there's there's a lot of stuff going on in our culture. I I know about it, you know about it. Our culture is declining in so many ways, and in many ways I think our culture is under the judgment of God. In many ways I think the church We're experiencing what's what some sociologists are calling the great dechurching in America, where more people have left the church in the last twenty to twenty-five years than ever before in the history of our country. And It's a major seismic change in the landscape of America. Judgment, I think, is unfolding. That's the way I read the Science of the Times But that doesn't mean God isn't good. God is good to his people, even in the midst of judgment. Even in the midst of judgment, we can sit here and I can freely teach the Word of God. I can put this on YouTube and Facebook and Spotify, major media platforms. No one's telling me what to say. I'm not hindered from teaching the Word of God. I can sit here with a very delicious cup of coffee. in a very fine banner of truth mug from a very solid publisher of good Christian books. I can sit here surrounded by wonderful Christian books that are being written and published in our lifetime. We are blessed with an abundance of wine and summer fruits for our souls, even in the midst of a declining culture and judgment. We should rejoice in that. What we shouldn't do is give into this paranoia that Johannan and the other leaders start spreading this lie about Ishmael. Ishmael, the son of Nathaniah, he's one of the captains. One of the captains of the forces in the open country. And These other people say he's he's bad. He's gonna he's gonna murder you. You can't trust him. They want Gedaliya the governor to act out of fear. And to act in a bloodthirsty, vengeful way against somebody who hasn't really done him any wrong. That's what we need to avoid. We need to avoid acting out of fear. Acting in hostility and not in faith, acting in self-protection as though we have to somehow be our own God and our own guard, and lashing out at people. And that's not right. And so Gedali is righteous here in not believing these rumors. But We will pick up on this story next time when we come back in a couple of days. So I think there's much wisdom and counsel for us in Jeremiah 40 about how we live in the day and time in which God has put us. Honor and trust the governing authorities, even when we wouldn't agree with their worldview or with everything they say. Take them as God's given authority. Realize how blessed we are, even in the midst of judgment, and gather the wine and the the summer fruits and the oil and enjoy. Be thankful and don't act out of fear, but act in faith and obedience. Let's pray. Father, you are good to us without fail all the time. Even when you're bringing judgment, you always remember your people. We've seen it here in Jeremiah. You always remember your people And we thank you for that. Help us to take full advantage of the blessings we have in Christ and to live by faith and not out of fear. We pray these things, Heavenly Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah chapter 40. Tomorrow we are going to be going back to the book of Revelation and picking up with Revelation chapter 6. Have a blessed day in the Lord.