Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. Hi, I'm Pastor Jason Ben Memel from Forestale Presbyterian Church. On our 941st day, together in God's Word, we come to Jeremiah 51. This is the next to last chapter. In the book of Jeremiah, this is the end of the prophecies of Jeremiah. We have one last oracle, it's a pretty long one, about the utter destruction of Babylon, as we can see from the heading. Some coffee going. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, which is truth. For your love for us, which is steadfast and faithful. For your promises to us, which are yes in Christ. For your Holy Spirit who dwells in us. Father, lead us in the truth. Guide us by your spirit. Sharpen us. Lord God, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Isaiah 51. Thus says the Lord, Behold, I will stir up the spirit of a destroyer against Babylon against the inhabitants of Leb Kamai. And I will send to Babylon winnowers, and they shall winnow her, and they shall empty her land when they come against her from every side on the day of trouble. Let not the archer bend his bow, and let him not stand up in his armor. Spare not her young men, devote to destruction all her army They shall fall down, slain in the land of the Chaldeans, and wounded in her streets. For Israel and Judah have not been forsaken by the thy by their God, the Lord of hosts. But the land of the Chaldeans is full of guilt against the Holy One of Israel. Flee from the midst of Babylon. Let every one save his life. Be not cut off in her punishment, for this is the time of the Lord's vengeance. the repayment he is rendering her. Babylon was a golden cup in the Lord's hand, making all the earth drunken. The nations drank of her wine, therefore the nations went not Mad. Suddenly Babylon has fallen and has been broken. Wail for her. Take balm for her pain. Perhaps she may be healed. We would have healed Babylon, but she was not healed. Forsake her, and let us go each to his own country. For her judgment has reached up to heaven and has been lifted up even to the skies. The Lord has brought about our vindication. Come Let us declare in Zion the work of the Lord our God God. Sharpen the arrows, take up the shields. The Lord has stirred up the spirit of the kings of the meet Because his purpose concerning Babylon is to destroy it. For that is the vengeance of the Lord, the vengeance for his temple. Set a standard against the walls of Babylon, make the watch strong, set up watchmen, prepare the ambushes, for the Lord has planned, has both planned and done what he spoke concerning. the inhabitants of Babylon. O you who dwell by many waters, rich in treasures, your end has come The thread of your life is cut. The Lord of hosts has sworn by himself, surely I will fill you with men as many as locusts, and they shall raise the shout of victory over you. It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding stretched out the heavens When he utters his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he makes the mist rise from the end. ends of the earth, he makes lightning for the rain, and he brings forth the wind from his storehouses. Every man is stupid and without knowledge. Every goldsmith is put to shame by his idols, for his images are false, and there's no breath in them. They are worthless, a work of delusion. At the time of their punishment they shall perish. Not like these is he who is the portion of Jacob. For he is the one who formed all things, and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance. The Lord of hosts is his name. You are my hammer and weapon of war. With you I break nations in pieces. With you I destroy kingdoms. With you I break in pieces the horse and his rider. With you I break in pieces the chariot and the charioteer. With you I break in pieces man and woman With you I break in pieces the old man and the youth, with you I break in pieces the young man and the young woman, with you I break in pieces the shepherd and his flock, with you I break in pieces the farmer and his team, with you I break in pieces governors and commanders, I will repay Babylon and all the inhabitants of the Chaldea before your very eyes for all the evil they have done in Zion, declares the Lord. Behold, I'm against you, O destroying mountain, declares the Lord, which destroys the whole earth, I will stretch out my hand against you you and roll you down from the crags and make you a burnt mountain. No stone shall be taken from you for a Corner, and no stone for a foundation, but you shall be a perpetual waste, declares the Lord. Prepare the nations for war against her. Summon against her the kingdoms. Ararat, Mini, and Ashkenaz. Appoint a marshal against her. Bring up horses like bristling locusts. Prepare the nations for war against her. The kings of the Medes with their governors and deputies, and every land under their dominion, the land trembles and writhes in pain For the Lord's purposes against Babylon stand. To make the land of Babylon a destruction without inhabitant. The warriors of Babylon have ceased. Fighting, they remain in their strongholds, their strength has failed, they have become women. meet another and one messenger to meet another to tell the king of Babylon that his city is taken on every side. The fords have been seized The time when it is trodden, yet a little while, and the time for her harvest will come. Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, has devoured me, he has crushed me He has made me an empty vessel. He has swallowed me like a monster. He has filled his stomach with my delicacies. He has rinsed me out. The violence done to me and to my kinsmen be upon Babylon, let the inhabitant of Zion. Say, My blood be upon the inhabitants of Chaldea, let Jerusalem say. Therefore, thus says the Lord, Behold, I will plead your cause. And take vengeance for you. I will dry up her sea and make her fountain dry, and Babylon shall become a heap of ruins, the haunt of jackals, a horror, and a hissing without inhabitant. They shall roar together like lions, they shall growl like the lions' cubs. When they are inflamed, I will prepare them a feast and make them drunk. that they may be merry. Then sleep a perpetual sleep and not wake, declares the Lord. I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams and male goats, how Babylon has taken, the praise of the whole earth seized How Babylon has become a horror among the nations. The sea has come up on Babylon, she is covered with its tumultuous waves, her cities have become a horror, a land of drought and a desert. a land in which no one dwells, and through which no son of man passes, and I will punish Bel in Babylon And take out of his mouth what he has swallowed. Fallen. Go out of the midst of her, my people. Let everyone save his life from the fierce anger of the Lord. Let not your heart faint And be not fearful of the report heard in the land. When a report comes in one year, and afterward a report in another year, and violence is in the land and ruler is against ruler. Therefore, behold, the days are coming when I will punish the images of Babylon, her whole land shall be put to shame and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her, then the heavens and the earth, and all that is in them shall sing for joy over Babylon. For the destroyers shall come against them out of the north, declares the Lord. Babylon must fall for the slain of Israel, just as for Babylon hath fallen the slain of all the earth. You who have escaped from the sword, go, do not stand still. Remember the Lord from far away and let Jerusalem come into Declares the Lord, When I will execute judgment upon her images, and through all her land the wounded shall groan Though Babylon should mount up to heaven, and though she should fortify her strong height, yet destroyers would come from me against her, declares the Lord. A voice, a cry from Babylon, the noise of great destruction from the land of the Chaldeans, for the Lord is laying Babylon waste. And stilling her mighty voice. Their waves roar like many waters, the noise of their voice is raised, For a destroyer has come upon her, upon Babylon. Her warriors are taken, their bows are broken in pieces. For the Lord is a God of recompense. He will surely repay. I will make drunk her officials and her wise men, her governors, her commanders, her warriors. They shall sleep a perpetual sleep and not wake, declares the king whose name is the Lord of hosts. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the broad wall of Babylon shall be leveled to the ground and her high gates shall be burned with fire, the people labor for nothing, and the nations weary themselves only for fire The word that Jeremiah the prophet commanded, Sariah the son of Nariah, the son of Messiah, when he went with Zedekiah, king of Judah, to Babylon in the fourth year of his reign Saria was the quartermaster. Jeremiah wrote in a book all the disaster that should come upon Babylon, all these words that are written concerning Babylon. And Jeremiah said to Sariah, When you come to Babylon, see that you read all these words and say, O Lord, you have said concerning this place that you will cut it off, so that nothing shall dwell in it, neither man nor beast, and it shall be desolate forever. When you finish reading this book, tie a stone to it, and And cast it into the midst of the Euphrates and say, Thus shall Babylon sink to rise no more because of the disaster that I am bringing upon her And they shall be come exhausted. Thus far are the words of Jeremiah Jeremiah's scroll of prophecy was probably put together around 594 to 593 B. C. See this before the final destruction of Jerusalem, the Book of Lamentations, written after the final destruction of Jerusalem, and chapter 52 that we'll get to tomorrow was put on after the final destruction of Jerusalem. But this far, the end of chapter fifty one, probably written down about six, seven, eight years before the final fall of Jerusalem. Jerusalem at the hands of the Babylonians. Of course, not a final fall because it was for seventy years of exile and then they were brought back. But what we do have a prophecy of here is a final fall, and that is the final fall of Jerusalem. Babylon. There's a few themes. It's a long chapter. Some of this we've already heard in other prophecies about Babylon. So there's a few themes that I want to highlight here. First of all We see the sovereignty of the Lord in that Babylon was probably the longest-standing, most glorious, most splendid city in the world, and God says it's going to be destroyed and then it will never be rebuilt. It takes a while. It is conquered. Not that long after this, it's conquered in the days of Daniel. We know when when Belshazzar was having that feast, it was conquered that night by the Medes and the Persians. The Medes and the Persians do keep it running as a key cities are still around. And so that shows that the Lord accomplishes His word and He's sovereign over history. Another thing we see here is the way that God's sovereignty works out upon the affairs of nations. God used Babylon as his instrument to discipline and judge the nations. And yet. That fact did not leave Babylon blameless for her sinful choices. You see, Babylon chose to do sinfully, wicked, oppressive, violent, evil things. And even though God gave her this power and gave her this uh permission to execute judgment on the nations, she's still morally liable for the things that she chose to do that were immoral. This helps us to understand our sin and our responsibility. Is God sovereign over our sin? Yes. That gives us great comfort because our sin is never outside of God's sovereignty. God never looks at our sin and says, Wow, I never thought you would do that. That's not in my plan. I don't know what I'm going to do now. Guess you're on your own. Like we don't ever have to get to that point of worrying that somehow we've sinned our way out of the sovereign will of God, because it's all part of God's sovereign plan, and yet that doesn't excuse our personal responsibility. Responsibility for our sin, God's absolute divine sovereignty and full human responsibility are both true God is in control of everything, and we are responsible for our own actions. Those are both true. If you deny one or the other, you're left with a mess. Either God is the author of evil and we're not responsible for our actions and we're just puppets and there's no point to any of it, or God's not in control and the world is spiraling out of control and there's no point So you cannot deny either one of those things are both strong biblical truths, and we see them both laid out here in Jeremiah. He gave them the power, he gave them the authority, he gave them the freedom to do these things, but now he's going to judge them because the things that they chose to do with the power and the freedom that God Another thing that we see is what God's justice is based on. God's justice is a retributive justice. It is retribution-based. It is vengeance-based. Now, this might leave us unsettled because we think on a human level that when people start talking about retribution and vengeance, that usually leads to like an overkill and like a bloodbath and like civil wars and like vigilantes and all sorts of extreme stuff, but God is sovereign and holy and just. God is the standard of justice and holy justice. Retribution, the idea that you did wrong and so now wrong will be done to you, or rather you inflicted harm wrongly, so now justly harm will be inflicted upon you The lexalionis of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth is a biblical standard of justice. Now, in people's hands, it usually ends up spiraling out of control, but in God's hands, when God is the final and ultimate judge, he does base his justice on retribution, on vengeance. Romans twelve tells us we don't need to take Revenge, because vengeance is mine, says the Lord. And the revelation that we're studying, it's the cry of the martyrs, it's the cry of the persecuted church that leads to the judgment of God upon the nation They have spilled the blood of your saints. Now give them their due. That's going to become even more clear as we continue in Revelation. And the final thing is that only for God's people, only for those who know the Lord, is there a promise of eternal rest. an eternal blessing. For everyone else, judgment awaits. Because you're either one of God's people protected by him, promised by him, in which case he will discipline you, he will put you through trials, but in the end, bring you into final rest and restore you. He will bring restoration. Restoration is the final word for God's people in this chapter. But destruction is the final word for Babylon. And that extends out to the whole world. Those who belong to God by grace through faith have a final word of restoration and peace Peace those who are enemies of God through their sin and selfishness have a final word of destruction. Ultimately, how God's going to bring this about is through the Lord Jesus Christ, King of kings and Lord of Lords who will come again and will bring the final judgment, not just upon this particular Babylon, but upon all the Babylon that is the world In all of its rebellion against God. So let's hold on to the hope of that day and trust the Lord to bring it about according to his will. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you are the sovereign Lord over human history and over your church. You bless us and keep us and promise us restoration and peace in the end. We Praise you for that. Help us to live by faith and in patient hope. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's Jeremiah 51. Tomorrow we're going to finish up this book, this wonderful prophet, with Jeremiah 52. Hope you can join me. me for that and I do hope as always that you have a blessed day in the Lord.