Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And on our 912th day in the Word of God, we come to Jeremiah 32. Let's pray. Father in heaven, your word is good, true, right, holy, and helpful. It equips us to know you, love you, serve you, follow you. Write your word in our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah 32 The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord in the tenth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar. At that time, the army of the king of Babylon was besieging Jerusalem, and Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the court of the guard. that was in the palace of the king of Judah. For Zedekiah king of Judah had imprisoned him, saying, Why do you prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord, Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall capture it Zedekiah, king of Judah, shall not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but shall surely be given into the hand of the king of Babylon and shall speak with him face to face. and see him eye to eye. And he shall take Zedekiah to Babylon, and there he shall remain until I visit him, declares the Lord. Though you fight against the Chaldeans, you shall not succeed Jeremiah said, The word of the Lord came to me. Behold, Hanamel, the son of Shalem, your uncle, will come to you and say, Buy my field that is in Anathoth, for the right of redemption by purchase is yours. Then Hanamel my cousin came to me in the court of the guard In accordance with the word of the Lord and said to me, Buy my field that is at Amitoth in the land of Benjamin, for the right of possession and redemption is yours. Buy it for yourself. Then I knew that this was the word of the Lord. And I bought the field at Anathoth from Hanamel my cousin, and weighed out the money to him 17 shekels of silver. I signed the deed, sealed it, got witnesses, and weighed the money on scales, then I took the sealed deed of purchase containing the terms and conditions and and the open copy, and I gave the deed of purchase to Barak, the son of Nerea son of Mas Masaiah, in the presence of Hanamel, my cousin, in the presence of the witnesses who signed the deed of purchase, and in the presence of all the Judeans who were sitting in the court of the guard, I charge Barak in their presence, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, take these deeds, both this sealed deed of purchase and this open deed and put them in an earth and ware vessel, that they may last for a long time. For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Houses and fields and vineyards shall again be bought in this land. After I had given the deed of purchase to Barak the son of Nerea, I prayed to the Lord, saying, Ah, Lord God It is you who have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm. Nothing is too hard for you You show steadfast love to thousands, but you repay the guilt of fathers to their children after them. O great and mighty God, whose name is the Lord of hosts great in counsel and mighty indeed, whose eyes are open to all the ways of the children of man, rewarding each one according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his deeds. You have shown signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, and to this day in Israel and among all mankind, and you have made a name for yourself, as at this day You brought your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs and wonders with a strong hand and outstretched arm and with great terror And you gave them this land, which you swore to their fathers to give them, a land flowing with milk and honey. And they entered and took possession of it. But they did not obey your voice. Or walk in your law. They did nothing of all you commanded them to do Therefore you have made all this disaster come upon them. Behold, the siege mounds have come up to the city to take it And because of sword and famine and pestilence, the city is given into the hands of the Chaldeans who are fighting against it. What you spoke has come to pass, and behold, you see it. Yet you, O Lord God, have said to me, Buy the field for money and get witnesses, though the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is anything too hard for me? Therefore, thus says the Lord, Behold, I am giving this city into the hands of the Chaldeans, and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon And he shall capture it. The Chaldeans who are fighting against the city shall come and set the city on fire and burn it. with the houses on whose roofs offerings have been made to Baal, and drink offerings have been poured out to other gods to provoke me to anger. For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have done nothing but evil in my sight from their youth. The children of Israel have done nothing but provoke me to anger by the work of their hands, declares the Lord. This city has aroused my anger and wrath from the day it was built to this day so that I will remove it from my sight, because of all the evil of the children of Israel and the children of Judah that they did to provoke me to anger. Their kings and their officials, their priests and their prophets, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, they have turned to me their back and not their face. And though I have taught them persistently, they have not listened to receive instruction. They set up their abominations in the house that is called by my name to defile it. They built the high places of Baal in the valley of the sun of Hinnam, to offer up their sons and daughters to Molech, though I did not command them, nor did it enter into my mind. that they should do this abomination to cause Judah to sin. Now therefore, thus says the Lord the God of Israel, concerning this city of which you say It is given into the hand of the king of Babylon by sword, by famine, and by pestilence. Behold, I will gather them from all the countries to which I drove them in my anger, and my wrath, and in great indignation I will bring them back to this place, and I will make them dwell in safety, and they shall be my people, and I will be their God And I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever, for their own good and the good of their children after them. I will make with them an everlasting covenant that I will not turn away from doing good to them, and I will put the fear of me in their hearts, that they may not turn from me. I will rejoice in doing them good, and I will plant them in this land in faithfulness, with all my heart, with all my soul For thus says the Lord, just as I have brought all this great disaster upon this people, so I will bring upon them all the good that I promised them. Fields shall be bought in this land, of which you are saying it is a desolation without man or beast. It is given into the hand of the Chaldeans. Fields shall be bought for money. and deeds shall be signed and sealed and witnessed in the land of Benjamin, in the places about Jerusalem And in the cities of Judah, in the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the Shephilah, and in the cities of the Negev, for I will restore their fortunes, declares the Lord Well, that's Jeremiah 32. And again, the whole theme of this particular section of Jeremiah, from chapters 30 to 33. is the more positive good news that God is giving even in the midst of the words of judgment that are coming. God does indeed discipline his people. Sin has consequences. Sin leads to sorrow. You reap what you sow. You offer offerings to Baal and to the God of heaven, the gods of the stars of the heavenly hosts, on the roof of your home, and that home might be taken away from you in judgment because you have not honored the Lord with that home. And there's all sorts of application to us for that. Um sinning wantonly, habitually. has consequences that are disastrous. All that's true still. But there's good news, because God is good and gracious to his people, even in the midst of judgment. So the king here complains. He has Jeremiah imprisoned because Jeremiah is speaking against the city. And the response to that is not Jeremiah getting a word from the Lord saying, I really mean it. This is really going to happen. It's coming. Because he's already said that over and over again. Instead of something very unusual, the word of the Lord comes to Jeremiah and instructs him, telling him that a relative of his is going to come. His cousin, right, the son of his uncle, is going to come to you and say, buy my field. So his cousin's going to come to him and tell him to buy his uncle's field. And he should buy it. So God tells him exactly who's going to come and whose field he's going to tell him to buy, and exactly that happens. Hanamel comes, uh he comes and says, by the field of your uncle, you have the right of possession. So he knows. This is God's word. I have to do it. I'm going to buy it. But he's confused. He's really confused. Seventeen shekels of silver is not an insignificant amount of money. But it's also it seems to be about, you know, this apparent contradiction. I is Jeremiah concerned that he's going to appear to be a hypocrite because he's He's prophesying doom and judgment and yet he's buying fields? Is he just trying to drive down real estate prices so he can expand his land holdings? This is looking not great. So Jeremiah has questions about this. And God tells him. God tells him two things in answer to it. You know, he prays this great prayer about how God is powerful and nothing's too hard for him. But the bottom line is he wants to know, you've given me these strong, powerful words to say about siege mounds and about sword and famine and pestilence and judgment, and then you're telling me to go out and buy fields and get witnesses. What is the deal? And God says, yes, I'm going to give this city into the hands of the Babylonians. But even when I give the city into the hands of Babylonians, There still will be land bought and sold in Judah. Yes, you're being sent into exile, but not everybody's going to be sent to exile, and those who are sent will return. The land's not permanently being taken away from you. So by. This is a little bit of perspective. Because what what ends up happening is Babylon comes and Nebuchadnezzar takes Jerusalem and he carries everybody off and he he he does reduce Jerusalem to rubble and the temple is completely reduced to rubble. But then he leaves the governor in charge, and many of the leading officials are left The ones that are left, the ones that hadn't been taken off already, the ones who took their place, right, this second tier guy leveled people. They're they're allowed to stay, they're just given a a new governor that's appointed instead of a king, they can't have a king anymore But they can have a Babylonian governor. So life does continue in the countryside of Judah and Benjamin and in the other cities of Judah and Benjamin. including where this field is being bought. So that's part of the answer is life is going to continue. But then he gives a recapitulation of the new covenant promise. That's the other part of the answer he gives. And this is about the ingathering. This is language from chapter 31 that's carried over and brought back again in chapter 32. I'm going to gather all these people in. I'm going to make them dwell in safety. And here is the new covenant promise again. They shall be my people. I will be their God. I will give them one heart and one way. that they may fear me forever for their own good, and the good of their children after them. I will make with them an everlasting covenant that I will not turn away from doing good to them, and I will put the fear of me in their hearts That they might not turn from me. God's going to take his law, write it on our hearts We're going to be his people. He's going to be our God. He's going to give us one heart in one way. A new heart. We will be born again, as Jesus says, born by the Spirit. And whose good is it for? It's for our good and for the good of the children after us. God remains a covenantal, generational, blessing God. It's not only for our good, but it's for the good of our children after us. Now, is this an absolute promise that every child of a believer will themselves be saved? No. It is to say that God's covenantal commitment is to save his own elect and to bless their children. Part of the blessing is to grow up in a household where you hear the gospel. To grow up in the church where you hear the gospel. And you can come at an early age to trust in Jesus. And Mostly, this is how most people come to know the Lord. You know, most people who are adult believers in America today Or so because they were brought up in Christian homes in the church. God is a covenant-keeping, generationally faithful God He makes covenant promises for our good and for the good of our children after us. We're not to presume upon that and neglect bringing up our children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Nor are our children without responsibility. God remains sovereign in election and in salvation But he also, by his sovereign grace, issues this promise to give us one heart and one way that we may fear him forever for our own good. and for the good of our children after us. This is why we practice covenant child baptism. We baptize the children of believers and putting the name of God on them. Because they are part of the people of God being brought up to know the Lord. That's why we do it, part of why we do it. So God rejoices in doing good for us. That's a profound thought. Verse 41 I will rejoice in doing them good. Does God discipline us? Yes. Does he take us out behind the woodshed and give us an old-fashioned whooping sometimes because we need it? Yes. But that doesn't that's not what he rejoices in. He rejoices in doing us good. That's the good God we serve. Let's give him thanks. Father, thank you that you love us. Thank you that you redeem us. Thank you that we are yours by grace. Help us to love you, to follow you, to bring up our children, to know you, bless our children with the knowledge of you. Work for their good. We pray these things, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Jeremiah 32. I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.