Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Vammel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day eight ninety-nine of our three-year journey through And we come now to Jeremiah 23, a wonderful messianic chapter in this powerful book of the prophet Jeremiah. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for every part of your word. Today as we come to Jeremiah 23, we ask that you would prepare us to hear it, to understand it. Give us the grace to receive it, believe in Christ through it, and live more and more for his glory in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Jeremiah 23. Woe to the shepherds who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture, declares says the Lord. Therefore, thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, concerning the shepherds who care for my people, you have scattered my flock, and have driven them away, and you have not attended to them. Behold, I will attend to their fold, and they shall be fruitful and multiply. I will set shepherds over them who will care for them, and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be missing, declares. The Lord. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous brand. And he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. In his days, Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely, and this is the name by which he will be called the Lord is our righteousness. Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when they shall no longer say, As the Lord lives, who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt, but as the Lord lives, who brought up and Concerning the prophets, my heart is broken within me, all my bones shake, I am like a drunken man, like a man overcome by wine because of the Lord and because of his holy words for the land is full of adulterers, because of the curse the land mourns, and the pastures of the wilderness are dried up, their course is evil, and their might is not right. Both prophet and priest Therefore, I think that's a very good idea. They shall be driven and fall, for I will bring disaster upon them in the year of their punishment, declares the Lord. In the prophets of Samaria I saw an unsavory thing. They prophesied by Baal and led my people Israel astray. But in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen a horrible thing. They commit adultery and walk in lies. They strengthen the hand Concerning the prophets, behold I will feed them with bitter food, and give them poisoned water to drink. For from the prophets of Jerusalem ungodliness has gone out into all the land. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you, filling you with vein of They speak visions of their own minds, not of the mouth of the Lord. They say continually to those who despise the word of the Lord, It shall be well. For who among them has stood in the counsel of the Lord to see and hear the people who are not sure. His word, or who has paid attention to his word and listened, behold the storm of the Lord Wrath has gone forth, a whirling tempest, it will burst upon the head of the wicked. The anger of the Lord will not turn back. They ran. I did not speak to them, yet they prophesied. But if they had stood in my counsel, then they would have proclaimed my word. Am I a God at hand to declares the Lord, and not a God far away? Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I can I cannot see him, declares the Lord. Do I not fill heaven and earth? declares the Lord. I have heard what the prophets have said said, who prophesied lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed. How long shall there be lies in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies? lies, and who prophesy the deceit of their own heart, who think to make my people forget my name by their dreams, that they tell one another, even as their fathers forgot my name for Baal. Let the prophet who has a dream tell the dream. But let him who has my word speak my word faithfully. What has straw in common with wheat? declares declares the Lord. Is not my word like a fire, declares the Lord, and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces? Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets, declares the Lord Behold I am against the prophets, declares the Lord, who use their tongues and declare declares the Lord. Behold, I am against those Who prophesy lying dreams, declares the Lord, and who tell them, and lead my people astray by their lies and their recklessness. When I did not send them or charge them, so they do not profit this people at all, declares the Lord. When one of this people Or a prophet or a priest asks you, What is the burden of the Lord? You shall say to them, You are the burden. And I will cast you off, declares the Lord. And as for the prophet, priest, or one of the people who says, the burden of the Lord, I will punish that man. And his household. Thus shall you say, every one to his neighbor and every one to his brother, what has the Lord answered? Or what has the Lord spoken? But the burden of the Lord You shall not mention any more. For the burden is every man's own word, and you pervert the words of the living God, the Lord of hosts, our God. Thus you shall say to the prophet, What has the Lord answered you? Or what has the Lord spoken? But if you say, the burden of the Lord Thus says the Lord. Because you have said these words, the burden of the Lord, when I sent you saying, You shall not say the burden of the Lord, therefore, behold, I shall lift you up and cast you away from my presence. You And the city that I gave to you and your fathers, and I will bring upon you everlasting reproach and perpetual shame, which shall not be For God. Well, that's Jeremiah 23, which has a beautiful picture of Christ a powerful picture of the Word of God, and some very strong words of warning against those who would presume to speak in the name of the Lord, but who speak their own words in the name of the Lord. Begins with a pronunciation of woe. Woe to the shepherds. What are these she Doing wrong. They're destroying, they're scattering. Instead of gathering, instead of feeding Why are they doing that? Because they're not intent on being faithful to God and turning the hearts of the people back to God. But they're intent on doing their own thing. Sometimes they just tell the people what they want to hear. Sometimes they encourage wickedness. Sometimes they're personally engaged in wicked behavior which contradicts their public ministry. Sometimes they make up Something that the Lord had not told them. destroy and scatter the sheep of God's pasture because the sheep are only unified, are only fed, are only rightly led When they are following the Word of God, being rightly and faithfully communicated by faithful How does this happen today? Well, it happens today when pastors, Bible teachers, so-called prophets They either speak their own words and try to pass them off as the Word of God. They're not grounding everything they say in Scripture carefully Or they're self-seeking in their motivation. They're wanting more money for themselves or more fame for themselves themselves or more attention for themselves, or they're engaged in personal immorality and they're covering up a hypocritical life. Or they know what the word of the Lord says, but they don't want to say it because they don't want to offend the people to whom they're called to speak. Any of these things make for unfaithful shepherds. And God says, I'm going to get rid of all these sh shepherds. I'm gonna drive them out. And I'm gonna give my people shepherds who will care for them. We're going to take care of them, who are going to feed them with the word of God, who are going to lead them in paths of righteousness for my name's sake, who are going to faithfully minister to them, and the chief shepherd. The king who will reign wisely, righteously, justly, shall be the righteous branch. raised up for David. This righteous branch was already referred to earlier in the prophet Isaiah. In our Sunday morning sermon series through Isaiah, we touched on the righteous branch a couple of different times in the book of Isaiah. He will be spoken of again in the prophet Zechariah. So three Old Testament prophets, Isaiah, especially chapter 11 Jeremiah here chapter 23 and Zechariah especially chapter 3, you have three witnesses who all call Christ the Messiah. Messiah, the righteous branch. And the idea is that there was a tree that grew up from the root of Jesse. Jesse, David, the Davidic tree It's going to be cut down, done away with, sent into exile, but from the root, from that which is actually deeper down, Older, preceding. From the root, there will come forth a shoot, a branch, a righteous branch A good and godly king. And in his days, real salvation will come, real security will come. And this is the name by which he will be called. The Lord Yahweh is our righteousness. Jesus Is our salvation and our security because in Christ Jesus the righteousness of God Becomes our righteousness. The Lord becomes our righteousness in the person of Jesus because he combines God and man the Lord and God's people together in his own perfect person, sinless, righteous, just, always being faithful and he Is our righteousness. This is the gospel. The gospel is that in Jesus Christ, God has given us his very own righteousness in a person To be received by faith, applied to us by the Holy Spirit, as we trust in Jesus and not in ourselves. That's the good news of the righteous branch Who brings justice. Those days are coming. Those days are coming. But in the meantime, God is broken Brokenhearted because his prophets have been so unfaithful. He's brokenhearted because Adultery, idolatry, wickedness, both prophet and priest are ungodly, even in my house I have found their evil. People committing adultery, people committing idolatry, people committing witchcraft, people committing abominable sacrifices, even in the house of the Lord. Therefore God's going to bring disaster. He said it was bad enough earlier. See, from Jeremiah's day you look back, 120, 130. years or so, and you look back at the prophets of Samaria, the northern kingdom, they were bad because they prophesied by Baal and they led Israel astray from worshiping the Lord. to worshiping Baal. But the prophets of Jerusalem are horrible. Prophets of Samaria unsavory, right? Untasty, disgusting. But the prophets of Jerusalem, horrible. Why? Because they actually speak in the name of the Lord. They actually speak in the name of Yahweh. And yet in the name of Yahweh they commit adultery and walk in lies. They do evil in the name of the Lord. That's worse than idolatry. So he says they become like Sodom to me in Lake Gomorrah He's going to feed them with bitter food. He's going to give them poisoned water to drink. Don't listen to these words. Don't listen to people who say, It shall be well with you. No disaster will come upon you because they have not been faithful to the Word of God. They haven't heard the Word of God. They don't know that God is going to bring wrath, and that is not going to change. It doesn't matter if There's a hundred prophets who come out and say, I am a prophet. It will be well with you in the name of the Lord. No disaster will come upon you in the name of the Lord. It doesn't matter. They're lying. All of them are lying Only the word of God is going to be accomplished. God's word will be accomplished. These prophets didn't get sent by the Lord. The Lord sees everything. The Lord knows everything. The Lord understands what they're doing and how wrong it is. And then I love this. This image, verse twenty-nine, is not my word like fire, declares the Lord, and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces. Therefore I'm a against the prophets. They're speaking chaff. What has straw in common with wheat? Their words are straw. There's no nutritive value, there's no substance, there's nothing that's going to give Life to the people. You can't eat straw and live. God's word is wheat. The finest of wheat, honey from the rock, living water. It's real nourishment. Listen, we need to hear the word of God. We might not like what it says all the time. It might tell us that we're sinful and that we need to repent. It might call out our idolatry. It might expose our hypocrisy, but we need to hear it. Because it's life and power. And the words of men are just nothing. They're just nothing. We don't need them. The promises of politicians the sales pitches on the commercials. Whatever the American dream and and and the promises of a better future, if only you have the right technology or you invest in the right stock or you elect the right politician These are words of men. They are wrong. We need the word of God. We need the word of God. And God says. That all of these prophets, they have this way of putting forward their word by saying, it's a burden The burden of the Lord. Kind of means oracle, but according to the context, what it is is like the Lord is carrying this thing and he's obligated to carry it out. We're going to put this burden on the Lord. And God says, you're the burden. And I'm going to cast you off. You think you can put a burden on me? This is sort of an answer to the name it claim it school that's still so popular in the world today. I speak my word of faith, I name it and claim it, and the Lord has to do it. He says, you know, you're the burden, and I'm going to cast you off. Don't say anymore the burden of the Lord, the burden of the Lord. Don't try to bind God Instead say what has the Lord spoken, what has the Lord answered? We need the word of God, not the presumption Claimed promises that men speak by mere empty words. Only the Word of God is powerful. Only the Word of God gives light Only the Word of God breaks and heals, leads, corrects, and the Word of God alone Ultimately points us to Jesus, who is the Word of God incarnate, the righteous King, and the righteousness that we need. So my plea you We got the same thing in yesterday's sermon. If you were in church, hear the word of God, heed the word of God, meditate on the word of God. It's what we need. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, thank you for your precious word. Who are we? Weak, sinful Unfaithful, ignorant, blind, who are we that you would speak to us so clearly? What has the Lord answered? You've spoken the words of life to us. Thank you. Help us to hear them and to heed them and to trust in Jesus, the Word of God made flesh, our righteousness, and our good and gracious King It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. That's Jeremiah 23. Tomorrow we're going to move on to Jeremiah 24, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.