Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and it's our eight hundred and ninety-first day together in the Word of God, and we come to Jeremiah chapter 18. Another well-known section of Jeremiah as he deals with the potter and the clay, a very common biblical image for God's work among people, the potter with the clay. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you again for another day that we can spend together in your word. Your word is rich. It's a treasure to us, a blessing. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts. That you would help us to see Jesus more clearly, see the work of your Holy Spirit in our lives more clearly, and to joyfully trust and follow you. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Alright, Jeremiah chapter 18. The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord. Arise, and go down to the potter's house, and there I will let you hear my words. So I went down to the potter's house, and there he was working at his wheel. And the vessel he was making of clay was spoiled in the potter's hand, and he reworked it into another vessel, as it seemed good to the potter to do. Then the word of the Lord came to me, O house of Israel, can I not do with you as this potter has done, declares the Lord. Behold, like the clay in the potter's hand, so are you in my hand, O house of Israel. If at any time I declare concerning a nation or a kingdom that I will pluck up and break down and destroy it And if that nation, concerning which I have spoken, turns from its evil, I will relent of the disaster I intended to do to it. And if at any time I declare concerning a nation or a kingdom that I will build and plant it, and if it does evil in my sight, not listening to my voice, then I will relent of the good that I had intended to do to it Now therefore, say to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Thus says the Lord, behold, I am shaping disaster against you. and devising a plan against you, return every one from his evil way, and amend your ways and your deeds. But they say, this that is in vain. We will follow our own plans, and we will every one act according to the stubbornness of his evil heart. Therefore, thus says the Lord. Ask among the nations. Who has heard the like of this? The Virgin Israel has done a very horrible thing. Does the snow of Lebanon leave the crags of Syrion? Do the mountain waters run dry, the cold flowing streams? But my people have forgotten me They make offerings to false gods. They made them stumble in their ways, in the ancient roads, and to walk into side roads, not the highway. making their land a horror, a thing to be hissed at forever. Every one who passes by it is horrified and shakes his head Like the east wind, I will scatter them before the enemy. I will show them my back, not my face, in the day of their calamity. Then they said, Come. Let us make plots against Jeremiah, for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophet. Come, let us strike him with the tongue, and let us not pay attention to any of his words. Hear me, O Lord, and listen to the voice of my adversaries. Should good be repaid with evil? Yet they have dug a pit for my life. Remember how I stood before you to speak good for them to turn away your wrath from them. Therefore deliver up their children to famine, and give them over to the power of the sword. Let their wives become childless and widowed May their men meet death by pestilence, their youths be struck down by the sword in battle. May a cry be heard from their houses when you bring the plunderer silently upon them For they have dug a pit to take me, and laid snares for my feet. Yet you, O Lord, know, all their plotting to kill me, forgive not their iniquity nor blot out their sin from your sight. Let them be overthrown before you. Deal with them in the time of your anger. Jeremiah eighteen So we have this picture of Jeremiah going to the potter's house to see the potter working with the clay. And the the potter is making one thing out of the clay, and then the clay is spoiled in his hand. It it it crumbles, it it gives way, it w it doesn't cooperate with the shaping that the potter had in mind And so he reworks it back into a lump and works it into something else. Now, the Lord is saying that he is sovereign. He's the ruler, he's the potter over the clay of people from all nations. One of the misunderstandings in the ancient world was that different gods were sort of regional deities over different parts of the world. So that Babylon would have their gods And Syria would have their gods, and Egypt would have their gods, and Edom would have their gods, and Yahweh was the god of Judah But not of all nations. Well, here the Lord is making it clear that He's the sovereign Lord over all nations. Anytime I declare concerning a nation or a kingdom, So any nation or any kingdom. And that is shown consistently throughout the prophets, as the Lord speaks oracles for and against all the nations that are in that area, because he's sovereign over them all. But what he said is just because I say something good about you and make a promise to you doesn't necessarily mean that it's an unchanging thing if you Get complacent if you sin, if you fall away, if you reject me, well, then I can I can change my mind, and I can make something different out of you. Or if I've decreed destruction for you. But you repent. The most famous example of this in the Bible is from Jonah. Right? The prophet Jonah was being sent to Nineveh, and he didn't want to go to Nineveh. He was an Israelite He hated Nineveh. Those were the Assyrians. They were the ones that were threatening everybody, including God's people. So John had on a ship heading exactly in the opposite direction. far away to Tarshish, which is present-day Spain, the other side of the Mediterranean Sea, trying to get as far away as he could. But the Lord brings him to Nineveh. And his word for Nineveh is, yet forty days, Nineveh will be overthrown. But he knows even going there that God's purpose and having him speak that is so that Nineveh will repent and God will have mercy on Nineveh. So Nineveh isn't overthrown in 40 days. God is threatening the destruction to prompt the people to repentance. In other words, God is sovereign. He can do what he wants to do with people who belong to him. All people in the world belong to God. Oh, that's very un-American. We we're our own person. I'm my own person. Well, if you want to be your own person, then you have You have the voice of these who stand in opposition to Jeremiah in verse 12. We will follow our own plans. We will act each one according to the stubbornness of his own evil heart. Because Jeremiah says, return everyone from his evil way and amend your ways and deeds. And that's the response they have. No. We are our own people. We're going to do our own thing. Yeah, that sounds very American. If you read the Bible, it's not hard to figure out that the way that sounds American, self-determination, right, is not biblical. It's not God-honoring. So God is sovereign. He can do what he wants to do. He can threaten disaster, but then relent of that disaster if there's repentance. He can promise blessing, but then change his mind and bring disaster if there is sin. He can do what he wants to do. Now some people have interpreted this passage and have said, well, the Lord always responds to what people do. So if people have been promised disaster but they repent, he always relents of the disaster and brings them blessing instead. No, that's not true, because that wouldn't make the Lord the sovereign one. And there are cases in the Bible where bad things happen to God's people who are not openly sinful, but God is in some other way disciplining them or testing them or trying them like Job. It's the biggest example of that that's obvious from scripture. But there's others like almost all the apostles. So it it's not it's not a hundred percent thing to say, oh well this means I can manipulate God by just waiting until he threatens just destruction and then I can Repent. Some people have this idea in their minds that they know that Christianity is true, but they want to have fun while they're young, and when they get older, they'll repent and call upon the Lord. You might not be able to, because repentance is a gift that's given to you by God Turning to the Lord is not something you are actually capable of in and of yourself. So if you're feeling the Spirit convicting you of the truth, turn now. Call upon the Lord now, because He's the sovereign one and He might not give you an opportunity later. That's one sobering lesson from this. If you know what is right and you hear the word of the Lord calling you, do what you know is right Don't forsake the Lord. That's where we get into this poetic section here beginning in verse 13 is here these, the people of God have forsaken. They've forsaken the Lord. They've gone aside into side roads, not the highway of holiness. And so they're going to suffer calamity Now the response of the people is not to thank Jeremiah for being a faithful prophet, to thank Jeremiah for telling them what they didn't want to hear, but what they know is really good for them. No, they say let's just plot against him. Let's get rid of him. And so Jeremiah prays that God would vindicate him. A couple of lessons here. First of all, acknowledge that the Lord is sovereign over all nations, over all people. And if he's been gracious to you, be thankful and respond to his grace with worship and obedience. And If he calls you to speak his word, speak his truth, speak it plain and clear and open. And if you think that's going to win you friends, it might win you enemies. But stand strong, call out to the Lord, and he will see you through. But if you're hearing the word of the Lord and you're resistant, You're still following your own wicked heart. You're still going after the ways of the world. You're still wanting to sort of put off till later this whole God thing. Don't do that. Don't do that. The sovereign lord is not to be played with or put on a timer like he's some sort of butler who can come at your bidding. You come at his bidding. He doesn't come at yours. We need a stronger sense of the holiness of God, we need a stronger sense of the of the grace of God and a response to that that says, Lord, if you're going to be gracious to me at all, that's something I don't deserve and that I desperately need, so let me run for it. Without hesitation, without delay, without without withdrawing, holding back Let's pray. Father in heaven, you're good. You're not only sovereign and in control, and the one who alone has the right to judge, but you're good. And we thank you for that, because we need your goodness. We are totally dependent upon your sovereign mercy. So have mercy on us. Call us to trust you, follow you, speak for you, stand for you, be faithful to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That's Jeremiah 18. Tomorrow, John 19, as we continue with the trial of Jesus and heading toward the cross. Jesus on the cross tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.