Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you for our 888th day in the Word of God 888. Jeremiah 16 is before us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word, for the truth of your word, for the power of your word, by your Holy Spirit working in our hearts and lives. We thank you. for the way that you've been teaching us over these past several months, this past two and a half years, Lord. Thank you for the faithfulness. that you've shown us. Thank you for the truth that we get to study together. We pray that you would bless us today as we dig into Jeremiah sixteen. May we be both convicted and comforted by the hard words and by the gospel words that we find. find here in this chapter. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, we are here in Jeremiah 16. The word of the Lord came to me. You shall not take a wife, nor shall you have sons or daughters in this place. For thus says the Lord, concerning the sons and daughters who are born in this place, and concerning the mothers who bore them, and the fathers who fathered them in this land, they shall die of deadly diseases. They shall not be lamented, nor shall they be buried. They shall be as dung on the surface of the ground. They shall perish by the sword and by famine. And their dead bodies shall be food for the birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth. For thus says the Lord, do not enter the house of mourning Or go to lament or grieve for them, for I have taken away my peace from this people, my steadfast love and mercy, declares the Lord. Both great and small shall die in this land. They shall not be buried, and no one shall lament for them, or cut himself, or make himself bald for them. No one shall break bread for the mourner, to comfort him for the dead, nor shall any one give him the cup of consolation to drink for his father or his mother. You shall not go into the house of feast feasting to sit with them to eat and drink. For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, behold, I will silence this place. Before your eyes and in your days, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride. And when you tell this people all these words, and they say to you, why has the Lord pronounced all this great evil against us? What is our iniquity? What is the sin that we have committed against the Lord our God? Then you shall say to them, Because your fathers have forsaken me, declares the Lord, and have gone after other gods, and have served and worshipped them, and have forsaken me and have not kept my law, and because you have done worse than your fathers, for behold every one of you follows his stubborn evil will, refusing to listen to me, therefore I will hurl you out of this land, into a land That neither you nor your fathers have known, and there you shall serve other gods day and night, for I will show you no favor. Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when it shall no longer be said, As the Lord lives, who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt, but as the Lord lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the north country, and out of all the countries where he had driven them For I will bring them back to their own land that I gave to their fathers. Behold I am sending for many fishers, declares the Lord, and they shall catch are on all their ways. They are not hidden from me, nor is their iniquity concealed from my eyes. But first I will doubly repay their iniquity and their sin, because they have polluted my land. With the carcasses of their detestable idols, and have filled my inheritance with their abominations. O Lord, my strength, and my stronghold, my refuge in the day of trouble, to you shall the nations come. from the ends of the earth and say, Our fathers have inherited nothing but lies, worthless things, in which there is no profit. Can a man make for himself gods? Such are not gods Therefore, behold, I will make them know this once. I will make them know my power and my might, and they shall know that my name is is the Lord. That's Jeremiah 16. So we have a chapter that is half bad news and then half good news About judgment and death that is very severe and very hard, but then a restoration that is very undeserved and very great. Gracious, and then really a statement of the purpose of it all at the end of it. So, first up, Jeremiah is told by the Lord that because this judgment is coming on the land Because this can be a time of violence and exile. He is not to take a wife, he is not to have any sons or daughters. Now this is a sign. This is a sign to Jerusalem and Judah of the certainty of the coming judgment of the The Lord, that the Lord is not going to relent, not going to change his mind, and one sign of that is Jeremiah is not going to get married because he's not going to have a family. But it's a mercy to Jeremiah that he is be spared the grief of watching his family get destroyed by the coming of the Babylonians. But then he says that when other people lose their loved ones, and they don't even get buried, and their dead bodies are food for the birds. And the beasts, you're not even to enter into mourning or lament or grieve for them. And then this very sobering verse five of Jeremiah sixteen is one of the scariest verses in the Bible because it Has this idea, I have taken away my peace from my people, my steadfast love and mercy, declares the Lord. God in judgment Because of the stubborn unbelief, the persistent idolatry of his covenant people who don't really belong to him by faith, they're just his by name only. He's going to take away the peace, the steadfast love, the chesed, and the mercy that he has extended to them for generation upon generation. Now, does this mean that someone can lose their salvation? No. Note what I said about these people. These people are part of the covenant people of God. They are named by the name of Yahweh. That becomes very clear at the end of this chapter because that's the purpose for why God is doing all of these things. These are people, in other words, to put it in Christian language, these are people who are not saved, but they go to church and think they're saved. They're not saved, but in a survey from a marketer, they would say, I am a Christian, but they don't even know the gospel. And they think, like many Christians today, they think, oh, Christianity is just one religion among many in the world, and they're all basically the same level of true or false, and they're all basically the same. They're all about being A good person and being a good citizen and doing kindness to others. And I'm a Christian because that's what I was born into and that's the family I was raised in. And I haven't converted to anything else, so I'm a Christian That's what these people are. Okay? Because the other gods of the other nations, yeah, they'll worship them sometimes. They they bring those idols in. They they perform their sacrifices before them because hey, it's all basically the same. Yahweh, Baal, Ashura, Dagon, Nishrach, it it's all basically the same But it's not. And so the Lord is no longer going to protect them, no longer going to bless them, because ultimately he wants this people to really come to know him as he really is. So when the people say, why are we having all of this great evil brought against us? Jeremiah is to tell them the truth. You've forsaken the Lord. You've gone after other gods. You've served and worshiped them. They've forsaken the Lord. They've not kept his law They've done worse than their fathers, they follow their own stubborn, evil will, refusing to listen to the Lord, and that's because they don't know the Lord. They serve other gods day and night because they don't understand the uniqueness of God. But after he's driven them out, after he's sent them into exile, the Lord is going to restore them. And he says, Days are coming when it will no longer be said these are the people who were brought out of Egypt, but rather these are the people who were brought out of the North Country. where the Lord had driven them and the Lord brought them back. He's going to bring them back to their own land that he gave to their fathers. And so They will come back. They will be able to fish and hunt and catch in their own land, but first they're going to be disciplined for these detestable idols that have filled the land, filled the Lord's people with abominations. And then we have Jeremiah's Confession of faith here. Jeremiah's confession of faith, O Lord, my strength and my stronghold, my refuge in the day of trouble, to you shall the nations come From the ends of the earth and say, Our fathers have inherited nothing but lies, worthless things in which there is no profit, can a man make for himself gods? Such are not Back in chapter fifteen, verses nineteen to twenty-one, let's just go back there really quickly The Lord told Jeremiah to return to him, to stand before him. And to speak what is true and not what is worthless. Because Jeremiah's been whining, he's been complaining, he's been sort of resisting, and God's called upon Jeremiah And this is Jeremiah's doing that. This is Jeremiah's answering the call of the Lord, because he says now what is is true and what is precious, O Lord, my strength and my stronghold, my refuge. He believes what the Lord tells him, and he confesses what the Lord tells him. So much of our lives is really driven by what we believe and what we say based upon what we really believe. Now, sometimes we can say one thing in Sunday morning at church, or we can say one thing to the Lord in our prayer time, but then when we get out into the world, we say say something different because really we're kind of hedging our bets and we have kind of two sets of beliefs. We're wavering between two different opinions. The Lord wants us to say what is true, what is precious and not what is worthless. So again, the last verse, as I told you before, gives us the reason for the The Lord doing all of this. Therefore, behold, I will make them know this once I make them know my power and my might. And basically In other words, what Jeremiah has just confessed, the Lord is going to teach to all of his people, and that's why he's bringing them through this. judgment. God cares most about our eternal souls and our eternal destinies and our eternal of our standing before him because that is what matters most. If you had a friend who was dying of cancer, But they hated the chemotherapy and so they stopped it because all they wanted to do was eat cookies and ice cream and go on long vacations on the beach. and the cancer was eating away and they could absolutely be cured by getting the chemos like a very, very curable, treatable thing. They just didn't like the side of it. effects or whatever, you would probably urge them to go through the pain of that process. You would plead with them to go through the pain of that process to be ready. of that cancer. This is spiritually and eternally what the Lord is doing with his people. They don't know him. They don't worship him They don't understand him. They can't say the same confession of faith that Jeremiah just said. And without true faith, without knowing the Lord, as we saw a couple days ago in Jeremiah seven uh John seventeen and Jesus Jesus high priestly prayer, eternal life is to know the one true God and Jesus Christ whom He has sent. They don't know the one true God, therefore they don't have eternal life. And so what does it matter if they have peace or war or prosperity or poverty? They don't have eternal life. And so the Lord's going to plunge them into darkness and chaos that they might come to know him. him, and that they might call upon him in faith. And that happens after the restoration from exile The people are remarkably turned to the Lord. Perfectly, no, but truly and remarkably, because God accomplishes his purpose. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for loving us. Thank you for giving us life in your Son Jesus. Thank you for drawing our hearts to know you and to love you. Help us to be consistent, help us to speak what is precious and not what is worthless. Help us to confess our faith openly before a watching world and not to waver between two different opinions. Help us to be your people in spirit and in truth in every day of our lives and for all of eternity. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Jeremiah 16. Tomorrow we're going to go back to the Gospel of John for John 18. Have a blessed day in the Lord.