Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Dummel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is so good to be with you on day 914 as we are together today in Jeremiah 33. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is truth, a gift from you to us your people Come and speak to us. Come and write your word on our hearts. Come and show us more of Jesus that we might walk with him by faith. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah 33. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah a second time while he was still shut up in the court of the guard. Thus says the Lord who made the earth. The Lord who formed it to establish it, the Lord is his name. Call to me, and I will answer you. And I will tell you great and hidden things that you have not known. For thus says the Lord. the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city, and the houses of the kings of Judah that were torn down to make a defense against the siege mounds and against the sword. They are coming in to fight against the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the dead bodies of men whom I shall strike down in my anger and my wrath, for I have hidden my face from this city. because of all their evil. Behold, I will bring to it health and healing, and I will heal them and reveal to them abundance of prosperity and security. I will restore the fortunes of Judah and the fortunes of Israel and rebuild them as they were at first. I will cleanse them from all the guilt of their sin against me, and I will forgive all the guilt of their sin and rebellion against me. And this city shall be to me a name of joy, a praise, and a glory. before all the nations of the earth, who shall hear of all the good that I do for them. They shall fear and tremble because of all the good and all the prosperity I provide for it. Thus says the Lord, in this place Of which you say, it is a waste without man or beast. In the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate without man or inhabitant or beast, there shall be hurt again. The voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voices of those who sing as they bring thank offerings to the house of the Lord. Give thanks to the Lord of hosts, for the Lord is good, for his steadfast love endures forever, for I will restore the fortunes of the land as at first, says the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, in this place. That is waste, without man or beast, and in all of its cities there shall again be habitations of shepherds resting their flocks in the cities of the hill country. in the cities of the Shephila, and in the cities of the Negev, in the land of Benjamin, the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, flocks. shall again pass under the hands of the one who counts them, says the Lord. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord. When I will fulfill the promise I made to the house of Israel and to the house of Judah. In those days and at that time I will cause a righteous branch to spring up for David, and he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. In those days Judah will be saved, and Jerusalem will dwell securely, and this is the name by which it will be called. The Lord is our righteousness. For thus says the Lord, David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne of the house of Israel. And the Levitical priests shall never lack a man in my presence to offer burnt offerings, to burn grain offerings, and to make sacrifices forever. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Thus says the Lord, if you can break my covenant with the day, and my covenant with the night, so that day and night will not come at their appointed time, then also my covenant with David, my servant, may be broken, so that he shall not have a son to reign on his throne, and my covenant with the Levitical priests, my ministers. As the hosts of heaven cannot be numbered, and the sands of the sea cannot be measured, so I will multiply the offspring of David my servant, and the Levitical priests who minister to me The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Have you not observed that these people are saying, The Lord has rejected the two clans that he chose? Thus they have despised my people, so that they are no longer a nation in their sight. Thus says the Lord, if I have not established my covenant with day and night and the fixed order of heaven and earth, that I will reject the offspring of Jacob and David my servant, and will not choose one of his offspring to rule over the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob for I will restore their fortunes and will have mercy on them. That is Jeremiah 33. It's a wonderful, powerful chapter, especially when you consider the context. So Jeremiah is in prison. He is shut up in the court of the guard. Why? Because he's been prophesying that the king of Babylon is going to destroy Jerusalem. It's going to be reduced to rubble. that the king who's in Jerusalem, uh Zedekiah, is going to be taken off into captivity, that it's going to be over for everybody, and that there's no hope of escape. There's no last-minute reprieve. It's not going to be another year or two, and then the exile is going to be over. It's going to be a 70-year exile. It's going to be a lifelong exile. And yet, and yet, even in the midst of this, where the people have responded to Jeremiah and said, put him in prison. We don't want to hear what this guy has to say anymore. We're sick of this guy who only tells us bad news. He's a doom and gloom prophet in the midst of this. Jeremiah speaks powerful gospel words of hope. This is gracious. It's completely undeserved. These people didn't deserve it. And it was wonderfully unexpected. Because while it's true that the Lord would make Jerusalem desolate and the cities of Judah desolate It's also true that the Lord would restore, because the Lord loves his people. So the Lord begins with this gracious invitation. Call to me, verse 3, and I will answer you, and will tell you great and hidden things that you have not known. No one, no one but the Lord can predict the future. There's a lot of people who make a living trying to predict the future, pretending to predict the future, fortune tellers, psychics, economists. political pundits. They will say this, that, or the other thing. But only the Lord knows what the Lord is going to do. He is the sovereign one who can predict the future because he controls the future as he controls. the present and has controlled the past. And so he says, yes, all of these Who are now in Jerusalem. The houses, the city, the kings. They've torn everything down to make a defense. But the Chaldeans are going to come in. That's the Babylonians. They're going to come in. They're going to fill the city with the dead bodies of the men I will strike down in my anger and wrath. But then in the very next breath, he goes from saying, I've hidden my face from the city because of all their evil. Behold, I will bring to it health and healing. Wait, what happens between verse 5 and 6? Nothing but the grace of God. Nothing but the grace of God. If we think that we do something to earn God's salvation, that we do something to deserve it, that somehow He has to give it to us because we're so good or we're so faithful, Passages like this ought to just wake us up and realize it is the grace of God, the undeserved favor and kindness of God when we deserve judgment. The judgment, the dead bodies, the anger, the wrath, that's what the sin of God's people deserve. And God will give that. But then he will turn around and give them what they don't deserve, which is healing, health. prosperity, security, fortunes, rebuilding, and then something even more. And this is where we get into real gospel promises. Verse 8, I will cleanse them from all their guilt of their sin against me, and I will forgive all the guilt of their sin and rebellion against me. And this city shall be to me a name of joy, a praise, and a glory, because of all the good and all the prosperity I provide for it. So God says, I'm going to give you. Two two main things are emphasized in this chapter. First of all, forgiveness, cleansing of guilt, of sin. And then the second big thing is The king, the king, the son of David, the branch of David, who's gonna sit on the throne forever. What's very interesting is that in between these promises, right here in the heart of Jeremiah 33, is a reference to the fact that in this waste place, without man or beast, there shall again be habitations of shepherds resting their flocks in the cities of the hill country Does that remind you of anything? When the one comes who provides cleansing from sin, and who will be the king, the branch of David, forever. When he comes, the scene opens with shepherds. living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flocks by night, in the hill country of Judah This these verses are fulfilled, and that's where the good news is announced. It's right after that description of Jerusalem of these shepherds that it says Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will fulfill the promise I made to the house of Israel and to the house of Judah. In those days at that time I will cause a righteous branch to spring up. See flocks of shepherds in the field. In the hill countries of Judah, here comes the branch. Here comes the branch. In those days, Judah will be saved. And what's the name of this branch? What's the name of this Messiah? The Lord is our righteousness. So what does that mean? Well, the branch So fuller description, also given to us in Isaiah and in Zechariah. There is the cutting down of the tree of the Davidic dynasty to make it a stump. And then a branch comes from the root, from that which is deeper down than David. As Micah the prophet says, his goings forth have been from ancient times, even from everlasting. This branch, this Messiah. And he will sit on the throne. And there's two key things promised: king and priest. And Jesus is both of those things. He's our eternal king and he's our great high priest. He makes sacrifice to forgive us of our sin. And he ever lives to make intercession for us as our great high priest, and he rules and reigns over us for our good. And God will do this. God will bring this about. It will absolutely come to pass. And it comes to pass in the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. That's awesome. What great gospel grace. What a wonderful king and priest we have, and Jesus our Savior, the righteous branch, the Lord our righteousness. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Help us to trust in Him. Give us The desire, the passion, the commitment, the faith, the hope to keep following, keep trusting Keep looking to the righteous branch, the Lord our righteousness, our great high priest, who cleanses us of every sin and never stops praying for us. May we follow after Jesus day by day, representing him faithfully in this world until we are home face to face. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 33. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 34. Have a blessed day in the Lord.