Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Dummel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to our eight hundred and sixty-ninth day together in the Word of God, and we're in Jeremiah chapter three. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and for the gift it is, the blessing it is to be able to gather day by day and to be in study together. Your word is truth. It's full of truth and life. It imparts wisdom to us. It shows us your Son, our Savior. We pray that your Spirit would give us faith, understanding. And that we would be able to walk more closely with you for the time we spend in your word together today. We pray this, Father, for your glory in our lives in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Jeremiah chapter 3. If a man divorces his wife, and she goes from him and becomes another man's wife, will he return to her? Would not that land be greatly polluted? You have played the whore with many lovers, and would you return to me, declares the Lord. Lift up your eyes to the bare heights and see, where have you not been ravished? By the waysides you have sat awaiting lovers, like an Arab in the wilderness, you have polluted the land with your vile whoredom Therefore the showers have been withheld, and the spring rain has not come. Yet you have the forehead of a whore. You refuse to be ashamed. Have you not just now called to me, My father, you are the friend of my youth. Will he be angry forever? Will he be indignant to the end? Behold, you have spoken, but you have done all the evil that you could. The Lord said to me, In the days of King Josiah, Have you seen what she did, that faithless one Israel? How she went up on every high hill and under every green tree and there played the whore. And I thought, after she has done all this, she will return to me, but she did not return, and her treacherous sister Judah saw it. She saw that for all the adulteries of that faithless one, Israel, I had sent her away with the decree of divorce. Yet Her treacherous sister Judah did not fear, but she too went and played the whore. Because she took her whoredom lightly, she polluted the land, committing adultery with stone and tree. Yet for all this Her treacherous sister Judah did not return to me with her whole heart, but in pretense, declares the Lord. And the Lord said to me, Faithless Israel has shown herself more righteous than treacherous Judah Go and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, Return, faithless Israel, declares the Lord. I will not look on you in anger, for I am merciful, declares says the Lord. I will not be angry forever. Only acknowledge your guilt that you have rebelled against the Lord your God and scattered your favors among foreigners under every green tree and that you have not obeyed my voice, declares the Lord. Return, O faithless children, declares the Lord, for I am your master. I will take you one from a city, and two from a family, and I will bring you to And I will give you shepherds after my own heart, who will feed you with knowledge and understanding. In those days, declares the Lord, they shall no more say the ark of the covenant of the Lord. It shall not come to mind or be remembered or missed. It shall not be made again. At that time Jerusalem shall be called the throne of the Lord, and all nations shall gather to it, to the presence of the Lord in Jerusalem, and they shall no more stubbornly follow their own evil heart. In those days the house of Judah shall join the house of Israel, and together they shall come from the land of the north to the land that I gave your fathers for a heritage. I said How I would set you among my sons, and give you a pleasant land, a heritage most beautiful of all nations. And I thought you would call me my father, and would not turn from following me. Surely as a treacherous wife leaves her husband, So you have been treacherous to me, O house of Israel, declares the Lord. A voice on the bare heights is heard, the weeping and pleading of Israel's sons because they have perverted their way. They have forgotten the Lord their God. Return, O faithless sons, I will hear, heal your faithlessness. Behold, we come to you For you are the Lord our God. Truly the hills are a delusion, the orgies on the mountains, truly in the Lord our God is the salvation of Israel But from our youth the shameful thing has devoured all for which our fathers labored, their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters. Let us lie down in our shame And let our dishonor cover us, for we have sinned against the Lord our God, we and our fathers, from our youth even to this day, and we have not obeyed the voice. of the Lord our God. That is Jeremiah Chapter three The language of Jeremiah is so strong. It is so passionate. And the reason for it, quite simply Is that God wants us to understand the heart that He has for His people? We think about God and and faithfulness and sin and things like that. And we can become kind of detached from them a little bit and we can think like, oh well God and religion and that's sort of important to be a moral person I guess. And yeah, I probably shouldn't sin in these ways, and I probably shouldn't love the world because God tells me not to, and that's probably not super good, and etc. etc. But God has been consistent. throughout Scripture, in painting the picture of his relationship with his people as a bridegroom to his bride. As a husband to his wife, that we he loves us. He's jealous for us. Like a husband is jealous for his wife and is absolutely devastated Beyond words, if his wife is unfaithful and goes and would sleep with other men. That's absolutely devastating to a husband And so God takes that language and brings it front and center and says, imagine, imagine if you had a wife Who just left you and went and slept with some other man? Are you going to go after her? Or are you going to say, What do I have to do with her? She's she was disloyal to me. She's she's she's unfaithful. It's worse than that, though. By embracing many gods and alliances with many nations, by making many sacrifices on every green hill and under every leafy tree, and by offering up these sacrifices to the these foreign gods, Israel has been not just like an adulterous wife, but a prostitute. A prostitute. Who's looking after many lovers, hoping to get some sort of benefit from them? Oh, protection from Egypt, protection from Assyria Rain from Baal, fertility from Asherah, you know, blessing on my crops, blessing on my home. If I will give myself to them, I'll get paid for it. Now that's a disgusting thought for any for any husband who's married, or anyone who understands marriage, the idea of having a wife who's a wanton prostitute and unashamed about it. is really just gut-wrenchingly awful, despicable to even think about And yet God says that this is how his people are to him when we worship other gods, when we love the world and go after its promises. instead of after the Lord. Now some of the language in here might be a little bit confusing because he talks about this prophecy he got during the reign of King Josiah, and he's talking about Israel and Judah. And here you need to know a little bit of historical background. Israel refers to the northern ten tribes. Remember, after Solomon His son Rehoboam, who took the throne in Jerusalem, was a fool, and Rehoboam's folly caused ten of the twelve tribes of Israel to split off. and form the northern nation of Israel. And then there was the southern nation of Judah, that was Judah and Benjamin and some of the Levites. Right? So you had these two nations. Ten tribes in the north, two tribes in the south, with the Levites scattered between both of them. And so this is the story that Israel, the northern kingdom, was treacherous, faithless. They never had kings that were faithful. They didn't have kings who taught them how to worship God rightly and who called them to worship God according to his word. From the very beginning, their very first king, Jeroboam, set up golden calves at Dan and Bethel and said, Here's how you can worship the Lord. Come and bow down before these golden calves. Don't go to Jerusalem. Don't go to the temple, don't obey the word of God. So they were faithless. But Judah, Judah had the temple. Judah had the Davidic kings. Judah had practicing Levites. And Judah had the negative example of what had happened to Israel when she was so faithless because Israel was carried off into exile by the Assyrians a hundred years plus before this prophecy. By the time King Josiah is on the throne, the northern kingdom of Israel has been carried away in exile for a hundred years. And so you would think having the temple, having the Levites, having the Davidic kingship, having the example of Israel who they saw get dragged off into exile a hundred years prior They would have learned. But no, they didn't learn. You would think that we, if we can look back and study church history, And we can understand where worldliness in the church gets you. What happens when you water down the gospel and replace it with a substitute gospel? What happens when you water down the preaching and teaching of the Word of God and you replace it with something that you borrow from the world? What happens? Bad things happen. Fruitlessness, spiritual apathy Cultural entrenchment. It's bad. The history of the church shows that over and over again And so, did Judah learn the lesson from Israel? No. Are we learning the lesson from what church history would show us when there is an overly politicized church? When there is an a church that's overly in love with the agenda and the priorities and the vocabulary of the world, a church that cares more about being rich and successful than about being faithful and fruitful. Have we learned that lesson? Or are we like Judah, and even though we have not only the Word of God and the Holy Spirit and the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper and a faithful history of ministry that we can look back on and build on, even though we have all that, are we still chasing after the world and wanting to be successful? Wanting to be bigger, wanting to be more influential, wanting to be more like the world, wanting the world to stand up and applaud us. If that's what we're doing, then we're like treacherous Judah. But God has a call to his people here And the call to his people in verse 12 is to return. To return. And he promises: I will not look on you in anger, for I am merciful. I will not be angry. forever. In verse 13, only acknowledge your guilt that you have rebelled. You have not obeyed my voice. Return For I'm your master, and I will take you, and I will bring you, and I will give you. He says, I'm going to take you from your foreign captivity, I'm going to bring you into my holy city, and I'm going to give you shepherds. That's what we should be longing for. We should be longing to say, I don't want to be in the world, of the world, following the world. I want to be in God's house with God's people, and I want. Faithful shepherds, shepherds who are shepherds after my God's own heart, shepherds who will feed me with knowledge and understanding, shepherds who will help me to grow. And then we can have a true influence on the world that's not a politicized or pop-psychologized or slick marketingized or whatever, but a true spiritual influence on the world, calling them to the Lord. Not parading ourselves, but calling them to the Lord. That's the promise of God. That if we return to him, if we call out to him, if we seek him, he will hear us, he will love us. He will lead us and he will build us up. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, how we need you. Oh, how we need you. The world calls with its siren song that is a death call. Our flesh kicks, wriggles underneath the yoke We need to see that you are our loving husband, our good and gracious Heavenly Father, the one who made us, the one who gave your Son for us, the one who loves us more than anyone or anything else ever could. And the one who's wiser, more powerful, more able to save and strengthen. Lord, save us and strengthen us. Build us up, we pray. In Jesus' name. Name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 3. Oh, loving getting into this book. Tomorrow, Jeremiah 4, have a blessed day in the Lord.