Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word One Chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill President. Presbyterian Church on our 939th day together in the Word of God, we come to Jeremiah 50. Pray. Father in heaven, you are the sovereign lord over all the nations. You raise up, you cast down, you move by your sovereign hand to accomplish your purpose. for the glory of your name and for the good of your people. Teach us today from Jeremiah 50. Write it on our hearts. Help us to receive and believe your word and help us to walk more closely with our King Jesus. In his name we pray Amen. Jeremiah 50 is the word concerning Babylon. The word that the Lord spoke concerning Babylon Concerning the land of the Chaldeans, by Jeremiah the prophet, declare among the nations and proclaim, set up a banner and proclaim. proclaim, conceal it not and say, Babylon is taken, Bel is put to shame, Merodak is dismayed, her images are put to shame, her idols are dismayed. For out of the north a nation has come up against her, which shall make her land a desolation And none shall dwell in it, both man and beast shall flee away. In those days and in that time, declares the Lord, the people of Israel and the people of Judah shall shall come together weeping as they come, and they shall seek the Lord their God. They shall ask the way to Zion, with faces turned toward it, saying, Come, Let us join ourselves to the Lord in an everlasting covenant that will never be forgotten. My people have been lost sheep Their shepherds have led them astray, turning them away on the mountains. From mountain to hill they have gone, they have forgotten their fold. And their enemies have said, We are not guilty, for they have sinned against the Lord, their habitation of righteousness, the Lord, the hope of their fathers Flee from the midst of Babylon, and go out of the land of the Chaldeans, and be as male goats before the flock, for behold, I am stirring up and bringing against Babylon a gathering of great nations from the north country, and they shall array themselves against her. From there she shall be taken. Their arrows are like a skilled warrior who does not return empty handed Chaldea shall be plundered, all who plunder her shall be sated, declares the Lord. Though you rejoice. Though you exalt, O plunderers of my heritage, though you frolic like a heifer in the pasture, and nay like stallions, your mother shall be utterly shamed And she who bore you shall be disgraced. Behold, she shall be the last of the nations, a wilderness, a dry land, and A desert. Because of the wrath of the Lord, she shall not be inhabited, but shall be an utter desolation. Everyone who passes by Set yourselves in array against Babylon all around. All you who bend the The bow, shoot at her, spare no arrows, for she has sinned against the Lord. Raise a shout against her all round She has surrendered. Her bulwarks have fallen. Her walls are thrown down. For this is the vengeance of the Lord. Take vengeance on her. Do to her as she has done, cut off from Babylon the sower, and the one who handles the sickle in time of harvest, because of the sword of the oppressor, everyone Shall turn to his own people, and everyone shall flee to his own land. Israel is a hunted sheep. Driven away by lions. First the king of Assyria devoured him, and now at last Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, has gnawed his bones Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I am bringing punishment on the king of Babylon and his land, as I punished the king of Assyria. I will restore Israel to his pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel and in Bashin, and his desire shall be satisfied on the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead. In those days and in that time, declares the Lord, iniquity shall be sought in Israel, and there shall be none. And since I will be able to do that, I'm not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure. Go up against the land of Mirathaim, and against the inhabitants of Picod, kill, and devote them to destruction, declares the Lord. Lord, and do all that I have commanded you. The noise of battle is in the land and great destruction. How the hammer of the whole earth is cut down and broken, how Babylon has become a horror among the nations I set a snare for you, and you were taken, O Babylon, and you did not know it. You were found and caught because you opposed the Lord. The Lord has opened his armory and has brought out the weapons of his wrath For the Lord God of hosts has a work to do in the land of the Chaldeans. Come against her from every quarter, open her granaries, pile her up like heaps of grain, and devote her to destruction. Let nothing be left of her. Kill all her bulls, let them go down to the slaughter. Woe to them, for their day has come, a time of their the time of their punishment A voice. They flee and escape from the land of Babylon to declare in Zion the vengeance of the Lord our God, vengeance for his temple. Summon archers against Babylon, all those who bend the bow, encamp around her. Let no one escape. Repay her according to her deeds. Do to her according to all that she has done for she has proudly defied the Lord, the Holy One of Israel. Therefore her y her young men shall fall in her squares And all her soldiers shall be destroyed on that day, declares the Lord. Behold, I am against you, O proud one, declares the Lord God of hosts, for your day has come. Come the time when I will punish you. The proud one shall stumble and fall, with none to raise him up, and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it will devour all that is around him. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the people of Israel are oppressed, and the people of Judah with them. Their Redeemer is strong. The Lord of hosts is his name He will surely plead their cause that he may give rest to the earth, but unrest to the inhabitants of Babylon. A sword against the Chaldeans, declares the Lord, and against the inhabitants of Babylon, and against her officials and her wise men, a sword against the diviners. that they may become fools, a sword against her warriors, that they may be destroyed, a sword against her horses and against her chariots. and against all the foreign troops in her midst, that they may become women, a sword against all her treasures, that they may be plundered, a drought against her waters, that they may be dried up For it is a land of images, and they are mad over idols. Therefore, wild beasts Shall dwell with hyenas in Babylon, and ostriches shall dwell in her. She shall never again have people nor be inhabited. for all generations, as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring cities, declares the Lord, so no man shall dwell there. And no son of man shall sojourn in her, behold, a people comes from the north, a mighty nation and many kings are stirring from the farthest parts of the earth. They lay hold of bow and spear. They are cruel and have no mercy. The sound of them is like the roaring of the sea See, they ride on horses, arrayed as a man for battle against you, O daughter of Babylon. The king of Babylon heard the report of them. and his hands fell helpless. Anguish seized him, pain as of a woman in labor. Behold, like a lion coming up from the thicket of the Jordan against a perennial pasture, I will suddenly make them run away from her And I will appoint over her whomever I choose. At the sound of the capture of Babylon the earth shall tremble, and her cry shall be heard among the nations That is Jeremiah 50. We've heard God's word against these other nations, these lesser nations. We heard his word against Egypt, against the Moabites, the Moabites, the Ammonites, the Philistines, the Edomites, the people of Uh of Damascus and Syria, but now the big guy, the most powerful empire in the world, the most powerful empire that the world had ever seen. Babylon. Babylon the Great Babylon the glorious, Nebuchadnezzar, one of the great rulers in the history of the world. This is the power And yet God says that Babylon will be taken down. He says that Babylon will be taken down by a country that comes out of the north. Verse 3, from the north. And that's a common refrain in Jeremiah. Trouble comes from the north. In some ways, that is just the sovereign hand of the Lord coming down from the north upon the people. But Historically, it's the Medes and the Persians, and if you look at a map, present-day Iraq and then Iran is sort of off to the north. I'll do it this way. So Iran is off to the northeast and comes down. Uh the Medo-Persians are the ones who overthrow Babylon. So there's there's kind of layers to this Prophecy because we're in Revelation and as we move through Revelation, tomorrow we're gonna be in Revelation 10, but as we move through and we get in Revelation, we're gonna come to a prophecy of the destruction of Babylon that's coming later in Revelation. And so Babylon becomes this image that is more than just about the historical kingdom of Babylon. ruled by Nebuchadnezzar, just as Egypt becomes an image of worldliness, just as the Philistines become an image of those who are perennially enemies of God's people. Um and And pagan, hostile pagans. So Babylon becomes a symbol of the great dominant world power. So in John's day in the first century when Revelation was written, Rome was the Babylon of the day. But Babylon changes depending on who is in the ascendancy. But Babylon is marked by selfishness, idolatry, pride, wealth, power, oppression. The great empires of the world are the Babylons. Now historically, this passage is fulfilled when Babylon is judged by the Medo-Persians, when Judah Is restored under the very first year of the Persian monarch. Judah and Jerusalem are restored, and then there's a coming back into the land, and there's a cultivating of the land And those things are all um those things are all being fulfilled. But there is a further fulfillment of this So there's this temporal, historical, immediate sort of fulfillment, but then there's a further fulfillment, a yet more glorious fulfillment. So when we read, for example, in verses four and five, in those days and at that time, declares the Lord, the people of Israel and the people of Judah shall come together Weeping as they come, they shall seek the Lord their God. They shall ask the way to Zion with faces turned toward it, saying, Come, let us join ourselves to the Lord. In an everlasting covenant thou shalt never be be forgotten. They this is, you can see this in the return to the Promised Land. Under Zerubbabel, under Nehemiah, there were waves of return to the promised land, but also it's bigger than that. Because now in Christ, the people of Israel and the people of Judah are all of those from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation who belong to to the Lord. And now is the the day and the time when God is bringing them into his eternal Zion. What is the way to Zion is really a way of asking, what is the way to the kingdom of God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, to the Holy Mount Zion, that the church on earth is the earthly manifestation. But the church triumphant in heaven is the eternal glorification of. That's where we're going. And the everlasting covenant The everlasting covenant is that which comes as the new covenant in Jesus Christ, made in his blood. Jesus said on the night when he shared the Last Supper with His disciples, this cup is the new covenant in my blood. Which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. That's the covenant here, the everlasting covenant is the new covenant, which is ultimately in Christ. And so when we see that um for example, later um Later, when we see in verse 19, I will restore Israel to his pasture, he shall feed on caramel and abation, his desires shall be satisfied on the hills of Ephraim and Gilead. Then verse twenty, in those days at that time declares the Lord, iniquity shall be sought in Israel and there shall be none, and sin in Judah and none shall be found For I will pardon them, those whom I leave as a remnant. This is, of course, when they're restored, they do begin to enjoy the land. But ultimately, when is sin pardoned and remembered no more? But it's in that New covenant. When the Lord looks at us, his holy people, we are spiritual Israel. And when the when when we ask about our sin, our sin has been removed. Removed from us as far as the east is from the west, it's thrown into the sea of forgetfulness, and God declares that he will remember it no more. So when he looks at us, he doesn't see any sin There is no sin because he has pardoned us, and pardoned us at the price of his son on the cross. And so the ultimate fulfillment of these promises comes in Christ And the ultimate downfall of Babylon will come, the final utter destruction of Babylon will come when Christ returns again. and all of the Babylons, whether we're talking about Babylon or Greece or Rome or Napoleon or Hitler or you know, the Soviet Communist Empire or whatever, whatever the world dominating empires, they're all gonna fall. They're all gonna be left behind. On the ash heap of history, and God will bring in an eternal kingdom where his people will be absolutely safe. And so there is historically it is true that the city of Babylon became utterly desolated. Like there is no Babylon today. We were talking about Damascus a few days ago. I was talking about how Damascus was one of the great cities of the world. It's been around for thousands of years like Jerusalem, like Rome, like Athens, but not Babylon. And if you had gone back to Jeremiah's day, everybody would have guessed that Babylon would last forever. But Babylon's been completely uninhabited, completely Desolate for thousands of years because God judged it. But that's a picture. Not that the earth is going to be left uninhabited, but all of the sinful, self-exalting, others-oppressing Babylons. of world history will be swept from the scene and God will be glorified and God will be um will be with his people and all of those who proudly defy The Lord, as we read in verse 29, all those who proudly defy the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, that God is against because He is against they are against Him, they will all be taken away And what will be left? Well, verse 34, the Redeemer. The Redeemer is strong. Their Redeemer is strong. The Lord of hosts. The ultimate rest that will be given to the earth is when all sin and all evil is removed, when Babylon the Great is fallen, never to rise again. In any other form, and the King Jesus reigns supreme over the new heavens and the new earth. That's the coming of that. So what do we draw From Jeremiah fifty, well one of the things we need to realize is that like America is just another temporary human kingdom. It's not our eternal hope. Our hope is our citizenship in heaven, our citizenship in Zion Our place as God's Israel. That's our eternal hope. And our hope is that Christ rules over the affairs of nations now, and that He will reign over the new heavens and the new earth in sinless perfection. Our hope is also in the fact that our sins have been removed. God doesn't remember them anymore. There is no sin against us because He's pardoned it, and one day He will remove it completely and will bring us into A place of eternal rest in the new heavens and the new earth. So don't fear Babylon. Don't live in fear of whatever China. Russia, whoever might win the presidential election in America, the direction America might go in. Don't fear Babylon. Live in the hope That you are a child of God. You are a part of the citizenship of the kingdom of King Jesus, and you are holy, you are forgiven, and you are given the promise of an eternal rest. that awaits for you in Christ. Live for his kingdom and fear him and worship him alone. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus our King And so we thank you for that truth. We thank you for the kingdom that cannot be shaken. We thank you for sin that is forgiven, pardoned by the blood of Jesus that will never be brought up against us. Ever again. We thank you for freedom in Christ. We thank you for the promise of peace and rest that is coming. As we live in this fallen world, as we see Babylon active around us as we struggle against the the forces of darkness that are still so active in this world. Let us stand firm on the hope of Jesus Christ. Let our souls be anchored to his throne. We pray this In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's Jeremiah 50. Tomorrow we're going to go back to Revelation. Pick up Revelation chapter 10. I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord. Under the The reign of King Jesus