Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Fantham from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We've been together now for 896 days. This is our 897th day, and we come to Jeremiah 22. Let me get the right scripture up on screen. Jeremiah chapter 22. And um this word that that Jeremiah has spoken this broad word, but now there's a very specific word for Zedekiah. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. Oh, yesterday with cutting. I felt it. I felt it in my own spirit and my own heart, my own conscience. It was a cutting word. Father, thank you that your word cuts at times, because we need to be cut, so that we might be healed. So that the infectious idolatry within us can be taken out by your Holy Spirit. And we can be made more like Jesus. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah twenty-two Thus says the Lord, Go down to the house of the king of Judah and speak there this word, and say, Hear the word of the Lord, O King of Judah, who sits Thus says the Lord, do justice and righteousness, and deliver from the hand of the oppressor him who has been robbed And do no wrong or violence to the resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow, nor shed innocent blood in this place. For if you will indeed obey this word, then there shall enter the gates of this house kings who sit on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their servants and their people. But if you will not obey these words, I swear by myself, declares the Lord, that this house shall be cut A desolation. For thus says the Lord concerning the house of the king of Judah, you are like Gilead to me, like the summit of Lebanon. Yet surely I will make you a desert, an uninhabited city. I will prepare destroyers. against you, each with his weapons, and they shall cut down your choicest cedars, and cast them into the fire, and many nations will pass by this city, and every man will say to his neighbor, Why? Has the Lord dealt thus with this great city? And they will answer, Because they have forsaken the covenant of the Lord their God and worshipped other gods and served them. Weep not for him who is dead, nor grieve for him, but weep bitterly for him who goes away, for he shall return no more to see his native land. For thus says the Lord, concerning Shalem, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, who reigned instead of Josiah his father. father, and who went away from this palace, he shall return here no more. But in the place where they have carried him captive, there shall he die, and he shall never see this land again. Woe to him who builds his house by unrighteousness, and his upper rooms by injustice. Who makes his neighbor serve him for nothing, and does not give him his wages? Who says, I will build myself a great house with spacious upper rooms who cuts out windows for it, paneling it with cedar, painting it with vermilion. Do you think you are a king because you can Pete and cedar? Did not your father eat and drink and do justice and righteousness? Then it was well with him He judged the cause of the poor and needy. Then it was well. Is not this to know me? declares the Lord. But you have eyes and heart only for dishonest gain, for shedding innocent blood, and for practicing oppression And violence, therefore, thus says the Lord, concerning Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah. They shall not lament for him, saying, Ah, my brother, or ah, sister. They shall not lament for him, saying, Ah, Lord, or Ah, his majesty. With the burial of a donkey he shall be buried. Dragged and dumped beyond the gates of Jerusalem. Go up to Lebanon and cry out And lift up your voice in Bashan. Cry out from Abarim. For all your lovers are destroyed. I spoke to you in your prosperity, but you said, I will not listen This has been your way from the youth, from your youth, that you have not obeyed my voice. The wind shall shepherd all your shepherds And your lovers shall go into captivity. Then you will be ashamed and confounded because of all your evil O inhabitant of Lebanon, nested among the cedars, how you will be pitied when pain. Pangs come upon you, pains, as of a woman in labor, as I live, declares the Lord. Though Konea The son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, were the signet ring of my right hand, yet I would tear you off, and give you into the hand of those who seek your life into the hand of those whom you are afraid, of whom you are afraid, even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar King of Babylon, and into the hand of and the Chaldeans. I will hurl you and the mother who bore you into another country where you were not born, and there you shall die But to the land to which they will long to return, there they shall not return. Is this man Koniah a despised broken Why are he and his children hurled and cast into a land they do not know? Thus says the Lord Write this man down as childless, a man who shall not succeed in his days, for none of his offspring shall succeed in sitting on the throne of David and ruling again in Judah Jeremiah twenty two, so Hmm. This is the response back. It's not the response they wanted. If the last chapter wasn't the response they wanted, this is really not the response they wanted. But this message for king and for people, O King of Judah, who sits on the throne of David, you and your servants and your people who enter these gates, this is a message for king and for people. And at the heart of it is this: if you want the blessing of God, then you must do justice and righteousness. You see, the foundation of the throne of the Lord, the foundation of the kingdom of God. Is justice and righteousness. It was fulfilled and ultimately demonstrated on the cross, where Jesus fulfilled all righteousness for us And then received the just wrath of God that we deserve for our sins, and he gave us the righteousness that we need to be covered and clothed before a holy God. That was that was the culmination, that was the fulfillment, that was the demonstration, that was the embodiment and the perfection of justice and righteousness is the self-sacrificing righteous king dying for his people to take our punishment upon himself and give us his righteousness so that we might receive the grace of God We are to imitate that justice and righteousness, not treating people as their sins deserve, because God hasn't treated us as our sins deserve. are certainly not taking advantage of people who are weaker than we are. There are oppressors. There are robbers, there are those who do violence to foreigners, the resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow. These are three categories of helpless people in ancient Israel. Israel. Still today many of the same types of people are the helpless people. Right? Who are the helpless ones in our society? The ones who don't really belong here, they're from other countries, they don't speak the language, they don't the customs and sometimes they're taken advantage of and they're exploited for their labor and um you know it's not good. And then you have widows and you have Orphans, the fatherless, still have a an epidemic of fatherlessness in this country, and the consequence is that that echo throughout the generations and and widows, those who those who don't have husbands for whatever reason, sometimes violence or drugs or war, or sometimes just irresponsibility, the culture, there's there's no functioning husband in the The home, and so they're basically widows. This is these are people who are vulnerable and and they're they're exploited, they're preyed upon. And i if we love the Lord and if we've received from the Lord's hand grace If we've received from the Lord's hand mercy, we should be gracious, we should be merciful, we should be seeking to uphold the dignity of those who are made in his image. And God tells the king that that was the secret to Josiah's success. So we get back down here to the sons of Josiah. Because that's who's kings at this time. So a little bit of history background. Josiah died at a young age in battle, but he had several sons, and his sons uh Took turns ruling in the place of their father. The first one, uh Shalem, also known as Jehoahaz, he was only king for about three months in 609, and he was taken off into exile in Babylon and he's told he's never gonna return. Um, in fact he's gonna die in Egypt. And everyone who flees there, rather than surrendering to Babylon, is going to die there. But what was the secret to Josiah being blessed? It's a great section here. Look at verse 15 and 16. Do you think you are a king because you can Pete and Cedar? Did not your father eat and drink and do justice and righteousness, then it was well with him? He judged the cause of the poor and needy, then it was well, is not this to know me, declares the Lord. And then he says, But you have eyes and heart only for Dishonest gain. So this is the key. The key is not I have the best palace or I have the fanciest stuff or I have the biggest this or I have the most that. The key is I honor the Lord by imitating the character of the Lord, by doing justice and walking in righteousness, by judging the cause of the poor and the needy, defending the oppressed, by being their defender The same way I want the Lord to be my defender. You see, Jerusalem's in a place where they're saying, We are poor and we are weak compared to Babylon. We want you, O Lord, to be our defender and protect us against Babylon. And the Lord's saying Um, how are you doing at defending the weak within your, under your lordship? See, the Lord is king over Jerusalem and Judah and all the nations of the earth, and they want his protection because they're weak and they're vulnerable. But how is the king on his throne in Jerusalem? How is Jehoiakim? Treated those who were weak and powerless and who were facing oppression. Did he defend them? Did he deliver them? No. All he wanted was dishonest gain. And so innocent blood was shed, oppression and violence was practiced because it was profitable to the king. Profit over people, greed over good That is no way for God's people to live. That is no way for God's people to live. So Jehoiakim, Shalom's going to die in Egypt. But Joyakim's he's gonna die and he's gonna get a donkey's burial, which is basically just being dumped on the trash heap. Oh well, next Alright, so how do we take this? Well, we have such a greater king than any of these kings who sat in Jerusalem, and we should be oh so thankful for that. We were poor, we were needy, we were oppressed by sin and sin. Satan and death. And Jesus did regard our cause. Jesus did come to our rescue. Jesus didn't concern himself with selfish gain. He could keep and hold on to what he had. Jesus concerned himself with what we needed, and he poured himself out to give us what we needed so that we could be delivered Praise the Lord for our greater King, the greater son of Josiah than any of these. Amen. And what does he tell us? Follow me Follow me. So let's follow him. Let's live as he lived. Let's treat others as he's treated. Is that always easy? No. But it's what we're called to do. And it's right and it's good. And that's what it means to know God is to have received his grace and pass it on to others. Let's pray. Father, thank you for such grace. There is no God like you in heaven or on earth. There is no one so full of power and wisdom and mind Light and so full of grace and love for your own. We thank you beyond what any words could say for our greater King and His greatest gift of justice and righteousness for us. May we follow after King Jesus and how we love you and how we treat others. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, that is Jeremiah 22. Tomorrow we're going back to the Gospel of John. We're picking up at John chapter 20, great resurrection chapter. I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day. In the Lord.