Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and uh still on vacation here in beautiful Mountains of northern Georgia and uh on Lake Blue Ridge. We come on day 918 to Jeremiah 36. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word and for the gift and the blessing it is to be able to be in your word day by day. We pray that you would write Jeremiah 36 in our hearts. Give us a responsiveness to your word, tenderness of heart that would receive by faith what you speak to us, and would respond by walking closer with Jesus. It's in his name we pray. Amen. All right, Jeremiah 36. In the fourth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah. This word came to Jeremiah from the Lord. Take a scroll and write on it all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel and Judah and all the nations. From the day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiah until now, it may be that the house of Judah will hear all the disaster that I intend to do to them, so that every one may turn from his evil way, and that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin. Then Jeremiah called Barak, the son of Nariah, and Barak wrote on a scroll, at the dictation of Jeremiah, all the words that the Lord had spoken to him. And Jeremiah ordered Barak, saying, I am banned from going to the house of the Lord, so you are to go, and on a day of fasting In the hearing of all the people, in the Lord's house, you shall read the words of the Lord from the scroll that you have written at my dictation. You shall read them also in the hearing of all the men of Judah who come out of their cities. It may be that their plea for mercy will come before the Lord, and that every one will turn from his evil way, for great is the anger and wrath that the Lord has pronounced against this people And Barak, the son of Nariah, did all that Jeremiah the prophet ordered him about reading from the scroll the words of the Lord in the Lord's house. In the fifth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, King of Judah, in the ninth month, all the people in Jerusalem And all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem proclaimed a fast before the Lord Then, in the hearing of all the people, Barak read the words of Jeremiah from the scroll in the house of the Lord, in the chamber of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, the secretary. which was in the upper court at the entry of the new gate of the Lord's house, when Micaiah, the son of Gemariah, son of Shaphet, heard all the words of the Lord from the scroll. He went down to the king's house, into the secretary's chamber, and all the officials were sitting there Elishima, the secretary, Deleiah, the son of Shemea, El Nathan, the son of Akbor, Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the officials. And Micaiah told them all the words that he had heard, when Barak read the scroll in the hearing of the people. Then all the officials sent Jehouti, the son of Nathanah, Nathaniah, Son of Shemaliah, son of Cushy, to say to Barak, Take in your hand the scroll that you read in the hearing of the people, and come. So Barak, the son of Nerah, took the scroll in his hand and came to them. And they said to him, Sit down and read it. So Barak read it to them. When they heard all the words, they turned one to another in fear, and they said to Barak, We must report these words to the king. They asked Baric, tell us, please, how did you write all these words? Was it at his dictation? Berwick answered them. He dictated all these words to me while I wrote them with ink on the scroll. Then the officials said to Berwick, Go and hide. you and Jeremiah, and let no one know where you are. So they went into the court of the king Having put the scroll in the chamber of Elishima the Secretary, and they reported all the words to the king Then the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll, and he took it from the chamber of Elishima, the secretary, and Jehudi read it to the king, and all the officials who stood beside the king It was the ninth month, and the king was sitting in the winter house, and there was a fire burning in the firepot before him. As Jehuti read three or four columns, the king would cut them off with a knife and throw them into the fire in the fire pot until the entire scroll was consumed. in the fire that was in the fire pot. Yet neither the king nor any of his servants who heard all these words was afraid. Nor did they tear their garments. Even when El Nathan and Deleah and Gamariah urged the king not to burn the scroll, he would not listen to them. And the king commanded Jeromeel, the king's son, and Sarah, the son of Azrael, and Shemaliah, Shelemiah, the son of Abdeel, to seize Barak the secretary. And Jeremiah the prophet, but the Lord hid them. Now after the king had burned the scroll With the words that Barak wrote at Jeremiah's dictation, the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, take another scroll. And write on it all the former words that were in the first scroll, which Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, has burned And concerning Jehoiakim, king of Judah, you shall say, Thus says the Lord, You have burned this scroll, saying, Why have you written in it that the king of Babylon will certainly come and destroy this land, and will cut off from it man and beast? Therefore, thus says the Lord concerning Jehoiakim's king of Judah He will have none to sit on the throne of David, and his dead body shall be cast out to the heat by day and the frost by night, and I will punish him and his offspring and his servants for their iniquity. I will bring upon them and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem and upon the people of Judah all the disaster that I have pronounced against them. But they would not hear Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Barak, the scribe, the son of Nereah, who wrote on it at the dictation of Of Jeremiah, all the words of the scroll that Jehoiakim, king of Judah, had burned in the fire, and many similar words were added to them. That is Jeremiah 36. So in Jeremiah 36, we are going back in time a little bit from where we've been in Jeremiah 31 to 34, where Jeremiah's been giving more assurance to the people. After some exiles have already taken place. This is the fourth year of Jehoiakim, son of son of Josiah. We think this is around 605 BC. So um while Jerusalem would have suffered some defeat from from Babylon. This is before there's like a final defeat and an enslavement and a taking off of mass captivities. uh mass captives, which happens in about 597, or about eight years after this. So in other words, there's still time for repentance. And in fact, the Lord is looking to be gracious The Lord is looking to be gracious. The word came from the Lord to Jeremiah. The word came that said, take a scroll, write on it, everything I've said to you, all the way from the beginning of your ministry when Josiah was king. to now when his son is four years into his reign or his past several, several years, write down everything. And he says, It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the disaster that I intend to do to them, so that every one may turn from his evil way, and that I may forgive their iniquity and their So here's an opportunity, an opportunity for repentance. And they time it very well. This is in the fourth year. that the word comes, but they they they write it down and they wait until the ninth month of the fifth year, so about a year plus later When there is a fast day being proclaimed in Jerusalem, and men have come from the cities of Judah into Jerusalem, and they've proclaimed a fast before the Lord. Jeremiah has Barak, the son of Nerea, look down, write down all of these words, and then on this fast day. Barak reads this in the hearing of all the people who've gathered together to worship the Lord. Now it is very interesting. So you have this holy assembly. Of the men of Jerusalem and the men of Judah who've come together fasting before the Lord to worship the Lord In the upper court in the house of the Lord, at the entry of the new gate to the Lord's house, and Barak reads these words in the hearing of all the people except The king is not there, and none of the king's closest advisors are there either. Hmm. I wonder what we think of that. The king is not with his people when they are fasting before the Lord and worshiping him. You see, this indicates But there's this kind of rivalry between the king and his desire for power and the Lord and his priests and his temple being the center of worship and the king doesn't really want to share his power. He wants to have it for himself. And so the people can proclaim a fast day and they can gather together, but the king, ah, he's not anywhere around, and neither are his closest officials. But Micah, the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, he hears all the words from the scroll. So he goes down to the king's house. He goes to the secretary's chamber. He finds Elishima the secretary, Deleah the son of Shemea, El Nathan the son of Akfor, Gemariah the son of Shaphan, Zedekiah the son of Hananiah and all the officials. So so the closest, the king's cabinet, basically the king's closest advisors, he goes and finds all of them. And when they hear the words of the scroll, they are very distressed. They Are grieved, and they're in fear at the word of the Lord, and they want to tell the words to the king. But the king has no fear of God. The king mocks the word of God. The king burns the word of God. He has it read out loud to him. So he hears it. He hears every word of it. But then he says, ah, three or four columns red, let me cut that off and let me throw it into the fire. So he's hearing the word of God and he's despising the word of God He hears it, he knows it, he knows it comes from a true prophet, and he despises it, and he burns it, even when his officials tell him not to do so. He's doing so even when El Nathan and Deleah and Gemariah tell him, Don't burn the scroll, O king. He doesn't listen to them He has no regard for anybody but himself. This is hard-hearted rebellion, and it comes with a consequence Jehoiakim cannot get rid of the Word of God. People who doubt, people who mock, People who ridicule, people who disregard, people who despise the Word of God cannot get rid of the Word of God. The Word of God has been despised by men since the day it was given. We're here twenty six hundred years plus, twenty six hundred and twenty-five years 2625 years after this incident with Zedekiah, and still you have people today saying, Oh, the Bible's a man-made book and it's always full of contradictions, and oh it's an evil book that encourages slavery and oppression and sexism and oh they say all these things terrible about the Bible and guess what? The Bible is in more languages And in the hands of more people, and being read by more people than ever before, because man cannot destroy the Word of God. But But man can bring destruction on himself for despising the Word of God. And so the Lord says to Jehoiakim, Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, he's going to have no one to sit on the throne of David. His dead body will be cast out to the heat by day and the frost by night. I'm going to punish him. This word is fulfilled. We'll get to it at the very first verse of our next chapter in Jeremiah, the fulfillment. of this judgment, but it is fulfilled. God keeps his word. God's word never fails. God's word cannot be stopped. People only bring destruction and judgment on themselves when they refuse to hear it. Do we ever despise the Word of God in our hearts because we don't like it? We don't like what it says. We don't really want to hear it. We want to resist, we want to rebel, we need to repent. We need to repent, we need to seek the Lord, we need to hear his word, we need to allow his word to change us from the inside out by the power of his Holy Spirit. That we might hear it, that we might heed it, and that we might live. Let's pray. Father in heaven, your word is good, perfect, true, trustworthy, faithful, reliable. Thank you for it. Write it on our hearts that we might treasure it and live it. Thank you for Jesus, who is the embodiment of your word, who is the fulfillment of your word. And who is our righteousness and our peace before you? It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 36. Tomorrow we're going to jump over to the Psalms. And we'll be in Psalms 133 and 134. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.