Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 884th day together in the Word of God, and we've come now to Jeremiah chapter 13. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. Your word is truth. Reveals life in your Son to us. You've given it to us by your grace. Would you teach us through your Spirit that we might know you, that we might love you, that we might trust you. And that you might make us more like Jesus, our Savior. It's in His name we pray. Amen. Alright, Jeremiah chapter 13. Thus says the Lord to me, Go and buy a linen loincloth, and put it around your waist, and do not dip it in water. So I bought a loincloth according to the word of the Lord and put it around my waist. And the word of the Lord came to me a second time Take the loincloth that you have bought, which is around your waist, and arise. Go to the Euphrates and hide it there, in a cleft of the rock. So I went and hid it by the Euphrates, as the Lord commanded me And after many days the Lord said to me, Arise, go to the Euphrates, and take from there the loincloth that I commanded you to hide there. Then I went to the Euphrates and dug, and I took the loincloth from the place where I had hidden it, and behold, the loincloth was spoiled. It was good for nothing. Then the word of the Lord came to me. Thus says the Lord: Even so I will spoil the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem. This evil people, who refuse to hear my words, who stubbornly follow their own heart, and have gone after other gods to serve them and worship them, shall be like this loincloth which is good for nothing. For as the loincloth clings to the waist of a man, so I made the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah cling to me declares the Lord, that they might be for me a people, a name, a praise, and a glory, but they would not listen. You shall speak to them this word. Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, Every jar shall be filled with wine. And they will say to you, Do we not indeed know that every jar will be filled with wine? Then you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord Behold, I will fill with drunkenness all the inhabitants of this land, the kings who sit on David's throne, the priests, the prophets and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and I will dash them one against another, fathers and sons together, declares the Lord. I will not pity or spare or have compassion, that I should not destroy them Hear and give ear. Be not proud, for the Lord has spoken. Give glory to the Lord your God, before he brings darkness Before your feet stumble on the twilight mountains, and while you look for light, he turns it into gloom and makes it deep darkness. But if you will not listen, my soul will weep in secret for your pride. My eyes will weep bitterly and run down with tears, because the Lord's flock has been taken captive. Say to the king and the queen mother, take a lowly seat, for your beautiful crown has come down from your head. The cities of the Negev are shut up with none to open them. All Judah is taken into exile, wholly taken into exile. Lift up your eyes and see. Those who come from the north, where is the flock that was given you, your beautiful flock What will you say when you when they set as head over you those whom you yourself have taught to be friends to you? Will not pangs take hold of you like those of a woman in labor? And if you say in your heart, Why have these things come upon me, it is for the greatness of your iniquity, that your skirts are lifted up, and you suffer violence. Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his spots? Then also you can do good, who are accustomed. to do evil. I will scatter you like chaff driven by the wind from the desert. This is your lot, the portion I have measured out to you, declares the Lord, because you have forgotten me. and trusted in lies. I will lift up your skirts over your face, and your shame will be seen. I have seen your abominations, your adulteries and neigings, your lewd whorings on the hills in the field. Woe to you, O Jerusalem, how long will it be before you are made clean? Jeremiah 13. So God has Jeremiah do this object lesson. Interesting Lesson that God has Jeremiah enact. He has Ezekiel do some of these object lessons as well, and even Isaiah a little bit. But here is a linen loincloth. So this is an undergarment. The loincloth is basically underwear in the old in the uh ancient days And so he's to get a linen loincloth, he's to put it around his waist. So it's it's a close clinging garment. Don't dip it in water. So he buys it, puts it around his waist. We don't know, some time goes by until a second word of the Lord comes and says, Take it off of you now, and go to the Euphrates, and there hide it in a cleft of the rock. Well, what is that all about? Well, the Lord tells us this is an image of the judgment that he's going to bring upon Judah. The Euphrates River runs through Babylon. Babylon is going to take Judah and Jerusalem captive. They're already being taken captive. It's something that unfolds in stages over time. The the cities and towns are taken, and then Jerusalem is is conquered and exiles are taken and then more exiles are taken before the final fall. And and Jeremiah's ministry covers all of this time period of the of the ongoing conquest of Judah and Jerusalem, which takes uh about fifteen years, fifteen to twenty years for it to finally be carried out by Babylon. So so this is a picture of being sent into exile And of course, if you take a loincloth and you put it, bury it, it's not going to be good for anything. It's going to get all decayed. Right? And so what is the point here? The point is that the Lord had taken his people to himself as his bride To be in a close, intimate relationship with Him, to be His dearly loved one, to be close to Him. If you belong to the Lord, the church is called the Bride of Christ. And you are a member of that body of Christ that is also the bride of Christ. These are intimate connections to the Lord Idolatry, such as these people have been guilty of, they are being unfaithful. They're being spiritually adulterous. And the New Testament says the same thing in James 4:4. You adulterous people, do you not realize that friendship with the world is enmity toward God? So God takes idolatry, which worldliness is just a form of idolatry. It's worshipping the created thing rather than the creator. The world, everything in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of the life, comes not from the Father but from the world. And so there are consequences that come. Now, ultimately, Christ took upon himself the wrath of God, the final judgment of God, by being cut off for us, by being crushed for us. But that doesn't mean there aren't still consequences that come, temporal consequences, disciplinary consequences that come from idolatry. And that's one of the major themes that we get again in Jeremiah, again and again. So what is the response to us? Well, I'd like us to focus in on a few verses for us to take for ourselves as application. Hear and give ear, be not proud, for the Lord has spoken. Give glory to the Lord your God before he brings darkness, before your feet stumble on the twilight mountains And while you look for light, he turns it into gloom and makes it deep darkness. But if you will not listen, my soul will weep in in secret for your pride, my eyes will weep bitterly and run down with tears, because the Lord's flock has been taken captive. This is the call to us We must not be proud and think that idolatry is somebody else's problem. We must listen. We must give glory to the Lord our God. We must give him all the praise, all the credit. He must be the the love of our lives. We were in Psalms 129, 130, 131 yesterday And we saw there that we're to be with the Lord like a weaned child with his mother. We're to seek the Lord. We're to want to be with the Lord. He will give us light. He will give us strength. And if we will not listen, consequences will come and it will be grievous. So now, today is the day of salvation. Now is our opportunity to repent and seek the Lord Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, we need you. You've made us for yourself. You've redeemed us to yourself. You've called us to be your own We need you. We cannot live without you. We cannot fool ourselves into thinking that we can just run after the things of the world, live like the world, call ourselves people of God, and everything will be okay because it's not okay. So be our God and our Father. Always. May we glorify you. May we rejoice in you. May we long for you. May we belong to you, body and soul, heart, mind, life. Thank you for loving us. Thank you that Jesus took away all of our sins, that we have no wrath to fear. Thank you that you want a close and intimate relationship with us, although we don't deserve it. Thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's Jeremiah 13. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 14. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day. The Lord.