Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Dunnel from Forest. Presbyterian Church. It's our 885th day, only 15 days away from 900, and then the thousand, and we're heading to a thousand and ninety-sixth, I think, is the the number we'll have at the end of this year. It's been a three-year journey. We're almost two and a half years through. I hope that you've been along for the ride and enjoying each one of these days that we've been together. Or maybe you're just dropping in because you're curious about Jeremiah 14. Whichever it is, welcome. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It is a blessing and a treasure to us Please bless us now as we turn our attention to Jeremiah 14. Would you please write this on our hearts? Help us to understand it, to treasure Christ, to grow in our faith. We pray in his name. Amen. Alright, Jeremiah chapter 14. The word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought. Judah mourns, and her gates languish, her people lament on the ground, and the cry of Jerusalem goes up Her nobles send their servants for water. They come to the cisterns. They find no water. They return with their vessels empty. They are ashamed and confounded and cover their heads. Because of the ground that is dismayed, since there is no rain on the land, the farmers are ashamed, they cover their heads Even the doe in the field forsakes her newborn fawn because there is no grass. The wild donkeys stand on the bare heights. They pant for air like jackals. Their eyes fail because there is no vegetation. Though our iniquities testify against us, act, O Lord, for your name's sake. For our backslidings are many. We have sinned against you O you hope of Israel, its Savior in time of trouble, why should you be like a stranger in the land, like a traveler who turns aside to tarry for a night? Why should you be like a man confused, like a mighty warrior who cannot save? Yet you, O Lord, are in the midst of us, and we are called by your name. Do not leave us Thus says the Lord concerning this people. They have loved to wander thus. They have not restrained their feet. Therefore the Lord does not accept them Now he will remember their iniquity and punish their sins. The Lord said to me, Do not pray for the welfare of this people. Though they fast, I will not hear their cry, and though they offer burnt offering and grain offering, I will not accept them, but I will consume them by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence. Then I said, Ah, Lord God, behold the prophets say to them, You shall not see the sword, nor shall you have famine. But I will give you assured peace in this place. And the Lord said to me, The prophets are prophesying lies in my name I did not send them, nor did I command them or speak to them. They are prophesying to you a lying vision. Worthless divination, and the deceit of their own minds. Therefore, thus says the Lord concerning the prophets who prophesy in my name, though I did not send them. and who say, sword and famine shall not come upon this land. By sword and famine those prophets shall be consumed And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem, victims of famine and sword, with none to bury them. them, their wives, their sons, their daughters, for I will pour out their evil upon them. You shall say to them this word, let my eyes run down with tears, night and day. And let them not cease, for the virgin daughter of my people is shattered with a great wound, with a very grievous blow If I go out into the field, behold those pierced by the sword, and if I enter the city, behold, the diseases of famine. For both prophet and priest ply their trade through the land and have no knowledge. Have you utterly rejected Judah? Does your soul loathe Zion? Why have you struck us down so that there is no healing for us? We looked for peace, but no good came For a time of healing, but behold a terror. We acknowledge our wickedness, O Lord, and the iniquity of our fathers, for we have sinned against you. Do not spurn us for your name's sake. Do not dishonor your glorious throne Remember, and do not break your covenant with us. Are there any among the false gods of the nations that can bring rain? Or can the heavens give showers? Are you not he, O Lord? We set our hope on you, for you do all these things. Jeremiah 14. So Jeremiah 14 is a report on a different kind of disaster that's coming upon God's people as a consequence of for their sin, different from the invasion of the Babylonians, which is the main theme of the kind of judgment that God is bringing, and there is reference to the coming siege of Jerusalem in in this chapter. But it opens with a focus on a drought. So not only are they being invaded by Babylon, but they're also suffering drought. But in Deuteronomy 28. God promised this. God threatened them that this is what would happen if they broke covenant with him. So let's look at Deuteronomy 28. And the heavens over your head shall be bronze, and the earth under you shall be iron. The Lord will make the rain of your land powder. From dust from heaven dust shall come down on you until you are destroyed. The Lord will cause you to be defeated before your enemies. You will go out one way against them and flee seven ways before them, and you shall be a horror to all the kingdoms. So here we have in Deuteronomy 28. This is a threat of the consequences of covenantal unfaithfulness. And it includes drought and defeat. And so here we are in Jeremiah 14, and they are witnessing both of these things. Both drought and defeat And Judah is mourning. Her gates are languishing. Her people are lamenting on the ground Now this is significant because later in the chapter, of course, we read, can any of the gods, can any of the idols provide rain? Baal, the main Baal that was worshipped in in Canaan was supposed to be the storm god. You see, the land of Canaan, the land of Israel, got its water from rains that would come off of the Mediterranean, and you probably know the most famous confrontation between the prophet of the Lord, Elijah, and the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel. Mount Carmel sticks out into the Mediterranean Sea. And there Elijah confronted the prophets of Baal, and they were to call for fire from heaven to come and consume the sacrifice. sacrifice on the altar, and the prophets of Baal could not do so, and Elijah the Lord came through and vindicated himself. By consuming not only the fire, but also the water that Elijah had poured on there. But that was in a time of drought. There had been three and a half years of no rain. Before that time. Three and a half years for an agricultural society to deal without rain in a place where they were dependent upon seasonal rains was disastrous. But after the confrontation, after the Lord was victorious, and after the prophets of Baal were slaughtered, the Lord sent his servant to look, or Elijah sent his servant to look, and in came the storm, and it rained, and it poured. That was to show them that not only could the Lord send fire from heaven to consume, but the Lord is also the one who brings the rain Well, here, this is southern Judah. This is hundreds of years later, but they've been so unfaithful. They've given in to idol worship. They didn't learn the lesson of the confrontation on Mount Carl. Or any one of a dozen other times when the Lord showed that He was the one true God. And so now they have nothing. And though they have nothing Their prophets, their false prophets, are convincing them it's gonna be okay. Remember, twice already in Jeremiah's prophecy, the Lord has condemned people who say, peace, peace when there is no peace. And here the false prophets are telling them, oh, it's not going to be that bad. Jeremiah himself is pleading with the Lord in a more honest way. In verse 7, he says, Though our iniquities testify against us, Act, O Lord, for your name's sake, for our backslidings are many, we have sinned against you. And so Jeremiah is praying much more honestly, but of course The Lord tells him, stop doing this. Did that part of it shock you? The Lord says to them, don't pray for them. Verse 11. Don't pray for the welfare of this people. Though they fast, I will not hear their cry. Though they offer burnt offering and grain offering, I will not accept them. But I will consume them by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence. Why would God tell Jeremiah not to pray for this people? Because this people were idolatrous and unrepentant. And an unrepentantly idolatrous people need to be disciplined so that they can be rid of their idols before they can call upon the Lord and be heard. It's what the Lord said. They have loved to wander thus. They have not restrained their feet. Therefore the Lord does not accept them. Now he will remember their iniquity. And punish their sin, so don't pray for them. That's a very serious condition to be in. And what's made it worse is these lying prophets There will always be religious hucksters in the world who will sell people a message they want to hear, and there will always be people who are willing to pay to get a word from God that is what they want to hear. In our culture today, we have a lot of people who don't want to hear about sin. and judgment and repentance and consequences. They're like, oh, that's all legalistic, they call it. And so they just want to hear about peace, love, acceptance. And that's yes, God is love, and yes, God is merciful. But part of God's love is that He hates our sin, and God's mercy is extended toward those who know they need it. And mercy is for sinners. And so this word, sword and famine, shall not come upon the land. This is this peace, peace when there is no peace. The sword is coming. And so Jeremiah doubles down again, and he makes it very clear. He repeats an earlier lament of his. From back in chapter 9, let my eyes run down with tears, night and day, let them not cease, for the virgin daughter of my people is shattered. He says, if I go out into the field, there will be those pierced by sword, and if I go into the city, it'll be the disease of famine. Because that's what happens when siege comes We hear things like, oh, the siege of Jerusalem. We don't have any understanding of how horrible that is. When a city was laid siege to, you starve to death. You would eat anything. People would eat their belts. They would eat the leather of their sandals. They would eat body parts. They would eat dead bodies. They would eat anything, grass, they would eat dung. Anything they could possibly use to fill their bellies that wouldn't kill them because they were desperate. Sometimes they'd get so desperate that they'd try to sneak out at night and get food and then they'd be killed By the besieging army. That's what's coming for God's people. And it doesn't mean that God hates his people. He doesn't utterly loathe them. But he's waiting. He's waiting for the whole people to say what Jeremiah is saying here. We acknowledge our wickedness, O Lord, and the iniquity of our fathers, for we have sinned against you. Do not spurn us for your name's sake. Do not dishonor your glorious throne And then finally, we set our hope on you. This is their only hope. Their only hope is this coming. And the Lord says, He wants the people to get to a point where they're all crying that out. Where they're all confessing their sins. Not just Jeremiah. He tells Jeremiah, don't pray anymore on behalf of this people. They need to see for themselves what you can see clearly enough. And that's a pretty sobering thing. Well, what's the lesson for us? I've said it so many times, but maybe a different way to look at it this time is the things that we think we most deeply need. Maybe we do need them. And we think we can only get them from the world, and we think we have to cut corners and maybe compromise a little bit to get them. We're only hurting ourselves when we do that, and they only come really from God. Verse 22 Are there any among the false gods of the nations that can bring Rain? Or can the heavens give showers? You see, why were they committing idolatry? Because they thought it would bring them rain. Why were they worshiping the sky because that's where the rain came from And God's saying, no, that's not where the rain actually comes from. Why do we worship politicians? Because we think that that's where our freedoms come from? No, they don't. They come from the Lord. Or we think that's where economic prosperity is going to come from? Nope, that comes from the Lord too Or we think that's where peace is going to come from. No, that also comes from the Lord. And we can say, we can justify, well, of course, the Lord gives these things through people, yes, but he never asks us. To be idolatrous, he never asks us to sin or to participate in sin. He asks us to set our hope on him, for he alone does all these things. He is the Lord our God. So we need to get underneath. We talked a lot about repenting of our idolatry, turning away from idolatry. Sometimes we need to get underneath and say, why is it that we keep getting drawn to idolatry? What are we longing for? Peace? Freedom? Justice? Righteousness? God is the only one who gives any of those things. And he does give them through Jesus Christ, and he will give them through Jesus Christ. But he asks us to trust him, and he will not give them to a spiritually adulterous people who are chasing after those things in the world and from the world. We must honor the Lord. We don't want to dishonor God. We don't want to sin against God. We want God for the sake of his name, for the sake of his covenant with us To meet us where we are, have mercy on us, and draw our hearts to himself. Let's pray that. Heavenly Father, we need you, the one true God, maker of heaven and earth, keeper of the covenant promises, redeemer of your people Savior of our souls, giver of every good and perfect gift. We need you. We don't need the world. It's false promises. It's called to compromise. So make us your holy people in heart and mind and speech and behavior that we might honor you and that you might come to us. And meet our needs, carrying us through trials and tribulations, and blessing us with your presence and your love and your good gifts day by day. We seek this, Father, in Jesus' name Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 14. I think we're going back to the Gospel of John tomorrow. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.