Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word. One chapter per day, I'm Pastor Jason Van Devilton Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And it is our 929th day in the God's Word together. We're coming up on uh three years. We'll be Less than six months to go, and it's been a good a good trip. God's blessed us every day with good things from his word. That's what he promises to do. Let's pray and ask him to do that again with Jeremiah 43. Heavenly Father, thank you for your faithfulness to us day by day as we have been in your word. You meet with us and you speak to us, you build us up, and we're thankful for that. As we turn now to Jeremiah 43, would you please write this on our hearts and build us up in our faith in Christ and draw us close to yourself, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah 43. When Jeremiah finished speaking to all the people all these words of the Lord their God, with which the Lord their God had sent him to them, Azariah the son of Hoshiah And Johannon, the son of Koreah, and all the insolent men, said to Jeremiah, You are telling a lie. The Lord our God did not send you to say, Do not go to Egypt to live there, but Barak, the son of Nariah, has sent you against us to deliver us into the hands of the Chaldeans, that they may kill us. or take us into exile in Babylon. So Johannon, the son of Koreah, and all the commanders of the forces, and all the people, did not obey the voice of the Lord to remain in the land of Judah. But Johannon, the son of Korea, and all the commanders of the forces, took all the remnant of Judah, who had returned to live in the land of Judah. from all the nations to which they had been driven, the men, the women, the children, the princesses, and every person whom Nebu Zeravan, the captain of the guard, had left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikim, son of Shaph and also Jeremiah the prophet And Barak the son of Nerah, and they came into the land of Egypt, for they did not obey the voice of the Lord. And they arrived at Tophanes. Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah in Tophanes: Take in your hands large thumbs, and hide them in the mortar, in the pavement. that is at the entrance to Pharaoh's palace in Topanes, in the sight of the men of Judah, and say to them, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold! I will send, and take Jeremiah, the king of Babylon, my servant, and I will set his throne above these stones that I have hidden, and he will spread out his royal canopy over them. He shall come and strike the land of Egypt, giving over to the pestilence those who are doomed to the pestilence, to captivity, those who are doomed to captivity, and to the sword, those who are doomed to the sword. I shall kindle a fire in the temples of the gods of Egypt, and he shall burn them and carry them away captive. And he shall clean the land of Egypt, as a shepherd cleans his cloak of vermin, and he shall go away from there in peace. He shall break the obelisks of Heliopolis, which is in the land of Egypt, and the temples of the gods of Egypt, he shall burn with fire. That is Jeremiah 43. Hmm. We were set up for this a couple of days ago because when we were in Jeremiah 42, I told you that the people weren't going to listen to Jeremiah. It was pretty obvious by what Jeremiah was saying, that he was prepared for the reality that they were not going to listen to him. But it's interesting to think, well, how would Johann the son of Korea, who's been kind of a heroic person to this point. He he tried to save uh Gedaliah, the governor, and then he avenged his death by by chasing down the men who had who had murdered the governor. How would he respond? Because he had been so clear. He had asked Jeremiah to go and pray and seek the Lord, and he had said publicly before everyone, we will obey. the word of the Lord. How's he going to respond? Well he responds by accusing Jeremiah of lying Lying. Remember last time I said there were really two reasons why uh they didn't listen to Jeremiah the prophet. One Is that they had already made up their mind what they were going to do. They were already planning. Before they asked Jeremiah, they were already planning on going to Egypt. And the second is that they're afraid. And so if you already have your heart set in a certain direction and you're afraid, you fear men, you fear the Babylonians, you're going to be disobedient to God. That is what happens. And so here they're disobedient to God by accusing Jeremiah of lying. Because he has to say faith. He can't say to everybody, No, I'm not going to obey the voice of the Lord. The Lord may have said that. He may have sent you to tell me that, but I refuse to obey the Lord. He can't really say that. That would be shameful. That would be so obviously wrong. So he twists it. He spins it. Political spin is nothing new. Here's his political spin. You're telling a lie. The Lord our God did not send you to say, do not go down to Egypt to live there. And so instead, he wants to accuse Barak, the son of Nariah This is Jeremiah's friend and scribe. He'd been with Jeremiah throughout his ministry. Why would Barak do this? We don't know why. We haven't been told why they would accuse Barak of doing this. Perhaps Barak was encouraging them to listen to the voice of the Lord and stay in the land and submit to the Babylonians and trust the Lord, and so they think Barak's the one who's really influencing. But there's always an answer. You see, if we do not really in our hearts set apart the Lord as holy and trust him and determine to do his will no matter what it is, if we don't do that, We are caught up in the fear of man. We're caught up in earthly political calculations, and we make bad decisions and we spin it. in our own hearts, in our own minds, and then out of our mouths to say, well that's not truth. That's just a lie. That's not what the Lord requires. This is a special case. This is different. Yes, I know that I'm supposed to love God and love my neighbor and trust God and be faithful. But in this case I have to do this thing because of these extenuating circumstances. And God's word doesn't really apply here. And besides, God's word doesn't really say what it says. It says something else we twist, we manipulate because we want to do what we want to do. And that is just the truth. They wanted to go down to Egypt. And so not only do they make the decision to go down to Egypt, but they take everybody. Remember, they're the army. They're armed. They have the commanders of the forces. And so they take the whole remnant of Judah, everyone who had been personally entrusted to Gedaliah the son of Ahikim. Now they may have convinced most of them, hey, if you stay here, Gedali is dead, you were entrusted to his care, the Babylonians are going to show up and they're going to want answers and they're going to want to see heads roll, and it's going to be your head that rolls if you stay here. But they probably also could have just said, you're going to Egypt or else, because we're not going to leave anybody alive here who can tell what happened. And so they take everyone, including Jeremiah and Barak. So Jeremiah, who's been so faithful to God, has been telling them exactly what God says this whole time. Jeremiah is taken. Into captivity in this horrible way, forced to go to Egypt Now, why is it that God's people have always been looking at Egypt? Well, that's the captivity they came out of. That was the major global power that had sort of dominated the southern part of their sphere of influence. for hundreds and hundreds of years. They were already at this point the oldest kingdom in the world, the longest standing great world power. And so it's worldliness. Egypt is always a symbol and a sign of worldliness. Going back to the world, trusting in earthly political calculations instead of trusting in the Lord. So they go to Egypt. And when they get there, the Lord tells Jeremiah, Take some large stones and hide them in the mortar in the pavement that is at the entrance to the Pharaoh's palace in Tophanes. And he gives a very specific word that Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, is going to come and he's going to set up his throne right over those very stones that are in the mortar. in the entranceway to Pharaoh's palace. And of course that that does happen. The Babylonians come, you see, because when we think we can outsmart God When we think that God's not going to protect us, but we can provide better protection for ourselves, we are like Adam and Eve wearing fig leaves to cover the shame of our nakedness. What a completely inadequate cover. Nothing in this world is going to cover us. No politician, no Financial plan, no disaster preparedness, no earthly preparation, if it is if it is disobedient to God, if it is a substitute for trusting in God, if it becomes our idol and our hope. Now I'm not saying we shouldn't invest and save for retirement. I'm not saying we shouldn't at all, you know, seek to participate in the political process for the betterment of of the greater good of society. I'm not saying that, but I'm saying it's so easy. We need to be honest with ourselves about what our Egypt is and how we tend to trust in that Egypt. Because Nebuchadnezzar comes and he destroys Egypt and he does um he does completely subdue the Egyptians. And this begins a pattern where the great and mighty Egypt is subjugated first by the Babylonians, and then later they're subjugated by the Persians, and then later they're subjugated by the Greeks. And then later they're subjugated by the Romans. And so Egypt, the great power, is never going to be reliable as a refuge for God's people. We need to realize the same. The Lord Jesus Christ, He lived under the most powerful empire that the world had ever known to that point, the Roman Empire. In many ways, the most powerful empire that the world has ever known, period. So the Roman Empire, and then some say the Mongolian Empire of of Genghis Khan and Kublikon are rivals for the two greatest empires ever in the history of the world. And certainly In the Western world, there's nothing that's ever rivaled the Roman Empire. Jesus was under the tyrannical rule of the Roman Empire. He did not lead a political revolution. He did not order, you know, organize a band of insurrectionists to take matters into their own hands. He was hated and despised by his own people. And their leadership, particularly their political and spiritual leadership. And yet he trusted himself to the Father. He did what God called him to do, even though it was hard, very hard. To submit to being betrayed by Judas, condemned by Pontius Pilate, crucified, dead and buried Jesus trusted his Father and submitted to his Father's will, and in so doing worked salvation for all of God's people. And he calls us to take up our cross and follow him. Not chase the riches and the conveniences of this world, but take up our cross and follow him. Will we do it? Or will we keep looking to Egypt? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for such a Savior as we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you that everything in Him is ours, and we are His and we are yours through Him forever You keep us safe. You watch over us. You love us more than we could ever begin to understand. We praise you in Jesus' name Amen. Well, that's Jeremiah 43. Tomorrow we're going to go on to Jeremiah 44. Hope you can join me then. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.