Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter. For day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On our eight hundred and ninety-sixth day together in the Word of God, we're back in the Prophet Jeremiah for Jeremiah 21. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your unfailing word, for your faithfulness to us. Thank you for loving us with a love that is strong and faithful and true. We love you because you first loved us, and out of your love you've called us to be your children, and we're thankful for that call. Father, please write Jeremiah twenty-one on our hearts. May we respond in faith We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah 21 This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, when King Zedekiah sent to him Pasher, the son of Melkiah. and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maessia, saying, Inquire of the Lord for us, for Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, is making war against us, perhaps The Lord will deal with us according to all his wonderful deeds, and will make him withdraw from us. Then Jeremiah said to them, Thus you shall say to Jerem to Zedekiah, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands, and with which you are fighting against the king of Babylon and against the Chaldeans who are besieging you outside the walls, and I will bring them together into the midst of the city. I myself will fight against you with outstretched arm, outstretched hand and strong arm, in anger and in fury and in great wrath, and I will strike down the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast. they shall die of a great pestilence. Afterwards, declares the Lord, I will give Zedekiah son of Judah and his servants, and the people who In this city who survived the pestilence, sword, and famine into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and into the hand of their enemies, into the hand of those who seek their lives. He shall strike them down with the edge of the sword. He shall not pity them, or spare them, or have compassion. And to this people you shall say, Thus says the Lord, Behold, I set before you the way of life, and the way of death. He who stays in this city shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, but he who goes out and surrenders to the Chaldeans, who are besieging you, shall live, and shall have his life as a prize of war For I have set my face against this city for harm and not for good, declares the Lord. It shall be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire. And to the house of the king of Judah say, Hear the word of the Lord, O house of David. Thus says the Lord, execute justice in the morning. and deliver from the hand of the oppressor him who has been robbed. Let my lest my wrath go forth like fire and burn with none to quench it because of your evil deeds. Behold, I am against you, O inhabitant of the valley, O rock of the plain, declares the Lord. You who say, Who shall come down against us, or who shall enter our habitations? I will punish you According to the fruit of your deeds, declares the Lord. I will kindle kindle a fire in her forest, and it shall devour all that is around her That is the word of the Lord in Jeremiah 21. What do we do with this word? Well, we need to receive it, we need to hear it. We need to respond to it, which is exactly what King Zedekiah didn't do. But this wasn't the first time that Jeremiah had spoken. We're in chapter 21. We're years into his ministry And yet now Zedekiah sends to him Pasher and Zephaniah, two priests, and says, Oh, would you inquire of the Lord? Would you pray for us? You ever notice that people who don't have the time a day for God don't want to hear God's Word, don't want to believe in God's Son, don't want to receive God's gospel? Don't want God's forgiveness and salvation if they get sick or if they're in crisis. They'll call the Christian friend and say, would you please pray for me? Or would you have your pastor pray for me? Or would you have your church pray for me? That's kind of what we have here with King Zedekiah. He's supposed to be a believer. He's supposed to be the leader of God's people, but he's not really a believer. It's very clear from other parts that we'll see later in the book, but he just wants he says, Perhaps perhaps the Lord will deal with us according to all his wonderful deeds, and will make an easy Nebuchadnezzar withdraw from us. Maybe we'll get what we want, and Nebuchadnezzar will go home. Well, I'm going to jump down a little bit because there's actually a very direct response to Zedekiah. That the Lord gives them in verse 11 and 12 and following, to the house of the king of Judah, that's Zedekiah, say, Hear the word of the Lord, O house of David. Thus says the Lord, execute justice in the morning. How is Zedekiah supposed to know what justice is? It's according to the law of God, according to what is written. He should have a copy of Deuteronomy that he would have made with his own hand and that he should be using as his guide to how to govern Jerusalem and Judah. Of course, he's not doing that. But he should be execute justice in the morning, and deliver from the hand of the oppressor him who has been robbed, lest my wrath go forth like fire and burn with none to quench it because of your evil deeds. Zedekiah doesn't need a new word from the Lord. Zedekiah needs to be obedient to the word of the Lord that he already has. That is something that we need to hear. Like, so many times we're like, what does God want us to do in this time, in this cultural moment that we live in with these cultural enemies that surround us and with the the the decline of the church and the decline of Christendom, uh Christian influence in our country is is is being diminished. What are we supposed to do in this time What is the word from the Lord? And he says, You have a word from the Lord. It's the word of God that you've had. Are you doing what I've told you to do? Loving God, loving your neighbor, trusting in Christ, being a faithful witness. Putting away your idols, following after your king. Do what God tells you to do. before you go asking God to bless when you have no intention of being obedient. Now we can take that in a legalistic sense of And we can say, well, if I obey, then God has to bless, or my bl my obedience will earn God's blessing and all that. And we're not looking at this from a legalistic point of view. It really has to do with who has your heart Who has your heart? If the Lord has your heart, then you will want to do the Lord's will. You will love the Lord. You will love doing the Lord's will. And the things of the world will be vile to you. Now are they tempting and enticing? In our worst worst moments, in our weakest moments, yes, they are. We should be able to see them for what they are and say, hmm, that's That is not. That is not God's best for me. I want to do what God has called me to do. Well, the further answer that they get basically is They're wanting the Lord to answer them according to his wonderful deeds, right? Maybe he will deal with us according to all his wonderful deeds and make Nebuchadnezzar withdraw. And God says the exact opposite. He says in verse 5, I myself will fight against you with outstretched arm, handed strong arm, in anger and in fury and in great wrath, and I will strike down the inhabitants of this city. Nebuchadnezzar is going to get what he came for. But you have a choice You do have a choice. You can either surrender and live, or you can continue to stubbornly fight Even though you know you're guilty of breaking God's word, even though you're not repenting of breaking God's word, just continue to fight and be taken. Death. That's your choice. So now there's two words, right? There's two words from God that Zedekiah could obey. The one word is about executing justice Making sure even though they're under attack, even though war is coming, hey, start running the country the way that God says to run the country. And for the church context, because we we're no longer an earthly kingdom, right? America's not Israel. The church is Israel. We've gone over that a number of times. Hope you've gotten that number Message. America is not the new Israel. The church is the new Israel. So, church, are you running the church according to the Word of God? Prioritizing the preaching of the word, the worship of God, missions to unreached peoples, mercy to those who are in need. Or are you all about flash, entertainment? You know, size, influence, power, all the worldly things. What are you doing? What are you doing, church? What are you doing, church? Right? That's one. The other is A word for Zedekiah, and that is, you can surrender to the attacking forces, and they will take you captive. Or you can continue to stubbornly fight and know that you're not going to be fighting just against the king of Babylon. You're going to be fighting against me, the Lord says. You're going to be fighting against me. No, I do think I do think this is a valid application of this. Many believers in America today seem more committed to fighting cultural battles against the cultural enemies of Christianity Than they are with obeying the Lord in the things that God has called us to do. There are many people who will miss church For months on end, because their child is playing travel sports, and all the biggest tournaments are on Sunday days and so they completely check out of their covenant commitment to their local church for months at a time, but they wouldn't dare miss voting. Or posting on social media some cultural point that they're trying to make, or advocating for some cause in the culture wars. God's kingdom, God's church, God's people, God's missionaries, God's gospel isn't really all that compelling to them. Children's soccer is more important. But politics, that cannot be neglected. Am I stepping on toes? I can be guilty of the same things. I can be guilty of saying, well, I should be reading and studying and praying, I should be visiting, but I'd rather go do this thing that's self-indulgent. And watch this thing or go enjoy this thing. We need to have our priorities on what God's called us to do and not insist That we're going to do things our way, and we're going to see victory. You see, it's not wrong to fight. But what does Paul tell us in Ephesians 6 of who we're fighting against? Are we fighting against flesh and blood? Like Zedekiah was fighting against Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, but it actually turns out that he's fighting against the Lord as well. There's a spiritual component behind that Are we fighting against flesh and blood? No, we're not fighting against flesh and blood. We're fighting against powers and principalities. And how do we fight? We pray. We preach, we worship, we evangelize, we disciple the sword of the Spirit, the shield of faith, the helmet of salvation. The breastplate of righteousness, the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but they are mighty in God for the tearing down of strongholds and for taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ, taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. That's what we're called to do. That's what we're called to be about. So, Christians Is God's kingdom, is God's word, is God's church your highest priority? And is the call to engage in spiritual warfare in spiritual ways through prayer? Through preaching, teaching, discipling, evangelizing, sending out missionaries Is that that's what God's commanded? Is that the driving force of your life? Let's pray. Father. We do live in troubling times. It's easy to be disturbed and perturbed by what we see going on around us. By what we see going on within your own church. Lead us, Father, to be more faithful and more obedient, not to be stubborn and Militant in an earthly way, but to be faithful and persevering in a spiritual way, for the glory of your name, for the cause of your gospel We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That's Jeremiah 21. Tomorrow we're going to move on to chapter 22, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.