Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church And it's good to be with you again as we are on our 920th day in the Word of God, and we're here in Jeremiah chapter 37. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for another day, another time to spend in your word. Thank you for the prophet Jeremiah and all that we've been learning in this wonderful book. We pray now as we enter into chapter 37 together and hear some sobering words that we would see how they relate to us and how we need to receive them and respond to them. And we pray that you would draw our hearts closer to Christ through this time we spend in Jeremiah this morning. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Jeremiah 37. Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, whom Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, made king in the land of Judah. Judah, reigned instead of Koniah, the son of Jehoiakim. But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, listened to the words of the Lord that he spoke through Jeremiah the prophet. King Zedekiah sent Jehukal, the son of Shalemiah, and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maessiah, to Jeremiah the prophet, saying, Please pray for us to the Lord our God Now Jeremiah was still going in and out among the people, for he had not yet been put in prison. The army of Pharaoh had come out of Egypt, and when the Chaldeans were besieging Jerusalem, News, sorry, and when the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem heard news about them, they withdrew from Jerusalem. Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet. Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, thus shall you say to the king of Judah, who sent you to me to inquire of me. Behold, Pharaoh's army that came to help you is about to return to Egypt to its own land, and the Chaldeans shall come back and fight against this city They shall capture it and burn it with fire. Thus says the Lord, do not deceive yourselves, saying, The Chaldeans will surely go away from us for they will not go away. For even if you should defeat the whole army of the Chaldeans who are fighting against you, and there remained of them only wounded men. every man in his tent, they would rise up and burn this city with fire. Now, when the Chaldean army had withdrawn from Jerusalem at the approach of Pharaoh's army, Jeremiah set out from Jerusalem to go to the land of Benjamin, to receive his portion there among the people. When he was at the Benjamin Gate, A sentry there named Erijah, the son of Shelemiah, son of Hananiah, seized Jeremiah the prophet, saying, You are deserting to the Chaldeans. And Jeremiah said, It is a lie. I am not deserting to the Chaldeans. But Erijah would not listen to him, and seized Jeremiah and brought him to the officials. And the officials were enraged at Jeremiah, and they beat him and imprisoned him in the house of Jonathan the secretary, for it had been made a prison. When Jeremiah had come to the dungeon cells and remained there many days, King Zedekiah sent for him and received him. The king questioned him secretly in his house and said, Is there any word from the Lord? Jeremiah said, There is. Then he said, You shall be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon. Jeremiah also said to King Zedekiah, What have I done to you or your servants or this people that you have put me in prison? Where are your prophets who prophesied to you saying, the king of Babylon will not come against you and against the land? Now hear, please, O my lord the King, let my humble plea come before you, and do not send me back to the house of Jonathan the Secretary, lest I die there So King Zedekiah gave orders, and they committed Jeremiah to the court of the guard, and a loaf of bread was given him daily from the baker street, until all the bread of the city was gone. So Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard. In the opening verse of Jeremiah 37, we see the fulfillment of the prophecy that Jeremiah gave at the very end of chapter 36. So we can scroll back up again and just remind ourselves of this. It was King Jehoiakim, who in Jeremiah 36 had taken the scroll that contained all the words of Jeremiah's prophecies from the time he started under King Josiah until that day with King Jehoiakim. And he had written down all these words Uh Barak had written them down at Jeremiah's dictation. And it was King Jehoiakim who had taken these and every three or four columns that was read, he listened to them, he cut them, he threw them in the fire. And as a result of that, the Lord issued a decree against Jehoiakim, saying, he shall have none to sit on the throne of David. And his dead body shall be cast out to the heat by day and the frost by night, and I will punish him and his offspring and his servants for their iniquity. So he was told, you're not going to have anyone to sit on the throne of David. Well, in between chapter 36 and 37, a number of years have gone by Nebuchadnezzar came, he conquered Jerusalem, he took away captives, he he killed Jehoiakim. Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, is made king in his place because Jequioakim was judged by God. So even though the words of Jeremiah had been fulfilled precisely, And even though Jehoiakim's defiance of the Word of God had cost him dearly, still we see that Zedekiah Another son of the righteous Josiah. Rebe Josiah was a good king, a reforming king. He was a man who honored the Lord. So he had one son to bat, another son who's also bad. They will not listen, neither the king, nor his servants, nor the people of the land. None of them want to listen to the words of Jeremiah the prophet. Why? Because Jeremiah is not telling them what they want to hear. He insists on telling them the truth. People don't want to hear the truth if it doesn't align with what they want to hear. That's a principle of humanity that continues to this day. People want to hear what they want to hear. They want to hear good things. They want to hear happy things. They want to hear pleasant things. They want to hear helpful things. They don I want to hear messages of doom and gloom and judgment If you tell them, well, look, there's really no hope here, it's it's not a good situation, there's there's no good options here. People don't want to hear that. They want to hear something different. Uh and so they don't they don't want to listen to Jeremiah. But it's interesting. That even though they don't want to listen to Jeremiah, after some time, they send word to Jeremiah saying, please pray for us to the Lord our God. This is not unusual among unbelievers that they don't want to go to church, they don't want to hear the gospel, they don't want to hear about Christianity. But If they're in a bad situation, sometimes they'll ask Christians to pray for them. Would you pray for, you know, my mom has cancer. Would you pray because my son got into a car accident? Would you ask your church to pray? People who don't go to church, people who don't really believe, maybe they say they believe. I'm sure that Zedekiah and the officials would have said they worshiped the Lord, but they didn't really want to hear the Word of God. But they did want prayer Prayer that they would be delivered from the hand of the Chaldeans, from the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. And shortly after this, the army of Pharaoh comes out of Egypt. Judah have a history of alliances with Egypt. So Egypt is coming out, and it looks like hey they're gonna fight against the Chaldeans, so maybe this will be good. Well The word of the Lord comes clearly through Jeremiah. Don't trust in Pharaoh's army. It's going to return to its own land. Human help cannot accomplish what the Lord alone can accomplish. And certainly human help cannot undo the need for repentance, the need to seek the Lord. Human health cannot undo the judgment of God. So Judah and Jerusalem, they're under the judgment of God. They look for human help in the form of the Egyptians, and it doesn't work. And Jeremiah tells them it's not going to work, even before it doesn't work, and he tells them in very strong language He says, look, first of all, Pharaoh's army, they're gonna go back to Egypt. They're not even gonna they're not even gonna stick around and fight for very long. But even if you yourselves would somehow be able to go out and defeat this whole army of the Chaldeans, which is an absurd thought. The little army of Judah and Jerusalem would be able to fight against the great Chaldees. He said, even if you were to defeat the whole army, and even if there were only wounded men, They would all rise up and they'd burn the city with fire. In other words, this city is toast. It is done for. And it's because of the judgment of God. And this is too much. The people don't want to hear this. They're trying to put hope in Egypt. And they don't want to hear this message of doom and gloom while they have the spark of hope in Egypt. And so they're able to sort of catch Jeremiah doing something that might make him look like he's disloyal. He's just going to go out to Benjamin, the land of Benjamin where his people are from, where he has territory and he's going to receive his portion. This may be the field that he purchased back in chapter 32, maybe. But basically he's just going home and he's going to receive something. Well, the guard at the gate says, Yeah, you're gonna desert to the Chaldeans. Because the Chaldeans at this point they're turning away and they're moving away from Jerusalem. to go fight the Egyptians and they see Jeremiah leaving the city and they say, you know, you're going to go out and join the Chaldeans. Now Jeremiah has no desire to join the Chaldeans, but See, people who don't believe the Word of God, people who don't understand the Word of God, they're locked into a secular way of thinking. They're locked into a this world only way of thinking. So they can only think in terms of political power and political alliances and self-preservation and self-advantage. And so in the mind of Erijah, this century, he's thinking, Jeremiah is prophesying success for the Chaldeans. and doom and gloom for Jerusalem. Now he doesn't really believe that these are words for the Lord. He thinks this is just Jeremiah talking. So it must be that Jeremiah really wants to have the the Chaldeans win and then he's gonna go be with the Chaldeans. He wants to be on the winning side. You think he's he's thinking only in terms of human political calculation and so he completely misunderstands Jeremiah's actions. Christians are often misunderstood and ridiculed by the world or rejected by the world because we speak as if God is real and as if his word is truth. And as if we actually believe it. And the world doesn't take any of that seriously. They think that God is just something to make you feel better about yourself, some way to maybe have a better life. uh they s sort of put it in religion like you know some people are really into sports and some people are really into into you know um vacationing and some people are really into religion. It's sort of their thing. They don't really take it seriously. And so they misunderstand when believers talk. as though God is real and though his word is powerful. And they ridicule, in this case, they do a lot more than ridicule. They actually beat Jeremiah and they imprison him. in a sort of a a dungeon prison in the house of Jonathan the Secretary. So don't think because he's in a house that's been made into a prison that it's a comfortable thing. No, it's a it's a cell. In the dungeon. It's underground, it's dark, it's damp, it's barren. That's where they're putting him. And Even from there, King Zedekiah, this has been many days, so probably by this time the Egyptians had already turned around and gone back home. King Zedekiah is panicked now because the Chaldeans are coming back to Jerusalem, and he says, Is there any word from the Lord? Thinking maybe there's been a change of mind. And Jeremiah says the same thing he's been saying throughout this entire book: you shall be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon Nothing new, same message, it didn't change because you wanted it to. It's the truth of God and it does not change But then he also says, What wrong have I done? And perhaps Zedekiah hoping to win a little bit of favor. with the Lord. Perhaps hoping that there might be a little bit of reprieve if he shows mercy to the Lord's prophet He gives orders for Jeremiah to be taken out of this dungeon cell and instead to be put in the court of the guard, which is a much more uh uh pleasant place to be kept. It's still prison. But it's much more kinda like we would associate with prison where you're above ground and there's daylight, uh, and you're fed, right? 'Cause not in a stinking dark d damp dungeon where you might not even be fed very much. Give it a loaf of bread every day until the siege comes, until this haunting uh line right near toward the end of the chapter, until all the bread of the city was gone. Because the siege is going to last long enough that Jerusalem will be forced into surrendering because they will have nothing left, because the word of the Lord will not be Undone. What do we learn from chapter 37 of Jeremiah? Well, we learn that we need to stand firm on the Word of God. We need to believe the Word of God. We need to not compromise because the world tells us it wants to hear a different message. We need to not give in to our own human desire to want to hear only what makes us feel better about ourselves and not what is true. We need to make sure that we're well grounded in the truth of God's word and that we stand on the truth of God's word before a watching world. We need to trust that God will accomplish all of his purposes. God has made promises, God has pronounced words, judgment is coming on all the world, and final salvation is coming for all of God's people. We need to believe that. And that is far more important and far more long-lasting than the changing sands of political fortune or the changing winds of economic fortune. All those things come and go. They're under the direct hand of the Lord. Sometimes they're given for judgment, sometimes for blessing. But we know what God has spoken. Christ is coming again. The world and its evil rebellion against God will be judged finally and absolutely, and all of God's people will be saved finally and absolutely. Absolutely. We need to stand on that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word, which is truth. Thank you for your son, who is the embodiment and the fulfillment of your word, and who reigns forevermore. Keep us loyal to King Jesus. Keep us standing on the Word of God. Keep us striving for your kingdom and your glory and your purposes for our lives. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Jeremiah 37. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 38. Hope you can join me then. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.