Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Our fourth day of our twenty-ninth week brings us to this second half of Luke 21, where we're going to be asking this important question, one that we probably don't think about very often, but that is, why was Jerusalem destroyed in AD seventy? Jerusalem destroyed, the temple destroyed, the temple never rebuilt ever since then, two thousand years later. Why? That's what we're going to be asking today. Let's ask the Lord's help as we go to his word. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It's perfect in every way. Thank you for your son. Who is the Word of God made flesh and the one our hearts need, we pray that you would teach us today and grow us in our knowledge of Christ and our walk with Him. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 21, 20 to 38. But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation has come near. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are inside the city depart, and let not those who are out in the country enter it, for these are days of vengeance, to fulfil all that is written. Alas for women who are pregnant, and for those who are nursing infants in those days, for there will be great distress upon the earth and wrath against this people They will fall by the edge of the sword and be laid captive among all nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled underfoot by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. And there will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth distress of nations in perplexity because of the roaring of the sea and the waves. people fainting with fear and with foreboding of what is coming on the world, for the powers of the heavens will be shaken And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. Now, when these things begin to take place, straighten up and raise your heads, because your redemption is drawing near And he told them a parable. Look at the fig tree, and all the trees. As soon as they come out in leaf, you see for yourselves and know that summer is already near. So also when you see these things taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all has taken place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. But watch yourselves Lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap. For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth. But stay awake at all times praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are going to take place and to stand before the Son of Man. And every day he was teaching in the temple, but at night he went out and lodged on the mount called Alabet. And early in the morning all the people came to him in the temple to hear him. So why was Jerusalem destroyed in AD 70? In A. D. 70, the Roman army marched on Jerusalem and destroyed it, in response to a Jewish uprising against Rome. The temple was destroyed. It's never been rebuilt in almost 2,000 years since. It's remarkable. It's remarkable for two reasons, because first of all, the temple that stood in Jerusalem stood there for a thousand years. with a brief period of 70 years from 586 to about 515 when the temple, Solomon's temple was destroyed. But then it was rebuilt and with the exception of those seventy years it stood. Temple stood in Jerusalem for a thousand years The second reason why it's remarkable is that Jesus predicted that Jerusalem would be destroyed shortly after his life, death, and resurrection, and that it would remain trampled underfoot by the Gentiles. Not only has the temple never been rebuilt, but Jerusalem has never been fully controlled by the Jewish people since A. D. 70. These two facts make the destruction of the temple and the accompanying domination of Jerusalem by non-Jews a most remarkable historical event and a most remarkable fulfillment of prophecy. But why? Why did Jesus say that Jerusalem would be destroyed? Why has it remained under Gentile domination and how long will that last? Well, first of all, you might be wondering, do could these kinds of questions really matter? Well, I'll put it this way, these questions only matter if the significance of Jesus' death on the cross matters. And if God's kingdom purposes for the Jewish people and the nations matter. In other words, questions like this are important if the whole flow of biblical redemptive history matters. Jesus himself told a parable explaining the destruction of Jerusalem and the rise of the times of the Gentiles. It's the parable of the vineyard and the tenants. recorded in all three of the synoptic gospels. It's Matthew, Mark, and Luke. So clearly this parable was very key for the early church's understanding of the kingdom of God. In the parable The tenants who have been working the vineyard symbolize the Jewish leaders. They killed the owner's servants, who represent the prophets, and then they conspired to kill the vineyard owner's son. and heir. Jesus makes it clear in the parable that the vineyard owner will judge the wicked tenants, take away their share in the vineyard, and give it to others. And this is precisely what God did in A. D. seventy. Another way to view the destruction of the temple in A. D. 70 is the removal of a symbolic form of worship which was no longer necessary. If the Jewish people had received the message of the apostles, they would have seen that the temple was no longer needed. Jesus' body is the living temple and the cornerstone for the new and living temple of the church. His sacrifice on the cross was the once-for-all final sacrifice. So the kingdom of God has been removed from the Jewish people. Because they violently rejected God's Son and anointed King. The temple was destroyed because it's no longer needed. Still, the story of the Jewish people and their role in God's kingdom purposes is not over. God has promised to bring the Jewish people back to Himself through repentance and faith in Jesus Christ. This is why Jesus referred to our times as the times of the Gentiles and said that it would end. Jerusalem's domination by Gentiles will end when the times of the Gentiles ends. Paul explains the times of the Gentiles and the future restoration of the Jewish people in Romans 11. During the times of the Gentiles, a remnant of Jewish people are still being saved through Jesus Christ. But in the future, the nation will be turned to Christ. And thus God's purpose to bless all nations through the seed of Abraham will be completed, as he promised in Genesis 12. 3 What we see in all of this is that God's kingdom belongs to God alone. Salvation belongs to our God who sits upon the throne, as Revelation 7. 10 says. This is what all of God's people will confess and celebrate for all of eternity when we are gathered around his throne in glory. Amen. Well let's go now to Psalm 141. O Lord, I call upon you, hasten to me. Give ear to my voice when I call to you. Let my prayer be counted as incense before you, and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. Set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth. Keep watch over the door of my lips. Do not let my heart incline to any evil, to busy myself with wicked deeds, in company with men who work iniquity, and let me not eat of their delicacies Let a righteous man strike me, it is a kindness. Let him rebuke me, it is oil for my head. Let not my head refuse it. Yet my prayer is continually against their evil deeds. When their judges are thrown over the cliff, then they shall hear my words, for they are pleasant As when one ploughs and breaks up the earth, so shall our bones be scattered at the mouth of Sheol. But my eyes are toward you, O God, my Lord In you I seek refuge. Leave me not defenseless. Keep me from the trap that they have laid for me, and from the snares of evildoers. Let the wicked fall into their own nets, while I pass by safely. Heavenly Father, we look to you for the security and the refuge that we need. Satan is a liar and a murderer and a vicious opponent. He wants to distract us and to derail us and to destroy us. We need you. We need you to guard us. to guide us, to grow us, and so we ask that you would do so by your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope that these weekday devotionals are a blessing to you. If you have any feedback, please feel free to write to me. My email address is pastor at foresthill PCA. dot org, that's pastor at forest hill, one hill, not many, foresthill pca dot org. Have a blessed day in the Lord.