Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you here in the middle of our 21st week. As we're wrapping up Luke chapter 2, and we'll also be praying in response to Psalm 104. And in Luke 2, 39 to 52, we're asking, why did Jesus go to the temple at age 12? It's one of the strangest episodes from the life of Jesus, so we're going to think about that today. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is perfect, and for your son. Who is perfect in our Savior? We pray that you would guide us through your word today by your Spirit, that we might walk by faith with Jesus more closely. We pray this in His name. Amen. Luke 2, 39-52. And when they had performed everything according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their own home, their own town of Nazareth. And the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, and the favor of God was upon him. Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover. And when he was twelve years old, they went up according to the custom. And when the feast was ended, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. His parents did not know it, but supposing him to be in the group, they went a day's journey, but then they began to search for him among their relatives and acquaintances, and when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem searching for him After three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions, and all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers And when his parents saw him, they were astonished. And his mother said to him, Son, why have you treated us so? Behold, your father and I have been searching for you in great distress. And he said to them, Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my father's house? And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them, and his mother treasured up all these things in her heart. And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man Well, today we indeed come to one of the most unique and puzzling passages in the Gospels. This is really the only incident we have from the childhood of Jesus. It's also the last glimpse we have of Joseph in the life of Jesus It is also the one time we see Jesus do something that looks like it could be considered wrong. It does appear that his parents thought he was wrong. But to help us in the further study of this passage, I'm recommending some resources that are going to be linked in the description of this, or I'll send it out in the email. But I'll give you my quick assessment of this Why did Jesus do this? What did it show us about him? Well, first of all, we need to realize that Jesus was maturing and entering his spiritual manhood At age 12, boys in the Jewish culture were marked out as men before God, expected to enter into their own study of Torah, and to mature beyond the childhood basic teachings of their parents And so as Jesus was making this transition, he also passed from the temporary guardianship of Joseph into the direct care of his Heavenly Father. Secondly, Jesus was demonstrating his knowledge and understanding. Jesus was putting on display for the religious leaders in Jerusalem a sign. One of the signs of Messiah was to be great wisdom and understanding. Third, Jesus was showing his devotion to the law of God. Jesus was a devoted student of Torah, and he was demonstrating how much he had studied and how much he understood. Fourth, Jesus was showing his full humanity as well as his position as the Son of God. Jesus was truly human, and he grew in wisdom and understanding. He did so perfectly, of course, unhindered by sin. Nevertheless, he still had to learn and grow. He is showing us this here. As he grew in his understanding of Scripture, he also grew in his self-awareness as the Son of God, understanding his position and his call. And finally, the observation I want to make fifth is that Jesus was embodying Psalm 1 as the man who is blessed because he delights in the law of the Lord and meditates on it day and night. He was doing this as the man who was to redeem humanity in himself. Well, there's so much more we could say about this passage. We could speculate on what Jesus might have asked or what he might have said to these leaders. But many of these things we can't know. But we can know this. Jesus was fully human, and he grew in the knowledge of God and his word. Only he did so in a way that was much more perfect and wonderful than anyone else ever has. This should encourage us to walk in his footsteps. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 104. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, you are very great. You are clothed with splendor and majesty, covering yourself with light as with a garment. stretching out the heavens like a tent. He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters. He makes the clouds his chariot. He rides on the wings of the wind. He makes his messengers winds, his ministers a flaming fire. He set the earth on its foundations so that it should never be moved You covered it with the deep as with a garment. The waters stood above the mountains. At your rebuke they fled. At the sound of your thunder they took to flight. The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place you appointed for them. You set a boundary that they may not pass. So that they might not again cover the earth. You make springs gush forth in the valleys, they flow between hills. They give drink to every beast of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirst. Beside them the birds of the heavens dwell, they sing among the branches. From your lofty abode you water the mountains, the earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work You cause the grass to grow for the livestock, and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth, and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, and bread to strengthen man's heart. The trees of the Lord are watered abundantly, the cedars of Lebanon that He has planted. In them the birds build their nests The stork has her home in the fir trees. The high mountains are for the wild goats. The rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers. He made the moon to mark the seasons. The sun knows it's time for setting. You make darkness, and it is night, when all the beasts of the forest creep about. The young lions roar for their prey, seeking their food from God. When the sun rises, they steal away and lie down in their dens. Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening. O Lord, how manifold are your works! In wisdom you have made them all. The earth is full of your creatures. Here is the sea, great and wide, which teems with creatures, innumerable living things, both small and great. There go the ships, and Leviathan, which you formed to play in it. These all look to you, to give them their food in due season. When you give it to them, they gather it up. When you open your hand, they are filled with good things. When you hide your face, they are dismayed When you take away their breath, they die and return to the dust. When you send forth your spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground May the glory of the Lord endure forever. May the Lord rejoice in his works, who looks on the earth and it trembles, who touches the mountains and they smoke I will sing to the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the Lord. Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Praise the Lord, O my soul, praise the Lord. Lord. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, you are very great. The whole world is alive with the testimony of your greatness and your goodness All the creatures that we see thriving in the goodness of your creation, on prairies and in mountains and in oceans. And Father, you you created all these. And you care for them all. And you put them all in their place. And that means we can trust you because you are awesome in power and you are good. Grow us in wisdom and understanding, even as you grew your son Jesus. Grow us in our trust in you. In our love for you and in our worship of you. Day by day, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels day by day. Have a blessed day in the Lord.