Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, our fourth day of our 17th week And we are in Mark 10, looking at verses 1 to 31, and then praying Psalm 85. Our question today, this is kind of the marriage and family section of Mark's Gospel and we're asking the question, what did Jesus think about children? An important question for us to consider. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for your faithfulness to meet us day by day as we are in your word. seeking your face. Would you write your word on our hearts today? Would you draw us closer to Christ? It's in his name we pray. Amen. Mark 10, 1-31. And he left there and went to the region of Judea, and beyond the Jordan. And crowds gathered to him again, and again, as was his custom, he taught them. And Pharisees came up and in order to test him asked, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? He answered them, What did Moses command you? They said, Moses allowed a man to write a certificate of divorce and to send her away. And Jesus said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, he wrote you this commandment. But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh So they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. And in the house The disciples asked him again about this matter, and he said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her, and if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. And they were bringing children to him, that he might touch them. And his disciples rebuked them. But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, Let the children come to me. Do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them. And as he was setting out on his journey a man ran up and knelt before him, and asked him, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments. Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and mother. And he said, Teacher, all these I have kept from my youth. And Jesus, looking at him, loved him and said to him, You lack one thing. Go, sell all that you have, and give to the poor and you will have treasure in heaven, and come, follow me. Disheartened by the saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, how difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God. And the disciples were amazed at his words, but Jesus said to them, again, children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. And they were exceedingly astonished and said to him, Then who can be saved? Jesus looked at them and said, With man it is impossible, but not with God, for all things are possible with God Peter began to say to him, See, we have left everything and follow you. Jesus said, Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands. For my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold now, in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands with persecution and in the age to come, eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last first. Well, one of the most famous teachings of Jesus is, let the little children come to me, do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. But what did Jesus mean by this saying? How did Jesus view children? Some people having a Victorian-influenced romantic view of children believe that Jesus was asserting the purity and innocence of children. But if Jesus was trying to teach this, it contradicts what Scripture says about human nature and what Christians have taught for centuries in the doctrines of original sin and total depravity. We get the doctrine of virginal sin from Psalm 51, 12. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Or Psalm 58. 3, the wicked are estranged from the womb. They go astray from birth, speaking lies. We get the doctrine of total depravity from passages like Romans 3, 10-12. There no one is righteous, no not one. No one understands, no one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. In short, we are not born innocent, but we are born in sin and corruption. We are not just slightly sinful at times. We're sinful to the core of our being at all times. Jesus did not teach the innocence and purity of children. And any parent of a three-year-old will affirm the truth of this. As has often been said, you never have to teach children how to lie, how to disobey, how to be selfish, how to hit when angry. You do have to teach them how to tell the truth, how to obey, how to share, and how to have self-control when angry. So what did Jesus mean then? Well, Jesus' teaching on children has at least three important things for us to learn. First, children are real human beings with souls who are to be spiritually nurtured even from birth. Jesus' disciples, one of these children, kept from bothering Jesus, but Jesus saw them as fully human, as real people with real needs. Secondly, children tend to be very trusting and accepting. They believe their parents and often think their parents are capable of doing anything. We need to approach God the way that small children approach their parents with trust and awe. And third, children tend to be very sincere, with less guile and hypocrisy than adults Children do lie, but they are more transparent and less prone to being two-faced or to role-playing or hypocritical mask wearing than adults, especially young children like the ones in today's passage Jesus said that we must receive the kingdom of God like a child, as real people, trusting in God and rejecting hypocrisy Thankfully, Jesus is not saying that we must do so as innocent and pure people without sin. If that were the requirement of the kingdom, none of us would have any hope. So in a real sense, if we overly romanticize Jesus' view of children as innocent and pure, we'll actually be shutting the door of the kingdom of God in their faces and our own. No one is pure except Jesus. Praise God that he wants us to come to him, trusting him, and not hiding who we are. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 85. Written to the choirmaster, it's a psalm of the sons of Korah. Lord, you were favorable to your land. You restored the fortunes of Jacob. You forgave the iniquity of your people. You covered all their sin. You withdrew all your wrath. You turned from your hot anger. Restore us again, O God of our salvation, and put away your indignation toward us. Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger to all generations? Will you not revive us again, that your people may rejoice in you? Show us your steadfast love, O Lord, and grant us your salvation. Let me hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace to his people, to his saints. But let them not turn back to folly Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him, that glory may dwell in our land. Steadfast love and faithfulness meet. Righteousness and peace kiss each other. Faithfulness springs up from the ground, and righteousness looks down from the sky Yes, the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase. Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps away. By the way, verses 10 and 11 is one of my favorite pictures of the cross in all the poetry of the Psalms. It's just this beautiful picture of how the faithfulness of Jesus and the righteousness of God. encountered one another at the cross and peace was made. Peace was made at the cross. And that's ultimately our hope of salvation. our hope of the reality of God's steadfast love and of revival as well. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we come to you. Not pretending that we are better than we actually are, knowing our sinful hearts, but trusting you. And looking to you as the one who is able and willing to do all that we need Would you have mercy on us? And would you revive us? And would you cause us to rejoice in you, to know the depth of your steadfast love in Christ? And to walk faithfully with you as trusting children who rely on you for everything and who don't pretend Father, revive us and lead us, and feed us and protect us. And bring us day by day all the way home, trusting in you every step of the way. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels and praying the Psalms. Again, I hope today was a blessing to you, and I hope you can join us again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.