Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Our goal in these times together is to get to know our Savior better so that we can love him more and follow him more carefully and closely and faithfully by his grace and for His glory. Today we are wrapping up Matthew 10, looking at verses 34 to 42. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It is living and active. It is These are the words of eternal life. They come from you, our God and Father, our King. And we need to hear them. We need to receive them. We need to treasure them and respond to your words with faith and obedience. And this is the work of your Spirit in us. So, Holy Spirit, come and work in us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 10, 34. Do not think that I have come to bring peace on the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother in law, and a person's enemies will be those of his own household. Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. The one who receives a prophet, because he is a prophet, will receive a prophet's reward. And the one who receives a righteous person, because he is a righteous person, will receive a righteous person's reward. And whoever gives One of these little ones, even a cup of cold water, because he is a disciple, truly I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward. What did Jesus mean when he said that he did not come to bring peace but a sword? Isn't he the Prince of Peace? Didn't the angels on that first Christmas announce to the good shepherds peace on earth? Aren't we as Christians called to be peacemakers and to pursue peace with all people? Jesus is indeed the Prince of Peace. And he does indeed give us peace. Jesus said in John 16, 33, I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but take heart, I have overcome the world. And earlier in John 14, 27, he had said, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled. Neither let them be afraid. Nothing Jesus says in today's passage contradicts anything Jesus says about peace or anything the Bible says about peace. Jesus is acknowledging here very plainly that his coming into the world And the salvation he brings in his kingdom will indeed divide people against each other. Jesus is not calling his disciples to hate people or to attack people with a sword. He's saying the same thing he said earlier in this chapter, yesterday's reading, when he talked about persecution coming Following Jesus will cost you some close relationships and will bring persecution into your life. Because the world hates Jesus. And because non believers have rejected Jesus as their Lord and Savior, the gospel is and will always be an offense and a dividing line. God's kingdom will always be at war with the fallen kingdom of this world ruled by Satan. Jesus tells us that this state of hostility between his kingdom and the world means two things for us. First, we must take up our cross daily and follow him. We must be willing to die to this world and to the fame, power, success, popularity, and acclaim that this world offers. Followers of Jesus should expect none of these things from the world. But we know we have something better in Jesus. And second, those who bless God's children are indeed blessed in return. Those who step out of the world's pattern and choose to serve and love and honor God's people are seeing the truth more clearly than the rest of the world. They are blessed in serving the children of God, and such a perspective probably indicates that they are on the way to salvation themselves. In this world we must choose whether we will seek the world's acclaim or to follow Jesus faithfully. There is no middle path. Let's look at uh Psalm twenty-four now. A Psalm of David, the Earth. is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, the world, and those who dwell therein, for he has founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the rivers. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart. Who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully, he will receive blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob, Selah. Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this King of glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord, mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of Glory. Let's pray together. Oh Lord, this whole world belongs to you. The earth is yours, and everything in it, and everyone who dwells on it, we all belong to you, because you are the creator of everything and you are the sustainer of everything. Everything and yet, Lord, we know from what Jesus tells us very clearly that His coming into the world to bring salvation brings a division. Between those who acknowledge that you are the Lord and who look to you for salvation, and those who are still insisting on going their own way and trying to be their own gods. You call out to us, your people, to enter into your presence and to Submit to your lordship over our lives. You are the King of glory. We must open up the gates of your church, of our homes. of our lives, that the King of Glory may come in, that we might take up our cross daily and follow Jesus. That we might serve your people in love, that we might stand for the truth. You are the one. Who is eternal, who is steadfast, who is immovable, who is the God of gods, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords May we worship, serve, follow, trust you and you alone. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for today's Walking with Jesus and the Gospels. I hope you can join me tomorrow, and as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.