Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are in John chapter 11. In the middle part of this chapter, this great chapter about the raising of Lazarus. And today we're going to see the raising of Lazarus from the dead, and we're going to consider the question, how powerful is the voice of Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son into the world to be our Savior. He is King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the sovereign and holy one. We want to see him more clearly in your word this morning. So show us Christ that we might trust him more. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. John 11, 28. When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews, who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her. Supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Now, when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, She fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, And the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. So the Jews said, See how he loved him. But some of them said, Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me. But I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. Sometimes I wonder if we really believe Jesus. I mean, really, do we believe that he is who he says he is? Do we believe that he is able to do what the gospels say he did? We find this actually in the Gospels themselves. People encounter Jesus, people who know Jesus, people who spend time with Jesus. still don't seem to believe that he is who he said he is, that he is who even they said he is, right? Peter had called Jesus the Christ, the Son of the living God. Minutes later, when Jesus talks about going to Jerusalem and dying and rising again, Peter rebukes him and says, Far be it from you, Lord! You can't rebuke the Lord who is the Son of the Living God, can you? Well, today Both Mary and Martha had said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, our brother would not have died. We heard Martha say it yesterday. We see Mary saying it today. And yet, Martha, who had a beautiful profession of faith that we saw yesterday, I believe you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world, when Jesus says Take away the stone, Martha intervenes and says, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he's been dead four days. Like, do you really know what you're doing, O son of God? Really? Now we can we can shrug our shoulders and shake our heads at Peter and Martha, but we do the same thing. We do the same thing. We say that Jesus came from heaven to earth in love for us to save us from sin and eternal hell. But we get really stressed and anxious if we don't think we're going to have enough money to pay our bills. We trust God for our lives and for our souls and for our eternity. But we don't trust him when we run into bad traffic on our way to something and we're afraid that we're going to be late. Or we survey the political scene in America and we get stressed out and overwhelmed. Or We are concerned about our children instead of trusting them to the Lord. One thing that cuts through the doubt One thing that cuts through the questioning and the unbelieving is the voice of Jesus. When Jesus spoke, Lazarus came forth The voice of Jesus is powerful and effective, just like we hear the voice of God in creation in Genesis 1. John is intentionally doing this, by the way. He begins his gospel with, in the beginning was the Word. Right? The voice of Jesus is the voice of God. He's wanting you to go back to the original in the beginning and to hear the voice of God, the word of God saying, Let there be light, and there was light. And, you know, let there be dry land, and there was dry land, and let the land bring forth plants and very veg bearing vegetation, and the land brings forth plants bringing bearing vegetation. He points us back at the beginning of his gospel to the beginning of creation in Genesis 1, because he wants us to see that that's the voice of Jesus. That's the voice of Jesus. When we doubt, when I have doubted, where do I go to cut through the cloud and the mist of my doubt to Scripture? to the voice of Jesus, to the Word of God, living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, Hebrews 4. 12 tells us. When I go to Scripture, either remembering it from memory, praying it, reading it, listening to a sermon, God cuts through the doubt. The haze, the fuzzy unbelief, and the voice of Jesus speaks truth. The voice of Jesus is powerful, despite my weak faith His word still speaks with power despite my wavering and my uncertainty. Now That doesn't mean that I get everything I want. It doesn't mean, oh, I read scripture and then all of a sudden there's thousands of dollars in my bank account and I never have to worry about any financial thing ever again. Doesn't mean that I don't have thousands of extra dollars put into my account to give me a cushion. It does mean that I don't really need to worry about, in fact, I shouldn't be worrying about the financial things. I should be trusting the Lord for them. If something happens to me that I didn't expect, that I wasn't looking for, that I don't welcome, that I don't understand, it is still under the control of the sovereign king of the universe, the Lord Jesus, who's the same Jesus who laid down his life willingly in love for me, and he is not asleep at the wheel. He is not taking a nap and letting things slip through into my life that he doesn't intend. Some people have spoken about faith. As though faith is somehow all about what I say powerfully to God to compel God to do what I want him to do. So if I have enough faith or if I say the right words or if I formulate the positive confession of faith, then I my voice will be powerful enough to speak into existence. the things that are not, as if somehow I'm God. That's not what faith is. Faith is open hands to receive what God gives. It's open ears to hear what God says. It's an open heart to believe the promises of God. Faith is primarily a passive posture that receives from God and then goes forth and does what God calls us to do. Yes, faith acts, faith obeys, faith does But it's not a an attempt to manipulate God or to compel God to do our will. It's hearing the voice of God, believing the voice of God, and acting on the voice of God. So for example, here in today's passage When Jesus said, take away the stone, Martha objected, but guess what? They still took away the stone. Because Jesus said, Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? And it's not so much because the strength of her belief is going to create the glory of God, but rather if she's receiving what Jesus is coming to do by rolling away the stone in obedience to his word Then she's going to see the glory of God. In her case, it was her brother come back to life. Now later, of course, Lazarus would die because we all die. But she could know at that point, because Jesus had already raised risen from the dead himself, that Lazarus was going to live forever, just like she herself would live forever. God speaks in his word, in his son, with a power that is unopposable. It is undeniable. It is unquenchable. It is unconquerable. Will we believe? Will we read? Will we hear? Will we act? In faith. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your powerful voice, and thank you for your wonderful son. Please continue to speak to us, and please give us the faith to act in obedience in response to your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope today's devotional lesson was a help to you. Please join me tomorrow as we wrap up John 11. Have a blessed day in the Lord.