Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with me today. Week 22, day two, we're in the Gospel of Luke, and we're going to be looking at Luke 4, 31 to 44 today and asking the question, what was the point? of Jesus' miracles. What was the point of his miracles? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God, thank you so much for your word and for the privilege it is to be able to gather together around your word day by day. We pray that you would speak to us through your word. We pray that you would write it on our hearts. We pray that you would draw us closer to Christ and grow us in Him. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, Luke 4, starting in verse 31. And he went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And he was teaching them on the Sabbath, and they were astonished at his teaching, for his word possessed authority. And in the synagogue there was a man who had the spirit of an unclean demon. And he cried out with a loud voice, Ha What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent and come out of him. And when the demon had thrown him down in their midst, he came out of him, having done him no harm. And they were all amazed, and said to one another, What is this word? For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out. And reports about him went out into every place in the surrounding region. And he arose and left the synagogue and entered Simon's house. Now Simon's mother in law was ill with a high fever, and they appealed to him on her behalf. And he stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her, and immediately she rose and began to serve them. Now, when the sun was setting, all those who had any sick with various diseases brought them to him, and he laid his hands on every one of them and healed them And demons also came out of many, crying, You are the Son of God. But he rebuked them, and would not allow them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ. And when it was day, he departed, and went into a desolate place. And the people sought him and came to him, and would have kept him from leaving them But he said to them, I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns as well, for I was sent for this purpose. And he was preaching in the synagogues of Judea. Why did Jesus perform miracles? Many Christians would answer to show that he was God. And that may be part of the explanation, but I actually think it misses the bigger picture. Many Old Testament prophets performed miracles. Moses called down ten plagues on Egypt and part of the Red Sea. He was not God. He was not trying to prove that he was. He was God's appointed representative to confront Pharaoh, which he did. Joshua was empowered by God to make the sun stand still in the sky, but he wasn't God. Elijah and Elisha also performed many miracles, some of which were similar to those done by Jesus. But again, these miracles did not prove that these prophets were God incarnate, because they weren't. Romans 1. 4 tells us that Jesus was declared to be the Son of God in power, according to the Spirit of Holiness, by his resurrection from the dead, not by miracles. So why do miracles? It was partly to demonstrate who he was, but more specifically to show that he was the Christ. the long-awaited anointed one, the Messiah. He acted as God's chosen one, anointed with the power of the Holy Spirit. His miracles also authenticated his teaching. Jesus taught with great authority, and then he validated that authority by casting out demons, healing the sick. His actions pointed to the validity of his words. It was his preaching that was actually most important for people to hear. He says in verse 43, I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns as well, for I was sent for this purpose. So while Jesus did miracles, the purpose for which he was sent was to preach the good news of the kingdom of God. After all, a blind man might receive sight and see for a lifetime, but if he receives the kingdom, he will see forever. Finally, Jesus' miracles demonstrated his love and anticipated his full kingdom reign. The Gospels tell us that Jesus was moved with compassion for the crowds of people. He was moved by their ignorance of God's kingdom and their need for his truth, but he was also moved by their suffering. Jesus loved the people and served their physical and spiritual needs. He also gave people a preview of what life will be like in his eternal, glorious kingdom when all sickness, all blindness, disability, demonic possession will be done away with. forever. We can have confidence that Jesus is the Christ, that his word is truth, that his heart of loving And caring for people is strong and consistent, and that his coming again will end all suffering forever because of his great miracles. To think that such authority and such power is exercised for us today at the right hand of God, for our salvation? It's amazing. And that should lead us to worship. to gratitude, to confidence, humility, and deeper discipleship. All of this is validated for us by the miracles of Jesus. Jesus. Well let's go to Psalm 107, which speaks to us of the miracle of salvation and how God saves his people from a variety of different disasters, and it's a great Thanksgiving Psalm. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he has redeemed from trouble, and gathered in from the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south. Some wandered in desert wastes, finding no way to a city to dwell in, hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble. and he delivered them from their distress. He led them by a straight way until they reached a city to dwell in. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man, for he satisfies the longing soul, and the hungry soul he fills with good things. Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, prisoners, in affliction and in irons, for they had rebelled against the words of God and spurned the counsel of the Most High. So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor, so they fell down with none to help. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and burst their bonds apart. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works. to the children of man, for he shatters the doors of bronze and cuts in two the bars of iron. Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction. They loathed any kind of food. And they drew near to the gates of death. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He sent out his word and healed them and delivered them from their destruction. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love. for his wondrous works to the children of man, and let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving, and tell of his deeds and songs of joy. Some went down to the sea in ships, doing business on the great waters. They saw the deeds of the Lord, his wondrous works in the deep. For he commanded and raised the stormy wind, which lifted up the waves of the sea, they mounted up to heaven, they went down to the depth Their courage melted away in their evil plight. They reeled and staggered like drunken men, and were at their wit's end. Then They cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He made the storm be still, and the ways of the sea were hushed. Then they were glad that the waters were quiet, and he brought them to their desired haven. Let them thank the Lord. for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man. Let them extol him in the congregation of the people and praise him in the assembly of the elders He turns rivers into a desert, springs of water into thirsty ground, a fruitful land into a salty waste, because of the evil of its inhabitants. He turns a desert into pools of water, a parchland into springs of water, and there he lets the hungry dwell, and they establish a city to live in. They sow fields and plant vineyards, and get a fruitful yield. By his blessing they multiply greatly, and he does not let their livestock diminish. When they are diminished and brought low, through oppression, evil, and sorrow, he pours contempt on princes. and makes them wander in trackless wastes. But He raises up the needy out of affliction, and makes their families like flocks, the upright see it and are glad, and all wickedness Shuts its mouth. Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things. Let them consider the steadfast love of the Lord. It's one of my favorite Thanksgiving psalms. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we have such good reason. to consider your steadfast love and to give you thanks. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. We have been in trouble and distress. Some of it from enemies who attack us, Satan and the world and our flesh, some of it just from our own foolishness, our own wrongdoing. We've wandered away from you. We've suffered the consequences of our own sin. But when we've been turned to you by your gracious Holy Spirit, when we've cried out to you, you've been faithful to deliver us. You've been faithful to provide for us. You've been faithful to bring us to yourself. You've been faithful to bring us into your kingdom where we find rest and peace. And life and living water for our thirsty souls, and freedom from captivity, and protection from our enemies. And the miracles of Jesus confirm this for us He who sits at your right hand, ever-living to make intercession for us, he who is our Lord and Savior is the same one who cast out demons, who calmed the sea, who raised the dead. who gave sight to the blind and speech to the mute. You, O Lord Jesus, are our great and powerful King. Rule over us. Protect us, guide us, be glorified in our lives today. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks once again for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was a blessing and an encouragement to you. It is to me. I appreciate you being here. It motivates me to keep doing these, which is a blessing to my own soul. So thank you for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.