Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you. We are in John chapter 7. today, looking at verses 1 to 21 and asking, why didn't Jesus' brothers believe in him? Let's ask God's help as we turn to His Word today. Heavenly Father, we are blessed to know you. We are blessed to be able to study your word every day, to have time with you. We pray that you would bless our time in John 7 today. May your Holy Spirit give us understanding of your word and fresh insight into Jesus that we might love him and follow him more closely. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen John chapter 7, verses 1 to 31. After this Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. Now, the Jews' feast of boots was at hand. So his brothers said to him, Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works you are doing. For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly If you do these things, show yourself to the world. For not even his brothers believed in him Jesus said to them, My time is not yet come, but your time is always here. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I testify about it that its works are evil. You go up to the feet. I am not going up to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come. After saying this, he remained in Galilee. But after his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but in private. The Jews were looking for him at the feast and saying, Where is he? And there was much muttering about him among the people. While some said he is a good man, others said no, he is leading the people astray. Yet for fear of the Jews, no one spoke openly of him About the middle of the feast Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching. The Jews therefore marvelled, saying, How is it that this man has learning when he has never studied? So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. If anyone's will is to do God's will, He will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory But the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no falsehood. Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill me The crowd answered, You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you? Jesus answered them, I did one work, and you all marvel at it Moses gave you circumcision, not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers, and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath. If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, So that the law of Moses may not be broken. Are you angry with me, because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well? Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment. Some of the people of Jerusalem therefore said, Is not this the man whom they seek to kill? And here he is, speaking openly, and they say nothing to him. Can it be that the authorities really know that this is the Christ? But we know where this man comes from, and when the Christ appears, no one will know where he comes from. So Jesus proclaimed, as he taught in the temple, You know me, and you know where I come from. But I have not come of my own accord. He who sent me is true, and him you do not know. I know him, for I come from him, and he sent me. So they were seeking to arrest him But no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. Yet many of the people believed in him. They said, When the Christ appears, will he do more signs than this man has done In the opening of today's passage in John 7, we encounter one of the most surprising and puzzling things in the Gospels. Recorded in all the Gospels, really, is this truth that the brothers of Jesus, the younger half-brothers of Jesus, did not believe in him during his earthly ministry. Matthew, Mark, and Luke all record times when Jesus brothers tried to stop him in his public ministry. And John here records his brothers taunting him and daring him to get into a public confrontation with the Jewish religious leaders in Jerusalem. So, I mean, what gives? Really? Why didn't his brothers believe in him? He was their older brother. They grew up in the same household. These men were the natural sons of Joseph and Mary. They were probably in their twenties, if Jesus was in his early thirties, they were his younger half brothers, yeah, because you know, Joseph was their biological father. He wasn't Jesus' biological father. They ha they had to know that geo Joseph wasn't the biological father of Jesus. I would imagine that they would have heard the stories of their mom's miraculous conception of Jesus, as a virgin birth. the visit of the angel, story in Bethlehem, all that they probably would have heard, but obviously they didn't believe it. They probably suspected that their parents lied to cover up some ugly reality. You know, sometimes parents do lie to their kids because they don't want them to know know the truth. And as kids grow up and get older, they begin to see through the lies. And maybe that's what his brothers were thinking, like, oh yeah, this whole story about mom being a virgin and the visit of an angel and the trip to Bethlehem and the time in Egypt like all that that's that just they're covering it up. Obviously there was a scandal that's why they had to leave town and go to Bethlehem and they had to go into Egypt and hide. There was a scandal Some something's going on with Jesus' birth. And so perhaps that resentment over his parents their parents not really telling them the truth cause them to be bitter toward their older brother. And even though Jesus was literally perfect, sinless He's still their older brother. And they don't believe that he's the Messiah, that he's the Son of God. And so all four gospel writers record this. And that's really stunning. Because actually, by the time the Gospels are written, and put into circulation. By that time, it was actually well known in the early church that Jesus' younger half-brothers are believers. And our leaders within the church, especially James and Jude, the books of James and Jude that we have at the end of the old and end of the New Testament, they're written by the younger brothers, by these brothers right here. the ones who are taunting him and the ones who are provoking him. They later go on to write scripture as followers of Jesus, as leaders within the church. And so knowing that they were not believers when he was in his earthly ministry should prompt a question. What changed their mind? Why would these guys go from thinking their parents were lying? Jesus wasn't the Messiah, he was someone to be taunted and provoked, someone to be stopped if possible To then writing books of the Bible, like leading the church in Jerusalem, risking their own lives? For this man that they didn't believe in earlier? What gives? How did they go from unbelief to committed discipleship? Well, the key to their conversion. lies in one fact, recorded for us in 1 Corinthians 15 and elsewhere, and that is that after the bodily resurrection of Jesus, they knew that Jesus died on the cross. They were probably there or close by. Their mother was certainly there at the foot of the cross when Jesus died. They knew that he was buried in the tomb. But after the bodily resurrection of Jesus, Jesus appeared to them. He appeared to James. He appeared to Jude. He showed himself to them. They were probably in the crowd of the five hundred that he appeared to at one time. Seeing him alive again after his crucifixion made them believers and the record of their unbelief in the Gospels is now a powerful testimony to the reality-upsing, life-transforming, glorious truth of the resurrection. Because only the resurrection could change these brothers from what we see in John's Gospel to what we see in the early church. It's a great proof of the resurrection of Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word and thank you for giving us these kinds of proofs that we can look at and understand that that strengthen our faith. They don't, of course, take away the need for faith. We still need to believe. what your word says, but it gives us reason to believe, and it allows us to believe with an understanding mind. So strengthen our faith and continue to grow us. May we be like James and Jude and the others and be courageous servants of Jesus and proclaimers of his gospel and leaders even in the church as you give us the ability to do so. So we pray this in Jesus' name and for his glory in your church. Amen. Alright, well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope you can join me again tomorrow, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.