Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Day four of week 16 brings us to the second half of Mark chapter 7. We're going to be looking at verses 24 to 37 and asking this question, how does Jesus treat the outsider and the hopeless? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word and for the privilege it is for us to be able to gather together and be in your word day after day. Please write your word on our hearts today. Please lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. Please lead us to walk in your word by faith and to walk with Jesus every day of our lives. In his name we pray. Amen. Mark 7, 24-37. And from there he arose and went away to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered a house, and did not want anyone to know, yet he could not be hidden. But immediately a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, heard of him, and came and fell down at his feet Now the woman was a Gentile, a Syrophoenician by birth, and she begged him to cast the demon out of her daughter. And he said to her, Let the children be fed first, for it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. But she answered him, Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs under the table eat the children's crumbs. And he said to her, For this statement you may go your way. The demon has left your daughter And she went home and found the child lying in the bed and the demon gone. Then he returned from the region of Tyre, and went through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee, in the region of the Decapolis. And they brought to him a man who was deaf and had a speech impediment, and they begged him to lay his hand on him. And taking him aside from the crowd privately, he put his fingers into his ears, and after spitting, touched his tongue. And looking up to heaven he sighed, and said to him, Epitha, that is, be opened. And his ears were opened, and his tongue was released, and he spoke plainly. And Jesus charged them to tell no one. But the more he charged them, the more zealously they proclaimed it. And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak We have two wonderful stories of Jesus before us that illustrate to us how he treated the outsider and the hopeless. Jesus is known as the friend of sinners, which was actually intended as an insult against him if you look in Matthew 11. 19 and Luke 7. 34. Yesterday, we explored how Jesus ran into conflict with the religious leaders in Jerusalem over the issue of human traditions. Another reason why Jesus was rejected and despised by the leadership in Israel was because he did not choose to bless the right kind of people. In today's passage, we see Jesus with an outsider and a hopeless man. We see the power, wisdom, and compassion of Jesus on full display. First, a gentile woman. A non-Jew outsider has a demon-possessed daughter who needs deliverance. At first, Jesus' response to her seems cold, unfeeling, even harsh, but He was actually drawing out her humility and faith for public display and commendation. He was teaching his disciples that humility and faith are more important than ethnicity. Then we see Jesus in the area of the Decapolis, a heavily Gentile-influenced area in the north of Israel. Here he encounters a man who is deaf. and mute, a difficult combination that was considered impossible to heal, whereas Jesus had cast the demon from the Gentile woman's daughter from a distance Here Jesus gets very hands-on with this man. He takes him aside privately, puts his fingers in the man's ears, spits, touches his tongue, and says, Ephatha, be opened. Jesus could have healed this man from a distance or with a word, but he did not. You notice Jesus almost never healed people in the same way twice? He was as unpredictable as he was powerful, which made him dangerous, impossible to either predict or control. But Jesus' power is matched only by his compassion. He healed the deaf and mute man completely, enabling him to hear and speak plainly. Jesus welcomes the most needy among us. Those who've been hurt, rejected, cast out, left alone, who've lost hope. Jesus reaches out in different ways through different means He calls people to life, to forgiveness, to healing, to restoration and reconciliation with God. And today, he most often does so through his people. who speak his word, and who pray for the lost, the outcast, and the hopeless. Are we being that kind of people? Psalm 80 to the choir master, according to Lilies, a testimony of Asaph, a psalm. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel You who lead Joseph like a flock, you who are enthroned upon the cherubim, shine forth before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might and come to save us. Restore us, O God, let your face shine that we may be saved. O Lord God of hosts, how long will you be angry with your people's prayers? You have fed them with the bread of tears, and given them tears to drink in full measure. You make us an object of contention for our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves. Restore us, O God of hosts, let your face shine that we may be saved. You brought a vine out of Egypt. You drove out the nations and planted it. You cleared the ground for it. It took deep root and filled the land. The mountains were covered with its shade, the mighty cedars with its branches, it sent out its branches to the sea and its shoots to the river. Why then have you broken down its walls, so that all who pass along the way pluck its fruit? The bear from the forest, the boar from the forest, ravages it, and all that move in the field feed on it. Turn again, O God of hosts, look down from heaven and see, have regard for this vine. the stock that your right hand planted. And for the Son, whom you made strong for yourself, they have burned it with fire, they have cut it down, may they perish at the rebuke of your face. But Let your hand be on the man of your right hand, the son of man whom you have made strong for yourself, then we shall not turn back from you. Give us life, and we will call upon your name. Restore us, O Lord, God of hosts, let your face shine that we may be saved. Oh Lord God Almighty, you have compassion on the outcast and the hopeless. And there are times, Lord God, when we look at your church and the situation does seem hopeless. We're compromised, we're worldly, we're materialistic, we're lukewarm. We're political. We don't have a heart for the outcast and the hopeless like Jesus showed us We don't. We're selfish, we're self-absorbed, we're whiny, we complain. Lord have mercy on us. Lord, cause your face to shine upon us and be gracious to us, that we might be saved, that we might be restored. to spiritual strength and vitality, that we might repent well, that we might love well. For your glory, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels again. I hope you can join us tomorrow as we wrap out week 16. And um I hope people bless stay in the Lord.