Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemel. From Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with us here as we begin our 16th week together in this wonderful almost 500-year-old catechism, which is just a set of questions and answers that lead us through a set of doctrine, a set of teachings. In this case, we're we're looking at the gospel. We're looking at the teachings of Scripture. This is coming out of the Reformation. in Germany in Heidelberg fifteen sixty three and yet it's been translated into more languages than almost anything else and it's been used around the world by different cultures at different times because the one true gospel remains the same And it applies to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation throughout history around the whole world. And so we are we're here finding gospel comfort in the Heidelberg Catechism. And today We're continuing in a section that covers the Apostles' Creed, and we come to a very controversial line in the Apostles' Creed of He descended into hell. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us, for your gift of salvation through your Son, Jesus Christ. for the gospel comfort that we find belonging to Christ. Thank you that you lead us out of our guilt and by your grace to a place where we can give you thanks and live a life of gratitude and joy and comfort in the Lord. We pray that you would teach us today and lead us by your will for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, we are. Here in the Heidelberg Catechism, and we've been in this section that deals with the humility and the death of Christ from the Apostles' Creed. So question forty had asked, why was it necessary for Christ to humble himself even unto death? And the answer was, because of the justice and truth of God, satisfaction for our sins could be made in no other way than by the death of the Son of God. And then A couple days later we asked question 42, since Christ has died for us, why do we still have to die? And this was an important one. Our death is not a payment for our sins But it puts an end to sin and is an entrance into eternal life. This is one of the ways in which this catechism comforts us is by reminding us that because Jesus has already paid for all of our sins with his precious blood which we heard about in the very first question and answer. When we die, it's not a payment for our sins, but it puts an end to sin And it's an entrance to eternal life. And last time we were looking at what further benefit do we receive from Christ's sacrifice and death on the cross? In addition to having our sins Cleansed and being justified, what are the further benefits we receive? Well, there's a great answer here we looked at last time. Through Christ's death Our old nature is crucified, put to death, and buried with him, so that the evil desires of the flesh may no longer reign in us But that we may offer ourselves to him as a sacrifice of thankfulness. And then today we come to question 44. Why is there added, he descended into hell? The answer here, in my greatest sorrows and temptations, I may be assured and comforted. that my Lord Jesus Christ, by his unspeakable anguish, pain, terror, and agony, which he endured throughout all his sufferings, but especially on the cross has delivered me from the anguish and torment of hell So again, this catechism is helping us to explore what I said was already the most controversial line in the whole of the Apostles' Creed. He descended into hell. Jesus paid for all of our sins on the cross. He cried out on the cross, it is finished. And at the end of that He cried out to his father, Into your hands I commit my spirit. And before that he had said to the thief on the cross who had professed faith in him, He said, I tell you the truth, to day you will be with me in paradise So if our sins were finished being paid for on the cross, and the thief on the cross is told, You'll be with me today in paradise, and if Jesus at the end says, Into your hands I commit my spirit, And we know the Father answered that prayer from the Son. Why does it say he descended into hell? Well, in the early church, when the Apostles' Creed was being crafted, This actually, maybe hell is not the best translation for this because it was Hades in the original Greek. He descended into Hades, which is the realm of the dead. And there were some people in the early church who thought, well, because our sins deserve not only death but also hell, Jesus would have to suffer not only death but also hell, and so then after he died he would have to descend into hell to further suffer the full penalty that we deserve, which is not only death but also hell. That was one school of thought. There was another school of thought that said, no, he descends into Hades So that he can set the captives free. Like Ephesians 4 says that he he led a host of captives captivity, took captivity captive or led a host of captives. and he distributed gifts to men. So the second view is called the Christus Victor view, or that Christ the Victor is the one who went to Hades. to the saints that were waiting for him to come and he released them from prison and he brought them into paradise along with the thief that day that he died on the cross. So he would have descended into Hades not as a punishment, but as a victorious conqueror. Well, we don't know exactly which of those views was really behind the crafting of the Apostles' Creed, and Scripture is not super clear about that. What's clear is that Jesus did not suffer for our sins after he died on the cross. All the suffering he endured was on the cross. And what is also true is that he endured hell for us on the cross because what is hell? Hell is suffering the just punishment, the wrath of God. And he suffered the just punishment, the wrath of God. He suffered unspeakable anguish, pain, terror, and agony. in his sufferings and especially on the cross. And because he took that, he took that upon himself, what we receive instead Is grace, is mercy. And we've been delivered from all the anguish and torments of hell. That's why we don't believe in purgatory. There's not a temporary place for believers to go where we finish paying for our sins or finish being purged of our sins. Christ already paid for all of our sins with his precious blood on the cross, where he suffered the torments of hell for us. And so there's no more suffering for Christ after he gave up his spirit to the Lord, and there's no more suffering for us for sin. as punishment, as wrath. There are still consequences of sin. If you sin, there are still consequences that come. They're still living in a fallen world because our bodies have not yet been redeemed as they will be in the resurrection, but that's coming later in the Apostles' Creed. But here, so here the catechism focuses on what we know the Bible teaches for sure, and that is that Christ suffered hell for us in his sufferings, especially on the cross, and he's delivered us from it. Let's look at some scripture. Psalm 18 tells us of what Christ suffered on the cross. The cords of death encompassed me. The torrents of destruction assailed me. The cords of Sheol entangled me. The snares of death confronted me. This is a reflection, prophetically, through David in the Psalms. This is a reflection of what Christ suffered for us in his agony. That agony was really throughout his whole life, but it but it began to be concentrated when he was in the Garden of Gethsemane on the Mount of Olives the night that he was betrayed and he was praying in agony as he was beginning to suffer this anguish. the anguish of entering into the wrath of God and becoming sin for us. So in Luke twenty two we read this of our Lord on the Mount of Olives in the Garden of Gethsemane. And he came out and went, as was his custom, to the Mount of Olives, and the disciples followed him. And when he came to the place He said to them, Pray that you may not enter into temptation. And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw and knelt down and prayed, saying, Father If you are willing, remove this cup from me, nevertheless, not as my will, but yours be done. And there appeared to him an angel from heaven, strengthening him. And being in agony, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground. This is the agony, the suffering of Christ, the misery of Christ As he's becoming sin for us, as he's taking upon himself the weight of all the sins of Allah God's people, as he's going to be tried unjustly and condemned in our place, he is suffering in our place. Hebrews 5. 7 tells us about Jesus. In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death. And he was heard because of his reverence. Jesus suffered loud cries and tears. And he was heard, he was delivered, but he suffered that for us. On the cross, we hear the Lord Jesus in Matthew 27, 46. And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabakhtani. That is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That's the first line of Psalm 22, which Psalm 22 is a great psalm to read on the sufferings and the agonies of Christ on the cross. But he was God forsaken. He was forsaken of God because he became sin for us, and he was the object of the wrath of God and no longer his love. That is the power and the love of our Savior to deliver us from our sin. And one more. 1 John 4. 10. In this is love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. I really could go into every verse in the Bible that talks about propitiation because when we say that Jesus is the propitiation, that means he suffered hell for us. in that he was the object of God's wrath. Because propitiation is the sacrifice that satisfies divine wrath. Propitiates, satisfies God's wrath. So all of God's wrath was poured out on Christ. on the cross so that we never have to experience it. So again, back to our catechism question 44. Why is there added he descended into hell? In my greatest sorrows and temptations, I may be assured and comforted that my Lord Jesus Christ By his unspeakable anguish, pain, terror, and agony, which he endured throughout all his sufferings, but especially on the cross, has delivered me from the anguish and torment of hell. Amen. That is good news. That is gospel comfort if there is any. You will never be punished by God for your sins. You may suffer consequences, natural consequences from your sin, but you will never be punished with wrath. There is no more wrath for you because Jesus took it all. Let's pray. Father in heaven, our Lord, thank you, Jesus, for dying in our place. For suffering the agonies. Thank you, Father, for pouring out your wrath upon your Son, your one and only sinless Son, so that we could be spared, because if we weren't spared, we wouldn't be able to be with you. We're so thankful and we're so humbled. Help us to live by faith. Help us to live in the joy and the comfort of knowing. That all of our sins have been paid for, that none of the wrath of God remains for us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for our studies in the Heidelberg Catechism. We're going to respond to today's Uh devotional and question forty-four by singing Jesus, thank you. The mystery of the rock I cannot remain. You the curve is only one cross Who try to be closer for me? The followers wrap the wheels that is mine, Jesus thank you. Once for everyone seated for table Jesus. By birth sacrifice I made one where we made your friend. For God is love your Christ will end the Lord. And once we are saying Jesus thank you because we have Jesus thank you once again I want to live for you. Because you come as you lost away my brilliant. Jesus praying across that by Jesus praying once I see it. Your blood. Your blood has fostered. Jesus thank you. Almost right as far Jesus thank you on me.