Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Good to be with you for our second day together in this new devotional series we have through the Gospels, one passage at a time, and then also praying through the Psalms. We're not going to be praying through all of the Psalms, but many of them, if most of them. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look today at the second half of Matthew 1 and the birth of Jesus. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Please write it on our hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 1, 18-25. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together. She was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband, Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife. For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet, behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Sometimes the beauty of great writing comes in saying a lot in a few words. Matthew's account of the birth of Jesus is not nearly as long and detailed as Luke's. but it is packed with meaning almost in every phrase and word. And so in these few verses, verses 18 to 25, I want to point out just three things that we can see together. First of all, Jesus' birth is the miraculous fulfillment. of God's promise through the prophet Isaiah in Isaiah 7. 14, which is quoted there, Behold the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. Secondly, Jesus' name indicates his mission. He will save his people from their sins. And third of all, Jesus is God with us, which is the meaning of Emmanuel. Think about how wonderful and powerful this message is. God has sent forth his son, miraculously born of a virgin, as the fulfillment of the long-awaited promises that he had given his people hundreds of years before Jesus came to save us. Not to condemn us. He saves us from our biggest problem, our sin. Jesus came to be God with us and to reconcile us to God forever. We were made to be with God, and the greatest need we have is to have God with us. But sin stands in the way. It keeps us from fellowship with the Holy God. Jesus comes as God with us. and our Savior to redeem us from our sins and reconcile us to God forever. This is the best news we could ever hear. God has sent us a Savior, His own Son. This is the heart of the Bible's message. God is with us in Jesus. Not against us or apart from us, but with us for ever. Amen. What good news. Let's turn now to Psalm 2. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. saying, Let us burst their bonds apart and cast their cords away from us. He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord holds them in derision Then he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury, saying, As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Now therefore, O kings, be Wise, be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the sun. Lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, it is not hard for us to see the nations raging. Every day we see the nations rage. Terrorists attack. Leaders mock your name. The culture excludes or derides you and your people. They don't want to be ruled by you. They want to break your cords away. The human heart is in rebellion against you, and we want to be free from your rule. But you laugh at such futility You are God. You have established your King on Mount Zion, your holy hill. King Jesus reigns forever. And he will never be shaken, and he will never be removed. And you call the nations, and you call us to stop our raging, stop our rebelling. And instead, kiss the sun, worship Jesus, Emmanuel, God with us, the Messiah, our Savior. Worship him, because blessed are all who take refuge in him. Thank you for the refuge we have in Jesus, our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for the second half of Matthew 1 and Psalm 2. We're going to move on to Matthew 2 and Psalm 3 tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.