Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 30th week together. And we come to the second half of Luke 22 today, and uh we're looking at when Jesus talks about who is the greatest and then predicts Peter's denial. And in this half of Luke 22, we're going to be asking the question, where do you find your strength and confidence? Where do you find your strength and confidence? Pray. Heavenly Father, please be our teacher today and teach us from your word by your Holy Spirit. Show us more of Jesus, our Savior, that we might know him better, that we might know his heart, and you might make us more like him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Luke twenty-two, verses twenty-four to fifty-two. A dispute arose among them as to which of them was to be regarded as the greatest. And he said to them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those in authority over them are called benefactors, but not so with you. Rather, let the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the leader as the one who serves. For who is the greater? One who reclines at table or one who serves? It is not the one who reclines at table. Is it not the one who reclines at table? But I am among you as the one who serves. You are those who have stayed with me in my trials, and I assign to you As my Father has assigned to me a kingdom, that you might eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones. judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you that he might sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you, that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. Peter said to him, Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death. Jesus said, I tell you, Peter, the rooster will not crow this day until you have denied three times that you know me. And he said to them, When I sent you out with no money bag or knapsack or sandals, did you lack anything? They said nothing He said to them, But now let the one who has a money bag take it, and likewise a knapsack, and let the one who has no sword sell his cloak and buy one, for I tell you that this scripture must be fulfilled in me. And he was numbered with the transgressors For what is written about me has its fulfillment. And they said, Lord, look, here are two swords. And he said to them, It is enough. And he came out and went, as was his custom, to the Mount of Olives. And the disciples followed him. And when he came to the place, he said to them, Pray that you may not enter into temptation. And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and knelt down and prayed, saying, Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done And there appeared to him an angel from heaven strengthening him, and being in agony, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling to the ground. And when he rose from prayer, he came to the disciples and found them sleeping for sorrow. And he said to them, Why are you sleeping? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation. While he was still speaking, there came a crowd, and the man called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He drew near to Jesus to kiss him, but Jesus said to him, Judas, would you betray the Son of Man with a kiss? And when those who were around him saw what would follow, they said, Lord, shall we strike with the sword? And one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear. But Jesus said, No more of this, and he touched his ear and healed him. Then Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders who had come out against him, Have you come out? As against a robber with swords and clubs. When I was with you day after day in the temple, you did not lay hands on me, but this is your hour and the power of darkness. Alright, so I think we're gonna stop there and we'll deal with Peter's denial tomorrow. As the time drew near for Jesus to be betrayed by Judas into the hands of his enemies He took time to pull Peter aside and warn him about Satan's desires for him. Peter, in his characteristic bravado, responded, Lord, I am ready to go with you, both to prison and to death. Now before we judge Peter too quickly or too harshly, we need to understand that he was serious. He meant what he said. Hours later he would draw his sword and cut off the ear of the servant of the high priest. Peter was a man of resolve, a man of action. While he would later deny knowing Jesus three times, he was sincere. in his desire to fight for his Lord. Jesus didn't want Peter's sword. He wanted his prayers. Rather, he wanted Peter to find confidence not in his sword, but in his prayers and in Jesus' prayers for him. Jesus told his disciples, Pray that you may not enter into temptation. While Peter was willing to draw his sword and strike, he was unable to stay awake and pray. How many of us find it easier to do almost anything? other than to pray. How many of us could spend hours laboring for the Lord, but find it hard to spend a single hour on our knees before Him? Do we think our resolve, our hard work, our expertise, and our diligence are all worth more to the Lord or to us than prayer? Jesus told his disciples to pray. This was their best weapon against temptation. Jesus told Peter that he was praying for him. This was Peter's. Best source of comfort and strength in a time of great trial. Our prayers and Jesus' prayers for us should be where we find our strength and confidence in times of trial and temptation. When we are feeling stretched and pushed, we need to resist the temptation to swing out swords. And instead drop to our knees. Let's go to Psalm 143. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Lord, the Psalm of David. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Give ear to my pleas for mercy. In your faithfulness, answer me. in your righteousness. Enter not into judgment with your servant, for no one living is righteous before you, for the enemy has pursued my soul. He has crushed my life to the ground. He has made me sit in darkness like those long dead. Therefore my spirit faints within me. My heart within me is appalled. I remember the days of old. I meditate on all that you have done. I ponder the work of your hands. I stretch out my hands to you. My soul Thirst for you like a parched land. Answer me quickly, O Lord. My spirit fails. Hide not your face from me, lest I be like those who go down to the pit. Let me hear in the morning of your steadfast love, for in you I trust. Make me know the way I should go, for to you I lift up my soul. Deliver me from my enemies, O Lord. I have fled to you for refuge. Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Let your good spirit lead me on level ground. For your name's sake, O Lord, preserve my life. In your righteousness, bring my soul out of trouble, and in your steadfast love you will cut off my enemies. And you will destroy all the adversaries of my soul, for I am your servant. Let's pray. Lord, our hope is in you and in your steadfast love. And that's why when we are in distress or we feel pressured or we feel weak or empty, we need to turn to prayer. Not because prayer as some abstract thing, as some sort of magical power, but because we need you. And we're crying out to you. And we need you to hear our prayers and answer us and come to us with your steadfast love. so that we might be strengthened, that we might be renewed, that we might be delivered. Help us to turn to you in crisis, not as a last resort, but as our first and only resort. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope these are helpful to you. Tomorrow we'll continue on and look at the denials of Peter. Have a blessed day in the Lord.