Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill. Presbyterian Church. So glad you've joined us for week eleven of our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals as we are working our way through this wonderful series of questions and answers, seeking gospel comfort as we move from guilt through grace to gratitude. We're in the grace section of the Heidelberg Catechism, really looking at what we must believe. in order to receive the gospel and the comfort from the gospel, we have to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. But what does that mean? What exactly do we have to believe? And so we're looking at the Apostles' Creed. Let's pray as we head into the section that deals with Jesus, the Son of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us, your faithfulness to us. Thank you for the wonderful things that we've been doing. We're learning from the Heidelberg Catechism together. We pray that you bless our time together again today. That you would grow us in our knowledge and understanding of you. and of the salvation that we have in your Son. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. Alright, so as I said, we're in the section of the Heidelberg Catechism that deals with the Apostles' Creed. And we started this with question 23. on question twenty-nine today. But question twenty-three asks what are these articles of the faith And there's twelve articles divided into three sections in what we call the Apostles' Creed. I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord, He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and buried. He descended into hell. On the third day he arose from the dead, he ascended into heaven sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, from there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church, the communion of saints. the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. So this is where we are. Last week we were looking at Article I And section one, on God the Father Almighty, Creator of Heaven and Earth, we got great gospel comfort from knowing that God is our Father, that God is in control of everything under his providence and that we can uh have a lot of strength and and comfort and joy from that. But now we're moving on to section two and the second article, which begins, I believe, in Jesus Christ. His only begotten Son, our Lord. And question 29 asks, why is the Son of God called Jesus? That is, Savior? Answer: Because he saves us from all our sins, and because salvation is not to be sought or found in anyone else So when the Son of God came into the world, the angel told Joseph in a dream to name him Jesus. Why? What is Jesus? Jesus is Yeshua in the Hebrew, and that means salvation or savior or he saves. It's all the same basic word, Yeshua. Depending on the context, and a little bit of vowel inflections, it can mean salvation or savior or he saves. And that's the name of Jesus. His name is Salvation. And that's pretty powerful, especially if you're familiar with the Old Testament. For someone to have the name of Savior, the name of salvation, is pretty powerful. And it is the same word as Yeshua, which is Joshua, the man who led the people of God into the promised land, and also Joshua the high priest, who's mentioned um in Zechariah and in Haggai, um the post-exilic uh after the exile to Babylon the return, there was a Joshua High Priest who's who's really a a picture, a type, a foreshadowing of Christ. But he's given this name. He's given this name, why? Well, let's go to Matthew 1 and let's look at this passage. This is When Joseph found out that Mary was pregnant, and he knew it wasn't his baby, he was going to divorce her quietly. But then he's considering these things, and this is what we read in Matthew 1. Behold An angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife. For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son. And you will call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. We see two really important things here. First of all, he's named Jesus because He saves his people from their sins. That's what we need saving from. We don't need saving from poverty. We don't need saving from ignorance. We don't need saving from low self-esteem. We need saving from our sin because our sin makes us guilty before God, puts us under the sentence of condemnation. where we face an eternity of being separated from God, that's what we must be saved by. And that's why he's called Jesus. But also, as the Savior who saves us from our sins, he fulfills The prophecy given through Isaiah in Isaiah 7. 14 that his name shall be called Emmanuel. So he's Emmanuel, which means God with us. So he's the savior, he's God with us, because only God can be the savior, and we'll see that as we move on. Hebrews 7. 25 says, consequently he, that is Jesus, is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. This is why we need Jesus to have risen from the dead and to have ascended. into heaven and to sit at the right hand of God the Father because we need a living Savior who is praying for us continually We need his death to take away our sin. We need his resurrection to bring in eternal life. We need his constant intercession so that we will persevere by grace as God the Father answers the intercession. of the Son who sits at his right hand. That's why he's a Savior. He's the Savior who lived for us to be our perfect righteousness. who died for us to be the forgiveness and the atonement for our sin, who rose again for us to be our eternal life, and who sits at God's right hand to be our high priest and intercede for us. He is the Savior. But you know it's a curious thing because back in Isaiah 43, God said that only He, only God, only Yahweh, only the Lord is the Savior. This is what he said. But now, thus says the Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah, thus says the Lord, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel. Fear not, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by name. You are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. and through the rivers they shall not overwhelm you. When you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you, for I am the Lord your God. the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. And then later verse 11, I, I am the Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah, and besides me there is no Savior. This is why when Jesus comes in to be a Savior, he has to be Emmanuel, God with us, because there is no other Savior but God. This is one of the ways we know that Jesus is true God, fully God, because only God is the Savior, and Jesus is the Savior. So Jesus must be Emmanuel, God with us, the Lord God. The Holy One of Israel, your Savior. Besides me, there is no Savior. And one more, just to drive this home. Peter, who's here standing before the Sanhedrin, he knows Isaiah, of course, and he knows that Isaiah 43 says, Besides me there is no Savior. And so it's very interesting that Peter When he's put on trial before the Sanhedrin, he says to them, this is the same group of guys that condemned Jesus to death just months earlier, he says to them, this Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. This is from Psalm 118. It says, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. Peter's telling them, you fulfilled that prophecy when you rejected Jesus. This is the stone, this Jesus, this Jesus, the Savior, is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders. which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else. For there is no other name under heaven given among men. by which we must be saved. That's pretty powerful that says it straightly And again, given the context of Isaiah, which the Sanhedrin would know and Peter would know, there is salvation in no one else. There's no other name given under heaven among men by which we must be saved. That's powerful. Jesus, salvation. The Old Testament says repeatedly, the Lord is my salvation, Yahweh is my salvation, Jesus is our salvation because Jesus is, Yahweh come in the human flesh as the Son of God, made incarnate, made to be our salvation. I hope that you have found salvation in Jesus because There's no other name given under heaven among men by which we must be saved. There's salvation in no one else, as the Lord said. I am the Lord your Savior. Besides me there is no Savior. Jesus alone is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, because he alone always lives. There's only one person who's ever lived, who died, who rose again, and who is alive now and who lives forevermore, and that's Jesus. The one who is able to save us because he always lives to make intercession for us. And when he came into the world, the angel said he was to be called Jesus because he would save his people. from their sins. And that brings us back to our catechism question. Why is the Son of God called Jesus that is Savior? Because he saves us. from our sins and because salvation is not to be sought or found in anyone else. No one else is qualified. No one else is God made flesh. No one else took our sins upon himself. No one else rose again from the dead. No one else ever lives to make intercession for us. Let's pray. Oh Lord, what a wonderful Savior you are. Help us to trust you, to love you, to follow you, and to look nowhere else for the salvation we need but in you and you alone, Lord Jesus. We pray in your name. Amen. Let's respond now to this wonderful truth by singing together, hallelujah, what a savior. We sing this old hymn together. What a name for the Son of God who came since to reclaim. Hallelujah was a ring shame. Scoffing room in my place, condent Jesus sealed my heart with his blessing. Hell God works me for us, shall be high. Darken to my soul was the evening fell, yet morning green night. When he comes your asking all it ran some bring in. So we'll see how little I It's good news, amen.