Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill. Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you in our 33rd week together in the Gospels. We're in the Gospel of John, the fourth Gospel, sixth chapter today. We're going to be looking at verses 1 to 21 and asking the question of why didn't Jesus want to be king? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you even more for your Son, who is the Word of God made flesh and our Redeemer. Teach us today from your word, by the power of your Holy Spirit, draw our hearts closer to Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen John 6, 1-21. After this Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias. And a large crowd was following him because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. Jesus went up on the mountain. And there he sat down with his disciples. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. Lifting up his eyes then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread, so that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do Philip answered him, two hundred denarii worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to get a little. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy who has five barley loaves and two fish. But what are they for so many? Jesus said, Have the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place, so the men sat down, about five thousand in number. Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks he distributed them to those who were seated, so also the fish as much as they wanted. And when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, Gather up the leftover fragments, that nothing may be lost. So they gathered them up. and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who had eaten. When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet who is to come into the world Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. When evening came, his disciples went down to the sea, got into a boat, and started across the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark. And Jesus had not yet come to them. The sea became rough, because a strong wind was blowing. When they had rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat, and they were frightened. But he said to them, It is I, do not be afraid. Then they were glad to take him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going. This miracle from Jesus is actually the only miracle besides the resurrection that is recorded in all four Gospels, the feeding of the five thousand with five loaves. We just recently returned from a cross-country uh trip where we went, uh the cross-country team, not a cross-country trip, but a cross-country team trip We went out to Ohio and we ran in a big invitational that was held at Cedarville University in Central Ohio. And it was a great trip. And on the way back, we stopped at a place for lunch. that has free unlimited breadsticks with your food while you're dining in. Well we had a team of thirty-five hungry teenagers who were cross-country runners and who had just competed in a meet the day before, along with um eight chaperones. So we're talking over 40 people. And the restaurant had said unlimited free breadsticks while you're there. And let me tell you, we ate a lot of breadsticks. And they just kept bringing them and we just kept eating them. And when we left they gave us actually, they weren't supposed to do this, but they gave us to-go bags full of breadsticks for the car ride, which we were very thankful for. And it makes me think of this miracle that Jesus took these five loaves, and it wasn't, you know, 43 people or whatever, it was 5,000 men. Plus women and children, probably a total crowd size exceeding ten thousand, and with five loaves of barley. Jesus feeds the whole crowd, and then their to-go bags, their leftovers, are twelve baskets full. It's not a coincidence that twelve is the number of the people of God, the twelve tribes of Israel, the twelve apostles of Christ. It's a demonstration that Jesus can meet our needs and Jesus can uh can can more than meet our needs and abundantly meet the needs of all of God's people. That's what is being shown in this sign. But then Jesus reacts in a way that is puzzling according to our modern way of thinking. After he feeds these 5,000 people, The crowd wants to come and make him king. I mean who wouldn't want a king who can miraculously feed thousands of people with one boy's line? Hunger is solved. And you know, for most of the history of the world, hunger was the real problem. In our society today, we have the overabundance problem. problem where we eat too much food and we have an obesity problem. That was pretty much unknown throughout most of human history and still in most parts of the world. That's not the problem. It's the hunger problem. So here's a guy, he'd be a perfect king because he can feed everybody. Miraculously. And so Jesus, perceiving that they were about to come and take him by force and make him king. Verse 15 says, he withdrew again to the mountain by himself. So wait a minute, what's happening here? Jesus is the king, isn't he? Well, why would being made king by the Jews in a popular uprising be such a bad thing? After all, Jesus would have been a very good king, wouldn't he? He could have solved many of the structural injustices and oppressive systems that were plaguing God's people. He could have done a lot of good for a lot of people. He was wise and he was powerful, and he could know what was in people's hearts. So why didn't he do it? Why would he withdraw by himself? Because the reality is that settling for an earthly political kingdom would have kept him from going to the cross. And him being kept from going to the cross would have left us unforgiven, unreconciled to God. In other words, Jesus loved us too much to abandon his eternal salvation of his people. In exchange for some practical solutions to temporary earthly problems. And here's what most people miss. The mission of Jesus today has not changed When he was here, he set his face toward the cross, where he would pay for our sins and purchase our redemption and buy us back to God. Today, he sends out his church with the message of the cross, calling people to the cross where they can be forgiven and redeemed. To the world, this kind of message Doesn't make any sense any more than it did when he was here on earth and they were trying to make him king, but instead he wanted to be condemned in our That doesn't make any sense. No sane and rational person chooses to turn their back on political power in order to be despised and rejected by men. But Jesus knew. That only by being despised and rejected by men could he pay the price for our sins, could he reconcile us to God, could he purchase our eternal salvation Today, people not understanding the priority of the cross, the priority of the message of salvation, the priority of missions and the gospel are still trying to make Jesus some kind of earthly king Some of these would-be kingmakers want Jesus to lead their political party to victory in the next election so that their people can get their agenda passed in Washington, D. C. Surely Jesus is in favor of of good political aims, right? Other kingmakers twist the gospel to make it more about relieving poverty and injustice in this world, and not as much about the forgiveness of sins. or reconciliation to a holy God. Now Jesus does care for the poor. And the Bible tells us much about injustice and calls us to stand up for justice and to care for the poor. Absolutely. But to shift away from proclaiming the gospel to some substitute, shalom-driven social justice gospel is to substitute the cross. for an earthly crown. So you can come at this from a right wing perspective, you can come at it from a left-wing perspective, you can come at it from whatever. end of corner of political power you want. If you're trying to get Jesus to sign off on your political agenda, you're missing the point. Politics offers temporary and imperfect solutions to temporary and earthly problems. There's no perfect politics in a fallen world because the root problem we all face is sin, and only the cross of Jesus Christ can get rid of our sin and reconcile us to God. Besides, what we need to understand that when Jesus walked away from this crowd trying to make him king, the same reason why he walks away from these misguided political attempts to try to make him king today Is that for Jesus to be enthroned on Capitol Hill in Washington, D. C. is a serious step down from his present condition. He is King of all kings and Lord of all lords. He is the Lord of the nations. He is the God of all. And he calls all people everywhere to repent. to turn to him and to trust him and to receive not a temporary solution to an earthly problem, but to receive eternal life. Something that no bill passed in Congress, no executive order signed by a president could ever give. Jesus sends us, as his disciples, into the world to preach the good news of salvation in his name and to demonstrate the power of this good news by the way we love each other and we love our neighbors. That's the mission of the church. Preach the good news and show the power of the good news by the way we love one another and by the way we love our neighbors. We need to pursue this mission first, foremost, above and beyond everything else. Stop trying to make Jesus an earthly king. to sign off on an earthly, imperfect, temporary political agenda. When we trade in the life giving power of the gospel of Jesus Christ for earthly political power. We are cheapening the name of Jesus. We are cheapening the kingdom of God. We're cheapening our own calling. Because to be called as an ambassador of Christ, to be called as an ambassador of the King of Heaven with a message of reconciliation to the people of the earth is a higher calling than any political office or any political agenda. could ever give us. Jesus refused the earthly crown. We need to do the same. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for giving us your Son, who is the King of Kings, who is the Lord of Lords, who is King of the nations, and the Redeemer of all of his people. From every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, from every background, from every socioeconomic status, he redeems. He restores. He forgives. And he alone has the power to give eternal life to everyone who believes in him So thank you for Jesus, our Savior. May we represent him well. May we not misrepresent him in the name of some political agenda. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope that today's lesson was important and helpful to you. I think it's relevant to the times in which we live. The Bible always is. The Bible is the most relevant thing you can read and study because it's eternally true, and the eternal truths of God never change. Have a blessed day in the Lord.