Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our second day of week 36 We're here at the end of John chapter 12, looking at verses 44 to 50 and asking, did Jesus come to judge the world? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us, for your faithfulness to us. Lord, we pray that you would speak to us today, and that you would write your word upon our hearts. That you would help us to see Jesus and understand him more clearly so that we can follow him more faithfully. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen All right, John 12, 44 to 50. And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge The one, the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. For I have not spoken of my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment what to say and what to speak, and I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say, as the Father has told me So when Jesus says, I did not come into the world to judge the world Does it mean that it doesn't matter whether people believe in him or not because Jesus isn't about judgment? Does it mean that all roads lead to God and that each person should just choose their own religion, their own way to God? Well, no, that's clearly not what it means because Jesus says that the words he has spoken will judge on the last day. So what does he mean? The world without Jesus is already under condemnation and is already under the judgment of God, is already in darkness, is already spiritually dead and physically dying. That's that's the state of the world. Right? John three, sixteen, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, so that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. But then what comes next after that? John 3, 17 and 18, for God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world. but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. So the world is already condemned. The world is already in darkness. The world already has the death sentence passed upon it. So Jesus says in verse 46 here, I've come into the world as light, that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness The judgment comes not really from Jesus, but it comes from the failure to respond, the failure to hear. So Jesus says, I don't judge. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I don't judge him. I didn't come to judge the world, but to save the world. Same thing that John 3. 17 says. But he says, the one who rejects me and does not receive my words does have a judge, and that is the words that I have spoken will judge him. on the last day. So you see how it is it's like you're already in darkness, you're already cut off from God spiritually. You're already dying Physically. You're already awaiting judgment and condemnation. This is already the state of the world had Jesus never come into the world. Jesus comes into the world and says, Come to me and find life. Who come to me and walk in the light of God. Come to me and have forgiveness of your sins. And I will raise you up on the last day. And everything else that Jesus has been saying throughout the Gospel of John. Come to me and find all this So if people don't come, it's not because of what Jesus did when he came into the world. It's because they didn't respond to what he did. It's because they heard the word. They they heard the message and they chose, I'm gonna stay in darkness. People think that Christians are narrow minded and bigoted because we say You have to believe in Jesus in order to be saved. And they say, well, only Christians are going to go to heaven? Well, yes, but that's because only Jesus is the way to heaven. Only Jesus is the light of the world, only Jesus brings the message of salvation into the world, and all of us, Christians included, would be lost, condemned, cut off from God, guilty of our sin, awaiting judgment, awaiting condemnation, had Jesus never come into the world. So if there was no such thing as Christianity, if there was no such thing as a Jesus who came into the world and died on the cross and rose again from the dead, everybody, every single person would be condemned and without hope The reason why people are offended by the idea that you have to come to Jesus to be saved and that only Christians go to heaven, the only reason why they're offended by that is because they think that they're basically good. and right on their own, and that God ought to accept us for who we are and for what we've done, because we think that's pretty good. Like may not be perfect, but Certainly we're at least B minus material and God ought to take B minus material. But the truth is that on our own we're not B minus material spiritually. We're F minus material spiritually. We're spiritually dead. We're blind. We're walking in darkness. We're living for ourselves. We're refusing to glorify God. We're refusing to give thanks to God. We're not living according to God's word. We're living according to our own opinion. All of this is wrong. All of this is to be condemned. All of this doesn't pass muster. It'd be like a serial killer who is brought before a judge to be judged and he says, Why I could have killed a lot more people than I did. There were at least fifty-sixty people that I that I let go that I that I passed over. Surely I'm basically good. Or a bank robber who says I only robbed twelve banks. I didn't rob two hundred. If you grade on a scale of 200 bank robberies being really bad, I've only done 12 bank robberies. Like that's not how it works. We are guilty. We need Jesus. We need to be saved from ourselves. He is the only way of salvation because he alone is eternal life. He alone is the light. of truth, of the way to God, the life of God. He did not come into the world to judge or condemn the world, but that doesn't mean that you can reject him without consequence. He came into a world that was already under judgment, already under condemnation, as the light of the world to bring salvation. And so if you reject the light of the world and salvation, you remain in darkness and condemnation. Let's pray. Father, it is a fearful thing to reject the Savior of the world and remain in the darkness of sin. That is a tragic, horrifying thing. But it's the reality of people we know, people we love. They've made that choice. They've turned their backs on Christ. They've walked away from eternal life. They've chosen self-sufficiency and self-reliance instead. Please have mercy on them. Please, Holy Spirit, turn their hearts to the truth. Open their eyes that they might believe. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional lesson was a blessing to you. Tomorrow we're going to be getting into chapter 13 of John's Gospel. Join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.