Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church today On our second day of our ninth week, we're in Matthew 18, verses 1 through 20, asking, how does Jesus view children in the kingdom of God? How does Jesus view children in the kingdom of God? Let's um excuse me for one second. Okay. Let's go ahead and pray, and then we'll get into God's word together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and your faithfulness to us. Thank you for your Son, Jesus, our Savior. Heavenly Father, please speak to us through your word today. Write it on our hearts and help us to glorify you. Help us to draw close to you. Help us to know and love Jesus better. We pray in his name. Amen. All right, Matthew 18, verses 1 through 20. At that time, the disciples came to Jesus saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them and said, Truly I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me. But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and be drowned in the depth of the sea. Woe to the world For temptations to sin. For it is necessary that temptations come, but woe to the one by whom the temptation comes. And if your hand or foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life crippled or lame than with two hands or feet to be thrown into the eternal fire, and if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire see that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven. What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of them has gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray? And if he finds it Truly I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray. So it is not the will of my Father, who is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish. If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, Take one or two others along with you that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church, and if he refuses to listen even to the church Let him be to you as a Gentile or a tax collector. Truly, I say to you, Whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. And whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. for where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am among them. Well, I am a Presbyterian pastor of a PCA church, and I know that whenever I baptize a baby in worship Some of our members of our church and some visitors will almost certainly not understand or fully agree with what we're doing. Because over the past 100 to 200 years, the Baptist understanding of baptism has become the dominant view within the evangelical world. And now that makes it seem like the baptism of infants is strange and unbiblical, although that was the sole position of the church throughout most of church history. For me personally, I had my own journey from being a Southern Baptist to being a Calvinistic Baptist and then being a Presbyterian during my early to mid-20s The final step in the process was understanding how both Jesus and Paul viewed children within the kingdom of God and the church. Here we have a classic text on this topic. Jesus will later say in 1914 that the kingdom of heaven belongs to young children. But here in today's passage, he makes several comments that are important about children. Jesus calls a child to him. And the word that's used here for child is the Greek word piedon, which is commonly used of a very young child, an infant or a toddler. And of these children, Jesus says, first, unless you believe like them, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven, verse 3. Second, whoever humbles himself like a little child will be greatest in the kingdom of heaven, verse four. Third, whoever receives one such little child in the name of Jesus receives Jesus himself. It's verse five. Fourth, whoever causes a small child who believes in Jesus to fall into sin will face serious consequences. That's verse 6. Fifth, their angels in heaven always see the face of God. That's verse 10. And sixth, God does not want any of these little ones to perish. That's verse 14. Now, building a case in favor of covenant child baptism in infancy is bigger than simply understanding Jesus' view of the children of believers. If you do want more on this topic, I do have an ebook that's available on Amazon, or you can just email me at pastor at foresthillpca. org. I'd be happy to share with you some things that I've written on this topic, as well as other book recommendations. However In many ways, the central issue does come down to this, whether or not the children of believers belong in the church and should receive the sign of inclusion among God's people in the church. And Jesus' teaching in this passage is very helpful for settling that question. Clearly, Jesus sees children as belonging in the kingdom of heaven They are precious in the eyes of God. They are worthy of being fully received, protected, taught, blessed, and loved. And the faith of a child is something that is not to be dismissed or minimized or ridiculed, but it is to be cherished, nurtured, and encouraged. Indeed, We can see clearly from today's passage that Jesus loves the little children. So I think that weighs heavily toward baptizing them and bringing them into his church where they belong. Alright, Psalms forty-two and forty-three are written to the choir master, a masculine of the sons of Korah. Reading these together because in the original Hebrew version of the Bible they are together as one psalm and they they share a common refrain, which is repeated twice in Psalm 42, and then again in Psalm 43, as we'll hear. As a deer pants for flowing streams, so pants my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my food day and night, while they say to me all the day long, Where is your God? These things I remember as I pour out my soul, how I would go with the throng, and then lead them in procession to the house of God with glad shouts and songs of praise, a multitude keeping festival. Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him, my salvation and my God. My soul is cast down within me. Therefore I remember you, from the land of Jordan and of Hermon, from Mount Nizar. Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls. All your breakers and your waves have gone over me. By day the Lord commands his steadfast love, and at night his song is with me, a prayer to the God of my life. I say to God my rock, Why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with a deadly wound in my bones, my adversaries taunt me while they say to me all the day long, Where is your God? Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him, my salvation and my God. Vindicate me, O God, and defend my cause against an ungodly people. From the deceitful and unjust man, deliver me. For you are the God in whom I take refuge. Why have you rejected me? Why do I go about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? Send out your light and your truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me to your holy hill, to your dwelling. Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy. And I will praise you with the liar, O God, my God. Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God! For I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, there are many reasons why we may At times, why we do at times feel cast down in our souls. We feel discouraged, we feel disheartened, we feel far from you. But we need at those times to remind ourselves that our hope is in God, our salvation. Who is praiseworthy and who will restore us. Father, you are our hope, not our own feelings. Not our life circumstances, not the strength of our enemies that might plague us or persecute us. You are our hope and our salvation, our rock and our strength. And you are unfailing. Unfailing. So may we trust in you, may we love you, may we cling to you, may we cherish you. And may we teach our children from the very earliest age that whatever circumstances they're in in life, whether they feel close to you or a million miles away from you, whether things are peaceful and calm and joyful or whether troubled and oppressive You are the unshakable rock, the hope, the salvation that we need. You are our God, and you never fail. May we believe that, and may we teach our children that from the youngest age, bringing them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord as your children. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels and praying the Psalms. Hope it was a blessing to you, and I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.