Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason. Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're glad you're with us. It's our 11th week going through the Heidelberg Catechism. Catechism is just a series of questions and answers that are designed to teach you to teach you about doctrine, about the truth. In this case, the Heidelberg Catechism comes to us all the way from 1563 in Heidelberg, Germany. And it was one of the great documents that came out of the Reformation period as the ruler of that area was trying to make sure that all the people who were under his care were properly instructed in the Christian faith. And so Zacharias Arsinus is the principal author, and we are working our way through this this year. We move from guilt through grace to gratitude as we seek gospel comfort in the Lord. We're in the heart of the grace section. of the Heidelberg Catechism, we're focused on the Apostles' Creed, what we must believe, and we're focused more specifically on Jesus, what we must believe about Jesus. It doesn't get more to the heart of grace than that, because Jesus is of course the fountain of all grace and truth that's come to us from God the Father. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your Son, our Savior. The law came through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ, and from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. That's what John 1 tells us about your Son, our Savior. We pray that you'd be with us as we dig into the Heidelberg Catechism and look at question number 30 today, that you would be our teacher and help us to grow in our understanding of Christ and what it means to be saved by grace alone through faith alone. In Him alone. That's our focus today. We pray that you would help us to learn these things. In Jesus' name, amen Alright, Heidelberg Catechism. We are in the Apostles' Creed section of the Heidelberg Catechism, which first comes up in question 23. which ask us what are these articles of the Christian faith that we must believe. And there are twelve articles that are outlined for us in the Apostles' Creed, and they're broken into three sections corresponding to the three persons of the Godhead, the three persons of the Trinity. So what are these three articles? I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified dead and buried, he descended into hell. On the third day he rose from the dead He ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. And our our springtime will be spent in the in the Apostles' Creed, working our way through these twelve articles of the faith. And right now we're dealing with Article 2. I believe in Jesus Christ. his only begotten Son our Lord. And we're really on Jesus Christ and what it means to believe in him. So question twenty-nine says Why is the Son of God called Jesus, that is Savior? We looked at this last time. Because he saves us from all our sins. And this is key, because salvation is not to be sought or found in anyone else. He alone is Jesus, Savior, salvation. He saves us from our sins. Salvation is not to be sought or found in anyone else. So picking up with this, question 30 is a follow-up to question 29, and it asks an important question. Do those who seek their salvation or well-being in saints, in themselves, or anywhere else also believe in the only Savior, Jesus? That's very convicting, isn't it? If you're seeking your salvation in anyone or anything else, including yourself, do you also believe in the only Savior Jesus? And the answer is no. Though they boast of him in words, they in fact deny the only Savior, Jesus, for one of two things must be true. Either Jesus is not a complete Savior, or those who by true faith accept this Savior must find in him all that is necessary for their salvation. You understand that? You if you believe in Jesus for your salvation and you're trusting in something else or someone else, including yourself, for your salvation, then you're either saying Jesus is not a complete savior, and that's wrong. Jesus is a complete Savior. He's the only Savior. So the only alternative is that those who by true faith accept this Savior must find all that is necessary for their salvation in him. They must find in him all that is necessary for their salvation. It's a very convicting one because it challenges us to not trust in anything else besides Jesus. We are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Where do we get this from scripture? Well, Paul chastised the church at Corinth, telling them they were in grave error. When they were not only trusting in Jesus, but they were looking toward men to be their leader and their hope. 1 Corinthians 1, 12-13, Paul says, What I mean is that each one of you says, I follow Paul, or I follow Apollos, or I follow Cephas, or I follow Christ, as kind of the super-spiritual people. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? You see, Paul doesn't even want Allegiance to himself. We could think of human beings who in their pride would love to have a growing following He could write and say, I'm the one who planted this church, I'm the one who brought the first converts in, I'm the one who baptized the very first uh members of this church. But no, he says Don't follow me. I wasn't crucified for you. You weren't baptized into my name. And Christ cannot be divided. You can't have part of your salvation in Jesus and part of it in Paul or part of it in Jesus and part of it in Apollos or Peter. It's wrong to trust in anyone or anything else in addition to Jesus for salvation. Galatians 3, 1 to 4, Paul uses even stronger words because here the Galatians are looking to trust in their obedience to the law of God for their salvation in addition to having faith So this is what he says in Galatians 3, verses 1 to 4, O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Let me ask you this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Are you so foolish, having begun by the Spirit? Are you now being perfected in the flesh? Did you suffer so many things in vain, if indeed it was in vain? Now those last words are very serious because he's calling them foolish and he's saying that all that they suffered would be in vain. If they would start off trusting in Jesus Christ and Him crucified, and then would try to then start trusting in their flesh. Fulfilling the works of the law. In other words, we might say, Oh, I believe in Jesus and He's my Savior, but I think I'm going to go to heaven because I'm basically a good person and I do the right thing and I try really hard and I obey the law. So therefore I think I'm going to go to heaven because of that. Wrong. You've just denied the first part of what you said. If Jesus is your Savior, then the only reason why he would go to heaven is because he is your Savior. He was crucified for your sins. He rose again from the dead for your justification. He sits at the right hand of God, ever-living to make intercession for you. He is your salvation from beginning to end, the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the author and perfecter of our faith, not Jesus and my works, not Jesus, and I'm basically a good person. Because if you're basically a good person, then you're denying your very need for a savior, or you're denying the sufficiency of your Savior. It's a very serious error. Colossians chapter 1, verses 19 to 20, and then chapter 2, verses 8 to 10. This is unpacking a little bit about what Paul means when he says Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. What does that mean? Well, what it means, according to Colossians, what Paul says there is that in him that is in Jesus all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of the cross. It's not making peace possible or making peace doable for you, making peace by the blood of the cross. And then later in chapter 2 he says See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, and you have been filled in him who is the head of all rule and authority. So in chapter 1, again in chapter 2, Paul twice here emphasizes that all the fullness, the whole fullness of God, of deity, dwells bodily in Christ. What does that mean? That means he's sufficient. You can't need more than God because there's not more than God. So it's not like Jesus is is my beginning of my peace. He's the beginning of what I need for salvation, but then I'm going to do something of my own. Paul here talks about philosophy, empty deceit, human tradition, elemental spirits of the world. The Colossians were thinking that if they attained some sort of secret knowledge, of the hidden things of God, if they knew the names of angels, if they had visions and dreams, those things would gain them extra favor with God. There's no extra favor with God for a Christian to gain. The whole fullness. of the deity dwells in Christ and in Christ alone. And finally, Romans chapter 7 And eight. These are passages that I just preached on recently at Forest Hill. But Paul says, For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. It astounds me how many Christians, sincere, church-going, Bible-believing Christians, think Well, I believe in Jesus, and I'm trying to be a really good person because I think that's going to get me to heaven. No, no. I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is in my flesh. I have the desire to do what is right. but not the ability to carry it out. If you could keep the law, if you could be a basically good person, you wouldn't need a savior. You don't have a Savior who fills in the gap between your righteousness and God's holiness. You have a Savior who is your righteousness beginning to end through and through. Paul says, Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I myself Serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, even though in me, in my flesh, there dwells no good thing, even though I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out, even though I Serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh serve the law of sin, even though all that is true. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord, that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Period. God is the all-sufficient Savior. And He came in bodily form in Jesus Christ and He made peace by the blood of His cross. And if you believe in Jesus Christ crucified, you don't need, and you can't look to anyone else or anything else for your salvation So back to our catechism question. Do those who seek their salvation or well-being in saints, in themselves, or anywhere else also believe in the only Savior Jesus? No, though they boast of him in words, they in fact deny the only Savior Jesus. For one of two things must be true, either Jesus is not a complete Savior, or those who by true faith accept this Savior must find in him all that is necessary for their salvation. That is good news. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for giving us life and salvation in your Son Jesus Christ. All the fullness of God dwelt in bodily form in the Lord Jesus. And he was crucified for our salvation. You made peace and reconciled us to yourself through his blood shed on the cross. There's no other way, there's no other savior. Thank you. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Amen. Let's re-respond as we have been doing to the truth of the gospel by singing worship to God. What can wash away my sins? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Can wash away nothing Nothing but the blood Jesus What can make me whole All looking nothing but the love. The precious is the flow that makes me wise no. Water comes high, you know, nothing but the blood of Jesus. For my cleaning this much we That makes me write that no high low. Desert you Nothing can forth in the town, nothing but the blood of Jesus God. That I have done nothing but the blood of Jesus. My life shut me, nothing but the glorious. It's not for makes me write us to hell outside us.