Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Memmel from Forest Hill. Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you today as we finish up week eleven. We're still in this section of the Apostles' Creed that deals with Jesus, the Son of God, Jesus Christ, and how we believe in Him. So it's at the very heart of the section on grace as we have moved out of guilt. We're now in grace, and as we move through grace we'll be in gratitude and the fall. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we deal with question thirty-one of Heidelberg Catechism today. Heavenly Father thank you so much Much for giving us life in your Son, Jesus Christ. Your Son, our Savior, the Lord. Jesus Christ. He is everything. He is our all-in-all. Our only savior, our only righteousness, our only forgiveness, our only peace. Teach us now more. More about Jesus, we pray. In his name. Amen. Alright, so we are on question thirty-one of the Catechism today, but we're going to do a little bit of review. These three questions this week have all been about Jesus. Last week they were all about God the Father and Providence, and this week You're all about Jesus. Why is the Son of God called Jesus that is Savior? Because He saves us from all our sins, and because salvation is not to be sought or found in any anyone else. So we talked about this on Monday, but there's some important words there to just re-emphasize. All And not anyone else. So Jesus is the Savior because He saves us from all our sins. And salvation is not to be found in anyone else. leads us to the second question that we dealt with Wednesday on day two of this week. And that is, do those who seek their salvation or well-being in saints, in themselves, or anywhere else Also believe in the only Savior Jesus. And we dealt with this last time. If you missed it, make sure you go back and look at it. The answer is no. If you look for your salvation or well-being in saints or yourself or anywhere else You do not also believe in the only Savior, Jesus. No. Though they boast of him in words, they in fact deny the only Savior Jesus For one of two things must be true. Either Jesus is not a complete Savior, or those who by true faith accept this Savior must find in him all That is necessary for their salvation. And the key word here is all. It's all found in Jesus and in Jesus alone. Today's question is a long one. We have a lot of rich content in question 31. Why is he called Christ? That is anointed. You know, Christ wasn't Jesus' last name. Back then they didn't really have last names. He would have been known as Jesus of Nazareth or Jesus son of Joseph. Even though Joseph wasn't his biological father, he was his earthly father. But his name, Christ, means anointed. It's the Greek word that's the equivalent of Messiah. So Jesus Messiah or Jesus Christ. So why? Why is he called Christ that is anointed? Answer. Because he has been ordained by God the Father. and anointed with the Holy Spirit to be our chief prophet and teacher, who has fully revealed to us the secret counsel and will of God concerning our redemption. Our only high priest, who by the one sacrifice of his body has redeemed us, and who continually intercedes for us before the Father, and our Eternal King. who governs us by his word and spirit, and who defends and preserves us in the redemption obtained for us. In the Old Testament there were three anointed offices, prophet, priest, and king. Prophet was the spokesperson for God They were the ones who said, Thus says the Lord, and they spoke forth the word of God. We sometimes think of a prophet who's someone who's a foreteller. They foretell the future. But actually a prophet is more principally a forth teller. They tell forth the word of God. Jesus is the very incarnation of the Word of God. So he's our chief prophet and teacher. He's fully revealed to us the secret counsel and will of God concerning our redemption. So that's prophet. Second major anointed office was priest. A priest is one who offers up a sacrifice and who intercedes on behalf of God's people. He's a mediator. He offers up the blood sacrifice for peace and for sin and for guilt, and he offers up intercession before God. So Jesus is our only high priest who by the one sacrifice of his body has redeemed us and who continually intercedes for us before the Father The third major anointed office in the Old Testament was the King, and Jesus is our eternal King. A king's job is to govern, to defend, to preserve. provide for, protect, and rule over. So Jesus is our eternal King, who governs us by his word and spirit, who defends and preserves us in the redemption he obtained for us. Where do we see this in Scripture? Well, one of the principal places where we see this is actually at the baptism of Jesus. In Matthew 3, the end of Matthew 3, we see Jesus coming from Galilee to the Jordan to John in order to be baptized by him. John would have prevented him, saying, I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me? But Jesus answered him, Let it be so for now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he consented. And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him. And he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him. And behold, a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved son. with whom I am well pleased. Now it's important to note that John, the baptizer, is a priest He's the son of a priest, Zechariah. He comes from a priestly family from the tribe of Levi. He is 30 years old by this time, so he is of age, where he would have been ordained as a priest. But he's in the wilderness as a prophet, as one who is preparing the way before the Lord. So he is a priest and a prophet. And he sees Jesus coming. And he's doing a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. And so he sees Jesus coming and he says, I need to be baptized by you. Do you come to me? In other words, Jesus, I'm the one who's a sinner, not you. I need to be forgiven by you, not you, by me. This is backwards. But Jesus said, Let it be so for now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. And John anoints Jesus by pouring water over his head. And then God the Father anoints Jesus by pouring the Holy Spirit, who descends from heaven in the form of a dove and comes to rest on him. By the way, it's very clear if you read, I think, carefully the language of the New Testament that baptism likely took place by pouring. Remember, John the Baptist said, I baptize you with water. but one is coming after me who will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with power. And God said, In the last days I will pour out my spirit. And here's the Spirit who comes down from heaven and rests on Jesus' outpouring of the Holy Spirit in the form of a dove from the Father to the Son. And on Pentecost the Spirit was poured out upon the disciples. So baptism seems to be a function in the New Testament if you read exegete the white spaces, read between the lines and see This is a great picture of the Trinity. You have God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Spirit, they're all working together. There's one will at work, there's one plan, there's one purpose of redemption, but you've got three persons who are doing three different actions. God the Father is testifying, He's sending the Son. He's sending the Spirit to anoint the Son. The Spirit is descending from the Father to the Son to anoint him for his ministry. We know this is the anointing of Jesus as Messiah because after he goes out to the wilderness and he comes back, Jesus goes up to his hometown to Nazareth, and he says he's been anointed. This is Luke chapter 4. This comes right after the temptation of Jesus in the wilderness, where he's tried and tested for 40 days. Luke 4, 16 to 21. And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up to read. And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me. to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind. to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And he rolled up the scroll, gave it back to the attendant, and sat down And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him, and he began to say to them, Today, this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. Jesus said, the Father sent him into the world, and the Spirit has anointed him to proclaim and to set free And to pronounce the year of the Lord's favor. Jesus was anointed. He was the Messiah. He was the Christ We pick up language of Jesus being anointed specifically in one of these offices as the priest. If we went through every scripture about Jesus being our prophet and our priest and our king, we'd be here all day. and into tomorrow. So we're we're gonna have to trim the lesson a bit. We're gonna look at some things in Hebrews that speak beautifully about Christ being are king and priest, because, Hebrews 7 says, For it is witness of him, you are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. Here, the author of Hebrews is quoting Psalm 110. To be a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek is to be a priest and a king, because Melchizedek was the king of Salem. His name, Melchizedek, means king of righteousness. His title, King of Salem, means King of Peace, so he was King of Righteousness and King of Peace and a priest of God most high. Jesus was anointed as a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. Hebrews goes on to say, and it was not without an oath. For those who formerly became priests were made such without an oath, but this one was made a priest with an oath. By the one who said to him, The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, you are a priest forever. This makes Jesus the guarantor of a better covenant. Jesus the mediator, Jesus the anointed one, Jesus the eternal priest, priest forever, eternal priest. Only high priest, because he continues in office forever, and the guarantor of a better covenant, the new covenant. One more scripture, Hebrews chapter 10, verses 11 to 14. I love this one so much. Get this picture. And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices. Which can never take away sins. That verse 11 is a picture of repetition and futility. Repetition and futility. And then comes what R. C. Sproul says, the most powerful word in the Bible, but But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down. at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. That's kingly language. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. So we see here in Hebrews, king and priest And in Luke, prophet, he's been anointed to proclaim to proclaim, proclaim, proclaim. Three times that word proclaim. Good news to the poor, proclaim liberty to the captives, proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. He's the prophet, he's the priest, and he is the king What does all that mean? It means we have everything we need in Him. Do we lack wisdom? We find it in Jesus, our great prophet and teacher Do we lack assurance of our forgiveness? Do we lack strength to persevere? We find it in Jesus, the great high priest, who is the sacrifice that cleanses us of all of our sin, and who intercedes for us, that we might get strength to persevere. Are we afraid? Are we intimidated by enemies and by opposition? Then we have Jesus, our eternal King, who governs us by his word and spirit, and who defends and preserves us in the redemption obtained for us. The anointed one, Jesus Christ, prophet, priest, and king, is everything we need. Let's pray Oh Lord Jesus, what a wonderful Savior you are. The Savior, the mediator, the Messiah. Anointed our prophet, priest, and king, the final word from the Father, the final sacrifice to cleanse from all sin. The faithful intercessor, whoever lives to make intercession for us, and the King of all kings and Lord of all lords, it's you, Lord Jesus, and there is no one like you Thank you for being our Savior. Thank you for being our Lord. Thank you for being our everything. We pray to you, O Lord Jesus, in your name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for another week of Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. Let's respond to the wonderful truth of God's word by worshiping him together in song Oh, hail the power of Jesus' name that angels prostrate. Bring forth the royal time and crown him. Bring forth the royal Sayata and crown Vord. Oh speed of Rust chosen great now hands from the fall Kill him who saves you by his great and crowd. By his grace and crowding. Love can never forget the one word and the goal. Go spread your trope feet at his feet and cry Ghost ratio beastly and crowded. Every tribe and every song that Now shouting you the person the crowd. Now shouting the person the crowded go. How if yonder stay could come, we are speeding made for. Will join the everlasting song and crowding will join. Be employing sun and crowded.