Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Dummel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 802nd day together in the Word of God. We're in Job 14. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gift of your word. Your word is truth. You alone have the words of eternal life. Your word is a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. It is sharper than any two-edged sword. It is breathed out by you and is profitable to us. So, Father, take your word and write it on our hearts today, and make us more like Christ for the time we spend with you in your word in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Job chapter fourteen. Man who is born of woman is few of days and full of trouble. He comes out like a flower and withers. He flees like a shadow and continues not. And do you open your eyes on such a one, and bring me into judgment with you Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? There is not one. Since his days are determined, and the number of his months is with you, and you have appointed his limits that he cannot pass, look away from him and leave him alone, that he may enjoy like a hired hand his day. For there is hope for a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that its shoots will not cease Though its root grow old in the earth, and its stump die in the soil yet at the scent of water, it will bud, and put out branches like a young plant. But if a man dies and is laid low Man breathes his last, and where is he? As waters fail from a lake, as a river wastes away and dries up. So a man lies down and rises not again. Till the heavens are no more, he will not awake, or be roused out of his sleep. O that you would hide me in Sheol, that you would conceal me until your wrath be past, that you would appoint me a set time and remember me If man dies, shall he live again? All the days of my service I would wait till my renewal should come You would call, and I would answer you. You would long for the work of your hands, for then you would number my steps, you would not keep watch over my sin. My transgression would be sealed up in a bag, and you would cover over my iniquity. But the mountain falls and crumbles away, and the rock is removed from its place. The waters wear away the stones, the torrents wash away the soil of the earth, so you destroy the hope of man. You prevail forever against him, and he passes. You change his countenance and send him away. His sons come to honor, and he does not know it. They are brought low, and he perceives it not. He feels only the pain of his own body, and he mourns only for himself. We get such beautiful and powerful expressions of the need of the gospel in Job 14. It really shows us, again, more of Job's Old Testament faith, the pre-Christ faith. Um and there's it's just beautiful. He has talks about death and basically the unknownness of death, and then he also talks about Really a longing for resurrection and renewal, but also a longing for complete forgiveness. So I said, I think on was on Saturday With Job 12, I talked about how Job knew that God was sovereign over all things, and he also knew that he did not deserve any of what was happening to him. Job is is blameless, but that doesn't mean he's completely sinless. And we know that because he talks about the iniquities of his youth in verse 26. For you write bitter things against me and make me inherit the iniquities of my youth. Like Job knows that he's not sinless. He knows that if God were to hold all of his sins against him, no one could stand, as Psalm 130 says so well, if you would count iniquity, who could stand? So there needs to be forgiveness and there needs to be a covering of that. And so if there's an extent to which Job deserves What's happening to him because of the sins of his youth is what he's thinking of. Not that he's sinless now, but he is a man who has faith and is striving to be obedient and is trusting the Lord and is seeking to honor the Lord. So he is a believer who is sincerely, by the grace of God, wanting to be a faithful and obedient believer at this point in his life. But in his youth Sounds like things work that way. And so he's wrestling with sin and forgiveness. He's also wrestling with death and judgment. He's also longing for resurrection and renewal. All of those things are here in this chapter. Now beautiful. poetry here in this chapter, the opening, man who is born of a woman is few of days and full of trouble. He comes out like a flower and withers. He flees like a shadow and continues not. That's just true of the human condition, right? We are very intelligent, we are very reflective, we are very meditative and contemplative, but we're fragile. and mortal and our days are full of trouble. And so he's he's just wondering a lot about how a mortal and sinful man could ever stand in right relationship before God. I mean if God brings mortal sinful men into judgment What hope would there be, right? Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? There is not one. No one, as far as Job knows, or has seen, or has experienced, or knows about in the world There's no one who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean. There's no one who could who could enable a man who's mortal and whose days are full of trouble and whose sins to make a man be able to stand in the judgment and come out clean from that judgment. Now this is where Christ comes in, right? Christ is our perfect righteousness. He lived a sinless life, but not only that, But his blood, his death, his sacrificial atonement is able to bring a clean thing out of an unclean. But again, this is a pre-Christian faith. This is a pre-Christ faith. So the days are numbered and he dies. There's no hope for life after death of any certainty with Job because of not only the mortal nature of man, but the sinful nature of man. So he breathes his last. He asks in verse 10, man dies and is laid low, man breathes his last, and where is he At this point, before the resurrection of Christ, there's not a very clear understanding of what what good might be in store for even believers after death. And so it's just Waters fail from the lake, river wastes away and dries up, so a man lies down and rises not again. Will he rise again Hmm. Look at verse 12 again. So a man lies lies down and rises not again till The heavens are no more. He will not awake or be roused out of his sleep. That little phrase in the middle of that verse, till the heavens are no more You see, when Christ comes again there will be a new heavens and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth will have passed away. So this present age, this present order, this present heavens and earth will pass away, and there will be a new heavens and a new earth. And then There will be rising. Again, there will be rousing out of his sleep. Sleep is a biblical metaphor for death. So he He he does believe that at the end of it all, when the heavens are no more, there will be some kind of resurrection. That'll become clearer later, but he's at least longing for it and picturing it as a something that could be a reality in in the far future. But still, he's not sure about it. And he's also not sure how it is that he could stand before God's wrath. How could he be concealed from the wrath of God, verse 13? How could he have his transgressions sealed up in a bag, verse 17? How could he have his iniquity covered over? Again, this is what Christ does for us. Christ casts our sin into the sea of forgetfulness and covers it over and cleanses us from it. This is, he's longing for what Jesus alone can provide. But until that time, he just. Man is under this oppressive burden of, I know that I'm mortal, I know that I'm sinful, I know that I can't really even appear before God to plead my case. So where is my hope? And ultimately the hope that Job is looking for here in verse in chapter 14 is going to come when Jesus comes. And we'll see that later even more clearly. that he has that hope of a coming Redeemer who will stand at last on the earth. Let's pray. Father, thank you that we live on this side of the cross in the empty grave. Thank you that we live in the light of the atoning death and the victorious resurrection of Jesus. So that these things that Job longed for, wondered about, knew he needed expressed a hopeful desire for, but not a sure confidence in, that we can have a sure confidence because we know Our Redeemer is Jesus, and we know that our sins are covered by His blood. We know that our life will be raised up again in Him when He comes again. We know the hope of the gospel. in such a clear and powerful way. Help us to live it through the midst of suffering. Help us to live in the sure and strong hope of your gospel, of your Son, Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Alright, well thanks for joining me for Job 14. Tomorrow we're going to start the book of Titus. So I hope you can join me for that as we're in Titus 1 tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.