Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 808th day together in the Word of God and we are in Job. eighteen and Bildad the Shuhite is going to respond to Job's despair with some not so helpful words I think are coming today Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Your word is always helpful to us, even when we are hearing the words of someone who was not wise or faithful. They're good for us to take to heart and learn from. But we need you to teach us. We need you to build us up in Christ. We need you to be the one who writes your word on our hearts by the power of God. of your Holy Spirit. So please do this we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Job 18. Then Bildad the Shuite answered and said, How long will you hunt for words? Consider, and then we will speak. Why are we counted as cattle? Why are we stupid in your sight? You who tear yourself in anger Shall the earth be forsaken for you, or the rock be removed out of its place? Indeed, the light of the wicked is put out, and the flame of his fire Does not shine. The light is dark in his tent, and his lamp above him is put out. His strong steps are shortened. And his own schemes throw him down, for he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walks on its mesh A trap seizes him by the heel. A snare lays hold of him. A rope is hidden for him in the ground. A trap for him in the path. Terror frightens him on every side and chases him at his heels. He is torn from the tent in the world. in which he trusted, and is brought to the king of terrors. In his tent dwells that which is none of his. Sulphur is scattered over his habitation His roots dry up beneath, and his branches wither above. They of the West are appalled at his day, and horror seizes them of the East. Surely such are the dwellings of the unrighteousness Righteous, such is the place of him who knows not God. You know, the only real problem with what Bildad the Shuhite says is that it doesn't really apply to Job. And also that it often doesn't come to fruit. fruition in this life. Bildad says some pretty powerful things about where the wicked make their dwelling and what happens. Of their sins and made righteous through the righteousness of Christ will die as a wicked man, and will find judgment awaiting But that's not Job's case. Job has faith in Christ. It's an Old Testament faith. It's a pre-incarnation, pre-resurrection faith, but Job has faith in Christ And Job is righteous by faith. When God says of Job that he is blameless and upright and righteous, it's because he's in Christ. In and of himself, he talks about the iniquity of his So it doesn't apply to Job, and it's not always seen so clearly in this. Life. It is easy to see how you can say, God is just, God is holy, God is sovereign. God hates evil and punishes the wicked, all of which are true. And then you look around you and say, there's someone who's blessed and prospering. They must be righteous. There's someone who seems to be cursed by God and is really suffering. They must be wicked. Those conclusions don't follow from those premises because we don't have all the information So, Bildadheshuhite is insulted by Job's words, where Job has been rebuking him because Job basically, these guys are kind of know-it-alls. They feel like they have the wisdom, right? Uh some of them, we don't know who exactly, but at least one of them is older than Job's father, so they're aged. And they're wise men, and they think they have all wisdom. And Job has really thrown that back in their face and said, You're certainly not acting like wise people because you're miserable counselors. You're miserable counselors. Your words are not helpful And now Bildad the Shuhite is insulted. Why are we counted as cattle? Why are we stupid in your sight? You who tear yourself in anger. Like Jove, you don't have any answers. You're ripping your clothes apart. You're scraping your your your sores with pottery shards. You're sitting in the dust. You're weeping and wailing and cursing the day of your birth And wishing that you were dead and saying that God's against you, you don't have any answers. How come you're rejecting our answers? Well, it's simple because Job knows enough to know that the answers of his so called friends are false. Because he understands that he is not one of these wicked. So let's look at what Bildad says about the wicked. Indeed, the light of the wicked is put out, and the lamp flame of the His fire does not shine. The light is dark in his tent, and his lamp above him is put out. His strong steps are shortened, and his own schemes throw him down. That's true, again, in eternity, in the eternal justice of God. But in this life. It's just true that most of the wealthiest people in the world, most of the most successful people in the world, many of whom seem to live pretty contented lives and will live a long time, most of them do not know God. Most of them are wicked. Most of them are alienated from God and are not in Christ. And so, but in this life, they seem to be doing just fine But it is true of the wicked that ultimately a snare will lay hold of them. Ultimately, the wicked will have to Go into eternity and face the reality of their sin, and will be thrust into darkness and will be driven out of the world. The dwellings of the unrighteous will be, as Jesus said, in outer darkness, where there is weeping and gnashing of the So when you see the prosperity of the wicked, as Psalm seventy-three encourages us to do, when you see the prosperity of the wicked and it doesn't seem right to you, and you see the suffering of the righteous and it doesn't seem right to you. you consider the end of the story. Trust God to be the righteous judge. And know that eternally what Bildad the Shuhite is saying about the wicked is exactly correct. And so justice is coming. And if you are not in Christ, you need to know that you have no righteousness of your own. You may think I'm basically a good person. But Job was not saved by his own righteousness. Job was saved by his faith and his sincere devotion to the Lord and his specifically his hope. In his Redeemer, which the next time we're back in Job, we're going to be in chapter 19 and we're going to see the most explicit statement of Job's faith in his Redeemer that we get in this book. So justified by faith or separated from God for all eternity, those really are the only options. I hope you know where you stand with God. I hope you are in Christ. And that he is your righteousness forever. Otherwise, you may risk being thrust from light into darkness and And dwelling in the place of the unrighteous and the place of those who do not know God. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the grace. Of salvation through Jesus Christ. Thank you that He is perfectly righteous. He is our Redeemer. He is our peace with you. May we hide ourselves in Christ and trust in your goodness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Job eighteen. We're going to be back in the book of Titus tomorrow, picking up with Titus chapter two. It's been several days since we Ben and Titus. Looking forward to that. Hope you can join me for it. And I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.