Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 799th day together in the Word of God, and we are in Job chapter 12. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are good, and you are truth, and you are wisdom And you are the source of all goodness and all truth and all wisdom, because everything good flows from you. Lord, be our teacher today. Help us to see you. To understand ourselves and our limitations, our need for Christ, and to trust. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Job chapter twelve. Then Job answered and said, No doubt you are the people, and wisdom will die with you. But I have understanding, as well as you. I am not inferior to you. Who does not know such things as these? I am a laughingstock to my friends. I, who called to God and he answered me, a just and blameless man, am a laughingstock. In the thought of one who is at ease, there is contempt for misfortune. It is ready for those whose feet slip. The tents of robbers are at ease, and those who provoke God are secure, who bring God in their hand. But ask the birds, and they will teach you. The birds of the heavens, and they will tell you, or the bushes of the earth, and they will teach you. And the fish of the sea will declare it to you Who among all these does not know that the hand of the Lord has done this? In his hand is the life of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind. Does not the ear test words as the palate tastes food? Wisdom is with the aged, and understanding in length of days. With God are wisdom and might. He has counsel and understanding. If he tears down, none can rebuild. If he shuts a man in, None can open. If he withholds the waters, they dry up. If he sends them out, they overwhelm the land. With him are strength and sound wisdom. The deceived and the deceiver are his He leads counselors away stripped and judges he makes fools. He looses the bonds of kings, and binds a wastecloth on their hips He leads priests away, stripped, and overthrows the mighty. He deprives of speech those who are trusted and takes away the discernment of the elders. He pours contempt on princes and loosens the belt of the strong He uncovers the deeps out of darkness and brings deep darkness to light. He makes nations great and he destroys them. He enlarges nations and leads them away. He takes away understanding from the chiefs of the people of the earth and makes them wander in a trackless waste. They grope in the dark without light and he makes them stagger like a drunken man. That is Job chapter 12. We're right in the middle of the speech by Job that's going to continue in a couple of days when we come back to Job 13. But this is actually some of the best that we hear from Job in this book. And he's showing his own wisdom. His friends have tried to sort of put him in his place and sort of teach him theology as if he didn't know it already, right? They've tried to like Explain to him the ways of God, that he punishes the wicked and he rewards the just and he is fair and he's right in all that he does. And they have A very simplistic and a very reductionistic view of God. They think that if they understand a little bit about God, true things, then that means they understand everything about God, including the hidden things. Deuteronomy 29, 29. Great verse. Worth memorizing, worth keeping in your head always, Deuteronomy twenty nine twenty nine, the hidden things belong to the Lord our God, but the things revealed to us and to our children that we may do all the words of this law. So God has secret things or hidden things that belong to Him, the hidden counsel of God, the secret providence of God, and then He has revealed things written down in Scripture for us, and they're given to us so that we might trust and obey. Those are two different things. Because you know the revealed things doesn't mean you know the hidden things. And Job is actually giving us some pretty good wisdom. here in this chapter, and we'll see in a couple of days he's going to continue to stake his faith in God, even though he knows enough to know two things. God is the one who is in control of everything, including everything that's just happened to him. And second, he hasn't done anything to deserve this. And Job is right on both of those accounts. His friends are not right in that his friends believe God is in control, but that God only ever punishes the wicked and only ever rewards the righteous, and that's simplistic and that's reductionistic and that misses out on understanding the mystery of the hidden things of God. But Job, because they've tried to teach him and put him in his place and sort of correct him, he is challenging their so-called wisdom with much greater wisdom, because his vision of God is much bigger and much richer He says, I have understanding as well as you. I am not inferior to you. Who does not know such things as these? Such things as all the things that his friends have told him, which I told you when we go up through those chapters, almost everything from Job's friends can be cross-referenced somewhere else in Scripture. They are true theological statements, misapplied badly because of arrogance and presumption. He says, who does not know such things as these? But he says it's easier for you to laugh at me and show contempt for me because I have fallen. But you know there are robbers who are sitting in their tent right now at peace? These bands of Chaldean raiders who came in and stole his livestock. These Sabaeans who came in and destroyed, they have their plunder and they're sitting in their tents at ease. They provoke God. They carry their gods around in their hands. That's a reference to the foolishness of idolatry. They bring their God in their hand, right? And yet they're at peace. God doesn't punish them. God hasn't wiped them off the face of the earth. If you look at nature, Job says, Ask the beasts, the birds of the heavens, the bushes of the earth, the fish of the sea. If you look at nature, the Bible I think has a much higher and richer view of nature than most modern American Christians. Most modern American Christians live this sort of i life where we're isolated from nature because we live inside of homes that are heated and air conditioned and we're not dependent upon the cycles of the season. We don't really pay that much attention to nature or the patterns of it. But the ancient peoples were much more tuned in to the patterns of nature and the lessons that could be learned from nature. And he says, if you pay attention to nature, you're going to see that the hand of God Has done this. The hand of the Lord has done this. What does that mean? Well, God's in control of all living things. And He gives breath to everyone. And if you look at nature, you'll see sometimes whole flocks of birds will fall out of the sky dead for no apparent reason. Whole swarms of fish will die off and be washed up on the seashore for no apparent reason. Swarms of locusts will come in and destroy crops in an area leading to mass starvation. for no particular obvious cause. God is in charge of all of these things, and He has reasons for them that we are not capable of even beginning to understand. You'd be better off trying to teach quantum mechanics to a group of kindergartners than trying to teach the hidden ways of God to us, no matter how wise and old we think we are. We just don't know. But God's hand is in it all. With God are wisdom and might. He has counsel and understanding. If he tears down, none can rebuild. He shuts a man in, none can open. He withholds the waters, they dry up. If he sends them out, they overwhelm the land. God is absolutely sovereign. There is nothing that happens apart from his will. He is the Lord. That's it. That's Job's big point here. And it's profound. Nations, the mighty, the princes, the strong. They're nothing compared to God. God can just snap his fingers and wipe them out because he's God Almighty And he has reasons for doing it. And we don't know what those reasons are, and we never will in this life because we're not God. until there's a certain extent to which Job is simply saying to his friends, you understand God in the ABCs. I understand the ABCs too, but we're talking about poetry We're not talking about C. Jane Run. We're talking about Shakespeare here. This is higher level, more complex God is bigger, God is greater, God is more advanced, God is more sophisticated, God is more sovereign, and God is more mysterious than you will ever guess. So quit trying to explain that I must have sinned and deserved this thing. Because I know I didn't, and yet I know God is in control That is hard to hear if you're going through something difficult, but it is good if we are willing to trust God. If we're willing to say not only that God is sovereign over all things, and sometimes people get things that it doesn't seem like they deserve, and be you know, in terms of robbers sitting comfortable in their tent and Job scraping his sores in the dust, right? Sometimes things are way out of whack from a human perspective, but God knows what he is doing. We have to trust him. We have to trust him. And sometimes later we see it. You know, we've we've been through situations, probably you have, I have. Or something was incredibly painful and difficult at the time. But with a little bit of hindsight, you can look back and say, okay, I understand why that was there. I needed to learn this lesson. I needed to see this truth. God was growing me in this way. Sometimes in this life we get to see that, and sometimes we don't. But we need to trust God, because He's always in control, and He's always good, and He always knows what He's doing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, what a good word for us to hear. Help us to trust you. To follow you, to humbly depend upon you, for you are good. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thanks for joining me for Job twelve. Tomorrow we're going to be in Second Thessalonians chapter three. Have a blessed day in the Lord.