Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 823rd day together in the Word of God And we come back to the book of Job to Job twenty seven. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are wise and wonderful in all of your ways. We are limited in our understanding. We are foolish in our thoughts, we are short-sighted in our perspective. We need you. We need you to give us your wisdom. Your eternal vision. We need you to give us faith to trust you beyond what our eyes can see. We need you to give us confident hope through your word and your spirit. So we pray that you would do all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. Job twenty-seven. And Job again took up his discourse and said, As God lives who has taken away my right, and the Almighty who has made my soul bitter. As long as my breath is in me, and the Spirit of God is in my nostrils, my lips will not speak and will not let it go. My heart does not reproach me for any of my days. Let my enemy be as the wicked And let him who rises up against me be as the unrighteous, for what is the hope of the godless when God cuts him off, when God takes away his life? Will God hear his cry when disastrous when dis Sorry. Will God hear his cry when distress comes upon him? Will he take delight in the Almighty? Will he call upon God at all times? I will teach you. concerning the hand of God, what is with the Almighty I will not conceal. Behold, all of you have seen it yourselves. Why then have you become altogether vain? This is the portion of a wicked man with God and the heritage that oppressors receive from the Almighty. If his children are multiplied, it is for the sword, and his descendants have not enough bread. Those who survive him the pestilence buries, and his widows do not weep. Though he heap up silver like dust, and pile up clothing like clay, he may pile it up. But the righteous will wear it, and the innocent will divide the silver. He builds his house like a moth, like a booth that a watchman makes. He goes to bed rich, but will do so no more He opens his eyes, and his wealth is gone. Terrors overtake him like a flood. In the night a whirlwind carries him off. The east wind lifts him up, and he is gone It sweeps him out of his place, it hurls at him without pity. He flees from its power in headlong flight. It claps its hands at him and hisses at him From its place. That is Job 27, which is Job's response as he's continuing to speak about the Lord and to show that actually he has greater wisdom. and a greater vision of the greatness of the Lord than his friends. His friends have kind of reduced God down to a kind of manageable size and Job doesn't want to tolerate that. He thinks that that is wrong. And so he is casting a vision for God that is right and righteous, that is great, and that is far greater than the vision that his friends have. So here he's going to affirm several things that his friends have been asserting, but he does so more correctly, because he does so more worshipfully, more in awe of God's justice and in the mystery of the timing and the and the place of God's justice. So so he's already said That in this world, it often seems that the righteous are suffering in ways that they don't deserve, and the wicked are prospering and seem to have no problems. This Psalm 73 is a place where I would encourage you to go to sort of understand the flow of the thought process that Job goes through. And they're given to us because they're how we are supposed to process these feelings. When you look out at the world and you see wicked people who are selfish and and deceitful and narcissistic and you know, conniving, plotting, and they're prospering and they're praised, and they seem to be happy and smug And then you look and you see people who are earnest, people who are righteous, people who are honest, people of faith. Not that they're sinless, but they truly trust and follow the Lord, and they're struggling and they're suffering. Job is given to us, and Psalm 73 is given to us, and Ecclesiastes is given to us as places where we can go to process This reality in faith before God. And so the first thing that Job says in Job 27 is that he is going to defend his own integrity and his own righteousness because he knows he's not he's not hiding things. Job doesn't have a bunch of skeletons in his closet. He doesn't have a secret life where he's hiding a bunch of iniquity, which is basically what his friends have been accused of him of. And he knows that. He says, I'm going to hold fast my righteousness. I'm not going to let it go. My heart does not reproach me for any of my days. So again, this is not to say that Job is absolutely sinless, because in other places he's admitted that he's not absolutely sinless. But there's nothing in his life, no hidden secret, no double life, no closet full of skeletons that would sort of vindicate or justify this this kind of outward calamity from a human perspective. And so then he talks about his enemies. And that leads him to think about the unrighteous and to speak in ways that do agree with his friends about what happens to the unrighteous. Job is not denying the justice of God and that God will and does make things right in the end. Right? The hope of the godless? When God cuts him off? When God takes away his life? What is the hope? Again, it's a rhetorical question. The answer is there's no hope. There is no hope for the godless when God cuts him off. The prosperous, proud, smug, deceitful, arrogant, condescending, plotting, rich person Who seems to triumph and everything they touch seems to turn to gold will be held accountable to God. They will see everything they've built collapse. All of a sudden. But it's going to happen when God says it's going to happen. You cannot look at the world now and say, that person's doing well, they must be pleasing to God. That person's doing very poorly. They must have hidden sin that they've not confessed. That person seems really happy. They must have a right relationship with God. That person seems really upset and down all the time. They must not know God and know his peace. You can't do that. You can't make those kinds of summary judgments, which is what Job's friends are doing. But that doesn't deny. That God will make things right in the end. And so God doesn't hear the cry of the wicked when disaster comes to them Because he doesn't take delight in the Almighty. He doesn't call upon God at all times. So Job says, I'm going to teach you concerning the hand of God What is with the Almighty? I will not conceal. He's saying them, I understand these things as good as you and better. I understand them better than you do. You've seen it yourselves. You've seen yourselves someone who was prosperous, someone who was thriving, someone who seemed to have it all together, and then in an instant everything collapsed, and they were a wicked person. Now that happened to me, but that doesn't necessarily mean that I'm wicked. This is just part of the mysterious working of God. So just because, yes, the wicked do face a sudden collapse, sometimes it doesn't happen until this life is over, right? We know in in the very end A rich person might die wealthy, successful, well-praised, and with a smile on their face, but just like that, they're going to be face to face with Almighty God, who is holy, holy, holy And they're going to receive the just reward for their works that have been done in wickedness. And so it will come. The justice will come. And so that's what he's going through here. He's saying all his success is really going to end up nothing. It's going to end up in terror, in Disaster in being swept out of his place. But it's so important that Job says, just because that does happen to the wicked doesn't mean that because it's happened to me, that I am wicked. Again, we need to affirm the justice of God. We need to affirm that God is just, that God is holy, that God is sovereign, that God does order the affairs of men and nations according to his sovereign goodness. But it's mysterious how he does that It's according to his timing. It's according to his wisdom. And that's why the next chapter will give you a preview of what we're going to be looking at tomorrow is that wisdom It's something that God has, and it's very, very valuable, and it requires humility and faith, but we'll get to that tomorrow. For today, our lesson is this. Whatever we see in the world, we must believe that God is just, that God is holy, that God is sovereign. That means he's in control control, and that in the end he will do what is right. Will not the judge of all the earth do right? Of course he will. But we cannot think that we have the mind of God and we can see Based upon what we observe in the world, that we can see exactly what God is doing and why he's doing it. We can't. We have to trust him for that. those hidden things. So for a Christian, it may be if something bad happens to you, you think, oh, God's punishing me for some kind of sin. No, don't think that. And you may even get to despair and just say, what's the point of even trying to be a faithful Christian if my life is just so hard all the time? Well, there is a reward that is coming if you persevere in faith. And there is a consequence coming to those who mock the Lord. what our life experiences are. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your truth, your justice. Thank you for your power, for your love. We trust you. We trust you to make everything right in the end. We thank you that our sins have been taken away by Christ. We've gotten from you better than what we deserve, better than justice We've gotten mercy, we've gotten forgiveness, we've gotten redemption, we've gotten an eternal reward through Jesus Christ, our Savior. I pray that we would trust in Him. I pray that we would follow Him. I pray that we would honor Him. I pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Job twenty-seven. Tomorrow we are going to move on to Job twenty-eight. Hope you can come for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.