Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 8111th day together in God's Word, and we're in the book of Job. Job chapter 20. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please speak to us through your word today. We're gathered here not to hear the words of a man, but to hear the word of God. We need to hear from you. Speak to all of us, speak to all of our hearts. Show us Christ, show us our need for Christ, help us to walk more closely with Him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Then Zophar, the Naamathite, answered and said, Therefore my thoughts answer me, because of my haste within me. I hear censure that insults me, and out of my understanding a spirit answers me. Do you not know this from of old, since man was placed on the earth, that the exulting of the wicked is short, and the joy of the godless but for a moment? Though his height mount up to the heavens, and his head reach to the clouds, he will perish forever like his own dung Those who have seen him will say, Where is he? He will fly away like a dream and not be found. He will be chased away like a vision of the night The eye that saw him will see him no more, nor will his place any more behold him. His children will seek the favor of the poor, and his hands will give back his wealth His bones are full of his youthful vigor, but it will lie down with him in the dust. Though evil is sweet in his mouth, though he hides it under his tongue, though he is loath to let it go and holds it in his mouth, yet his food is turned in his stomach. It is the venom of cobras within him. He swallows down riches and vomits them up again. God casts them out of his belly. He will suck the poison of cobras. The tongue of a viper will kill him. He will not look upon the rivers, the streams flowing with honey and curds. He will give back the fruit of his toil, and will not swallow it down for the profit of his trading from the profit of his trading he will get no enjoyment. For he has crushed and abandoned the poor. He has seized a house he did not build. Because he knew no contentment in his belly. He will not let anything in which he delights escape him. There was nothing left after he had eaten. Therefore his prosperity will not endure. In the fullness of his sufficiency, he will be in distress, the hand of every one in misery will come against him, to fill his belly to the full, God will send his burning anger against him, and rain it upon him into his body. He will flee from an iron weapon. A bronze arrow will strike him through. It is drawn forth and comes out of his body. The glittering point comes out of his gallbladder Terrors come upon him. Utter darkness is laid up for his treasures. A fire not fanned will devour him. What is left in his tent will be consumed. The heavens will reveal his iniquity, and the earth will rise up against him. The possessions of his house will be carried away, dragged off in the day of God's wrath. This is The wicked man's portion from God, the heritage decreed for him by God. Now, what Zophar the Namothite says here is not really wrong. It's not false. In the end, the wicked will come to nothing. In the end, they will be destroyed Think of Psalm 73, the great wonderful Psalm that contemplates, you know, where uh there's envying of the wicked and the prosperity of the wicked until right the psalmist goes into the house of God to worship and considers their end, and realizes that they will be destroyed in the end, and then he's encouraged to know that it's not for nothing that he keeps his hand. hands clean. It's not for nothing that he honors the Lord. So it's like, okay, what Zophar is saying is not false, except, except. Look at verses 4 and 5. Do you not know this from of old, since man was placed on earth, that the exulting of the wicked is short? and the joy of the godless but for a moment. Now, if so far meant by that that even if the wicked exult throughout all their lives, even if they have joy and pleasure their whole life long, that's only short and that's only a moment compared to eternity, if that's what he meant. then that's not false, but I don't think that's what he meant. I think what he's saying is because God is just, and because God is opposed to the wicked that they always have a very short, as in just a few years, of glorious peak. We now we do see that sometimes in the world, right? We do see people who are tremendously successful and make lots and lots of money, professional athletes and Hollywood superstars and singers, musicians, and they crash and burn spectacularly because of the wickedness of their ways, because they get into drugs and sexual immorality and partying and totally irresponsible spending. Like a lot of what you see here in Job 20, we can point to in the world and we can say, yes, we've seen examples of that. Professional athletes and superstar singers and actresses and actors and politicians who rose to the heights who made lots of money, who were very famous, but who just they they devoured their own wealth. Exactly the kind of language that Zophar uses here in this chapter. We have seen that. But it doesn't always happen that way It just doesn't always happen that way. There are wicked people. Look at Vladimir Putin, for example. He's not a young guy. And he seems to just be getting stronger and more confident in his power as he goes older He's been in power for a long time. He's just won re-election, allegedly, right? And he's now going to be the longest-serving Russian leader since Joseph Stalin, there's another one. You know, he lived to an old age and died of natural causes, right? So it doesn't always happen that The exulting of the wicked is short, and the joy of the godless is but for a moment. Sometimes there's a long time when they appear to be on top. Now, in the end, it's true. In the final settling of all things, God does oppose the wicked And they will be judged. And only those who um who serve the Lord will stand But you think, like, look at verse 10 again, another example of this misguided way of trying to say, in other words, Zophar is trying to say, because this is true in the eyes of God, and because this is eternally true, therefore it must be true. in a case-by-case basis for everybody who's on earth observable. That's just not the way it works. So again, look at verse uh ten. His children will seek the favor of the poor and his hands will give back his wealth. Will they? I mean there's been lots of rich wicked people who've left an inheritance to their children who've continued to be rich and wicked, and they've left an inheritance to their children who've continued to be rich and wicked. There have been such things as ruling dynasties of wicked people, right? So it doesn't always work that way God's justice doesn't work the way that we think it should in a predictable way. Now Zophar here is not directly applying this to Job, although it's It's implied, right? It's implied. Not only is he wrong in thinking that this always works itself out on Earth this way, but it's implied That this is the real reason why all of Job's children are dead and why he's lost all of his wealth. Because he must secretly want to be one of these wicked people. So again, what we see here is that Human beings get way out of their depth when they try to Presume that a little bit of right theological knowledge or a little bit of biblical understanding allows us to then turn around and interpret world events cultural realities or the lives of other people we know, somehow infallibly as though we know what God is doing and why he's doing it. Most of the time we just don't know. We know God is good. We know God is just. We know God never fails. We know God never breaks his promises. But other than that, again, what we're seeing in Job is be humble. Be content if you're if you are righteous and you are living an upright life before God and you're a person of integrity and you're suffering Greatly, either you've been misunderstood or people slandered you, or some disaster comes upon you. Trust God through those things? And if you see someone else suffering, offer them compassion. Like Job said yesterday to his friends, pleading with them, have mercy on me, my friends, have mercy on those who are suffering, because we don't know why. We can pray for them and we can encourage them and we can love them. And we can keep our mouth closed about stuff that's way above our pay grade that we don't really understand. Let's pray. Father in heaven, forgive me for times when I look at the world, I look at current events, I look at the news, I look at cultural realities, and I think that I have figured out what you're doing I haven't. Your ways are far above and beyond my ways. Mysterious and holy are all of your ways. So give me more humility and more compassion. Give that heart to all of us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Job 20. Tomorrow we're going to head back to the book of Titus and pick up another wonderful gospel grace picture from Titus chapter 3. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord