Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 807 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we come now to Job 17, as Job continues his lament. In Job 17. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good, unfailingly good. You are always wise, and all you do is right It is for your glory and it is for our good. So often we can't see that. And when we rely on what we can see and we rely on what we understand, we falter and we get bitter. And we get upset. Help us not to trust in ourselves. Help us not to trust in what our eyes can see and our minds can understand. But help us to trust your heart more than these things. Teach us now through Job 17, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Job 17. Good coffee here this morning. My spirit is broken. My days are extinct. The graveyard is ready for me Surely there are mockers about me, and my eye dwells on their provocation. Lay down a pledge for me with you, who is there who will put up security for me Since you have closed their hearts to understanding, therefore you will not let them triumph. He who informs against his friends to get a share of their property, the eyes of his children will fail He has made me a byword of the peoples, and I am one before whom men spit. The upright are appalled at this, and the innocent stirs himself up against the godless. Yet The righteous holds to his way, and he who has clean hands grows stronger and stronger. But you come on again, all of you, and I shall not find a wise man among you My days are past, my plans are broken off, the desires of my heart. They make night into day. The light, they say, is near to the darkness. If I hope for Sheol as my house, if I make my bed in darkness, if I say to the pit, You are my father, and to the worm, my mother or my sister, where then is my hope? Who will see my hope? Will it go down to the bars of Sheol? Shall we descend together into the dust? This is Job speaking out of the brokenness of his heart, of his spirit, literally. He says, my spirit It is broken. He doesn't see any point to his life other than now to die He thinks everything he has that's worth living for, any reason why God would have him on earth, has come to an end. It's not really true, at least not in a permanent sense. He is in a very, very difficult place. However, it is not a permanent condition because God If you find yourself in a very difficult position, if you find yourself thinking, I don't understand why God has my life the way that it is, it doesn't seem to serve any purpose, I don't see what I'm saying. God is using you. God was using Job even in this moment to bring hope and encouragement to millions upon millions of So when you are in the worst place and you think there is no hope, you don't know how God is using you in that place, nor do you know what God has planned for you in the future. So don't give up. Now, Jove's friends are mockers. They mock him by telling him that his suffering is his fault, and so they are They're all around him. And he's talking to God about this. He says, lay down a pledge for me with you. He's asking God to remember what his friends have done, and he is wanting God to act. He's wanting God to take action for his good. He says to God, You have closed their hearts to understanding. Therefore, you will not let them triumph. So he says, Why don't they see the truth? Well, it's because God hasn't let them see the truth. And if God hasn't let them see the truth, then they're not going to be able to triumph over him. They're not going to be able to have the last word. knows of the character of God. And then he starts to address his friends in verse 6. Sometimes it's hard To tell when he's shifting, but he has made me a byword of the peoples. Here he's talking to his friends about God. And I am one before whom men spit. My eye has grown dim From vexation, and all my members are like a shadow. The upright are appalled at this, the innocent stirs himself against the godless, yet the righteous holds to his way, and he who has clean hands grows. Stronger and stronger, but you come again, all of you, and I shall not find a wise man among you. So here he's talking to his friends, and he's saying, God has done this to me And I am someone who makes upright people appalled. And yet I know that truly righteous people will continue to hold to God And to be faithful, even though they see what's happening to me, and they may be appalled by it, and they may be dismayed or perplexed by it, I know that they're not going to stop following the Lord if they are truly righteous people. And then verse eleven he speaks again out of his despair. My days are past, my plans are broken off, the desires of my heart. And he's speaking about his friends now, about his friends, they make night into day, the light they say is near to the This is because they make night into day. The light is near to the darkness. The truth about Job's life is that he is a man of godliness. righteousness. He's a man of the day. He's a man of the light. But they're accusing him of being a man of darkness, a man of shadowy secret sins. that are not brought out to the light. When actually Job is someone who lives his life openly before God and before others as a man of righteousness. But he's feeling very, very hopeless. He's looking for hope, and he doesn't quite see it. He doesn't see any purpose for his life on earth, and yet he also doesn't see any purpose for why he should go into the grave. So he kind of says to his friends, shall we descend together into the dust? Pretty pretty bleak. Okay. Job here is be careful, he's not cursing God. But that doesn't mean that he's exemplary in everything that he says either. Job will be corrected by God. At the end of this book, he will be confronted by God, and he will see that he too has had too small, too shallow, too narrow a view of God So here he's not cursing God, he's not openly sinning against God, but he's also not really speaking out of faith. He's speaking out of his despair. But it's good that he's speaking to God about his despair, and it's good that he's being honest and that he's not giving up. the faith. So sometimes that's the best we can do is to talk to God about our despair, not give up on our faith, be honest in the midst of our suffering. You know, Jesus spoke honest things. He spoke hard things. He wept. He wept at the grave. Of Lazarus in the face of death. He wept over Jerusalem and he said, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how long I have wanted to gather you under my wings as a hen gathers for chicks, but you were not willing. He was grieved over that. He was brokenhearted over that. When on the way to the cross, when the women were weeping for him, he stopped and he talked to the women, and he said, Don't weep for me, weep for yourselves. For judgment's coming against Jerusalem, that's a big paraphrase of what he was saying. In the garden, before he went to the cross, he cried with agony, and he wept before his father and said, Father, if it is possible, take this cup from me Nevertheless, not my will but yours be done. It is not a sin to be even in agony and in anguish of soul over sin. Over suffering, over death, over trial and struggle, as long as, what was Jesus doing? Taking it to his Father Speaking the truth, even hard truth, through tears in love. We see Job doing some of that here. He's not he's not Jesus, he's he's more despairing than he should be Because he's losing sight of the bigger picture. But God is not offended by tears. Stoicism of keep a stiff upper lip and carry on, that may be like a traditional British virtue. And it may be a traditional American value, but it's not. John Wayne Christianity is not necessarily what God is looking for, or what pleases God in every circumstance. To be brokenhearted, to grieve, to be And to pour those things out before God pleases God and He will hear those things. But we need to remember in our agony that God never changes. God never fails. God's heart toward us is good. And God keeps all of his promises. Remember Psalm 117 that we were looking at yesterday. Yesterday. Remember that, even in the depths of despair. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you're good. You're good when we're happy, you're good when we're in agony. You're good when we win, you're good when we lose. You're unfailingly and unchangeably good. Help us to trust that by faith at all times. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Job 17. I hope it's a blessing to you. Have a blessed day in the Lord. Lord.