Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On this 816th day, together in the Word of God, we come to Job 23. Today and tomorrow we'll be looking at two chapters here in the middle of Job 23 and 24, in which Job is really crying out for justice, for judgment day. In 23, it's for the vindication of the righteous, and in twenty-four it's for the punishment of the wicked, but both of these chapters are really him crying out by faith. for a final judgment uh to make to make wrongs right in in the world. And so let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into these chapters. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is living and active and sharper than any two edged sword. Life through your word by your spirit. You give truth. You give comfort. You give correction. Father Father, give us Christ through your word today. We pray in his name. Amen. Job 23 Then Job answered and said, Today also my complaint is bitter. My hand is heavy. On account of my groaning, oh that I knew where I might find him, that I might come even to his seat No, he would pay attention to me. There an upright man could argue with him, and I would be acquitted forever by my judge. Behold I go forward, but he is not there, and backward, but I do not perceive him. On the left hand, when he is working, I do not behold him He turns to the right hand, but I do not see him, but he knows the way that I take. When he has tried me I shall come out as gold. My foot has held fast to his steps. I have kept his way, and have not I have not departed from the commandment of his lips, I have treasured the words of his mouth more than my portion of food. But he is unchangeable, and who can turn him back What he desires that he does, for he will complete what he appoints for me, and many such things are in his Not silenced because of the darkness, nor because thick darkness covers my face. Job here is wanting to be able to stand before the throne Now we need to be very clear that it is not because of Job's own sinless Perfection or inherent righteousness, but because he trusts God, because he's righteous by faith, because he walks We've seen him in earlier chapters confess that no one is sinless before God, that he has many sins from his youth. And it seems to him, it feels from his experience like God. God hates him, God is punishing him, God is being angry with him, but God is not. And Job's under attack by Satan. Now God gave permission for this testing, this trial, right? And Job is going through a trial, and actually Job is exactly right. In what he says um in Lost my spot. I had it marked and then I lost it. Okay. Um there we go. First 10 Sorry about that. Job is exactly right in what he says in verse ten, but he knows the way that I take when he has tried me. This is one of the best faith insights that Job by the grace of God has into what is really He doesn't fully understand. He often expresses that he thinks God is mad at him, that God hates him, that God is being mean to him, that God is punishing him for no cause. But really he's going through a trial, a refinement, a tribulation. And God knows God knows the way that Job takes. God knows that Job's foot has held fast to the steps of God. God knows that Job trusts God, has kept to the God God knows all this. God knows this better than Job knows it of himself. And when Job has been tried, he will come out as gold. But Job's problem is he can't see God, and he can't Meet with God. He has no way of approaching God. He has no way of even seeing God. And so again, what we're seeing in Job is that he by faith is crying out From a need for Christ. Because Christ will come into the world. God made flesh, the God-man, the word, become flesh And people will see him. People will see God in human flesh and will hear from him and will be able to Talk to him. And through Christ, all believers now have access to the throne of God, where we can plead our cause. Before God. We can cry out to God for deliverance, for rescue, for help, for protection, and we have an advocate With the Father. We have a human mediator, one who is the only mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. He sits at the right hand. Of God the Father as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the Vindicated One, the Victorious One. And He's the one that Job knows that he needs, because he knows he can't see God. He knows he can't approach God, but he believes that if he could, his case would be successful, not because he's perfect, but because he Genuinely does trust God. One day Jesus will come back, and he will judge the world. He'll judge the whole world, the living and the dead. And when he does, books will be opened, and people will be tried according to their works. But there will be another book The Lamb's Book of Life. And those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life will be vindicated because they have trusted God, they belong to Christ. Christ's blood covers our sins. Job knows, although he doesn't really know intellectually cognitively, he knows by faith But his name's written in that book. And he knows that if he gets the chance to stand before God, he will be vindicated, and he's right. On judgment day, when you and I as Believers, as those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life, when we stand before Christ Jesus and we are vindicated, Job will be there too. And he will be vindicated. At the end of the book of Job, he's rewarded in an earthly way, but at the end of all time he will be rewarded on that final day Judgment Day. So in the meantime, because he lives in a pre-Christian era, because he lives before the incarnation, he doesn't understand. He doesn't see. And so even though he has this faith, this longing, this desire, and this even this confidence that he's expressed now in 23 and earlier in 19, clearly by faith, better than he knows, he's still afraid. He's still terrified. But he's not silenced. He's not silenced because he's still persevering in faith. And sometimes that's what faith looks like. Faith looks like saying, Lord, I don't understand. This doesn't make sense to me. This hurts beyond my ability to bear. I am in dread. I am terrified. I am in the dark. But I am not silent. I will keep pleading with you. I will keep seeking you. I will hold fast to your way Sometimes that's what faith looks like. And so Job here gives us a beautiful portrait of that and an example for us to follow. And how much more blessed are we because we know now the name of our mediator. Jesus, the place of our mediator at the right hand of God the Father, the heart of our mediator, he is God for us and who can be against us. So in the darkness, when we cry out, We cry out like Job, but we cry out with better knowledge and a more complete understanding than Job. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you for a mediator, a redeemer, an intercessor, a ruler, a final judge, a friend. Like no other. We praise you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Job 23, and tomorrow we're going to go on to Job 24. I do hope. You have a blessed day in the Lord.