Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our eight hundred and thirty-ninth day together in the Word of God, and we come to Job thirty-eight, and the Lord is going to speak. So let's pray as we listen to Him together today. Heavenly Father, when you speak All creation is called to listen. How much more your own children, called by your name, loved by you in Christ. Help us to listen. Give us insight by your Holy Spirit. Write your word upon our hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Job 38. Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge? Dress for action like a man, I will question you, and you make it known to me. Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me if you have understanding Who determined its measurements? Surely you know. Or who stretched the line upon it? On what were its bases sunk? Who laid its cornerstone? when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy Or who shut in the seas with doors, When it burst out from the womb, when I made clouds its garment and thick darkness its swaddling band, and prescribed limits for it, and set bars and doors, and said, Thus far you shall come and no farther, and here shall your proud waves be stayed. Have you commanded the morning since your days began, and caused the dawn to know its place? that it might take hold of the skirts of the earth, and the wicked be shaken out of it. It is changed like clay under the seal, and its features stand out like a garment. From the wicked, their light is withheld, and their uplifted arm is broken. Have you entered into the springs of the sea, or walked in the recesses of the deep Have the gates of death been revealed to you? Or have you seen the gates of deep darkness? Have you comprehended the expanse of the earth? Declare, if you know, all this Where is the way to the dwelling of light? And where is the place of darkness? That you may take it to its territory, and that you may discern the paths to its home. You know? For you were born then, and the number of your days is great. Have you entered the storehouses of the snow? Or have you seen the storehouses of the hail, which I have reserved for the time of trouble for the day of battle and war. What is the place? What is the way to the place where the light is distributed Or where the east wind is scattered upon the earth. Who has cleft a channel for the torrents of rain, and a way for the thunderbolt to bring rain on a land where no man is? On the desert in which there is no man, to satisfy the waste and the desolate land, and to make the ground sprout with grass, has the rain a father? Or who has begotten the drops of dew? From whose womb did the ice come forth? And who has given birth to the frost of heaven? The waters become hard like stone, and the face of the deep is frozen? Can you bind the chains of the Pleiades or loose the cords of Orion? Can you lead forth the Masaroth in their season? Or can you guide the bear with its children Do you know the ordinances of the heavens? Can you establish their rule on earth? Can you lift up your voice to the clouds that a flood of waters may cover you? Can you send forth lightnings, that they may go and say to you, here we are. Who has put wisdom in the inward parts? Or give an understanding to the mind? Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can tilt the waterskins of the heavens? when the dust runs into a mass and the clods stick fast together. Can you hunt the prey for the lion? Or satisfy the appetite of the young lions, when they crouch in their dens, or lie in wait in their thicket? Who provides for the raven its prey? When its young ones cry for help, cry to God for help and wander about for lack of food That's Job 38, the Lord speaking finally after chapter and chapter and chapter of people who don't have answers. And then Elihu's pretty good speech in chapter 37. Now we have the Lord speak. Unparalleled, it is wisdom and power. God speaks out of the whirlwind. He says, Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge? Job is. has claimed that God hates him, that God has made himself his enemy, that God is against him, that God has had no just cause for doing these things to him. And that it would be better off if he had never been born. Not that he'd be better off being an unbeliever, but it would be better off if he had never been born. All of these things are ignorant. They are presumptuous. And all of Job's friends have also talked in ways that are ignorant and presumptuous. But now God is going to give Job kind of what he's been asking for, and that is to answer him. And this reminds me of something I heard in a sermon one time. I think it was from John MacArthur, but I'm not sure. I heard a sermon, I remember this line from it, but I cannot remember exactly who said it or when. But In the sermon, the pastor said, sometimes when we ask God why, what we don't understand is that for God to answer that question would be like pouring the Pacific Ocean into a Dixie cup. We have no idea. You see, God created the Pacific Ocean. the the great depths of it. God created every living creature that moves on the face of the earth and in the seas. All the way to the depths. Everything from a little flea or a mite or a gnat to a humpback whale or a blue whale or an elephant. Or hippopotamus, all of it. He talks about the animals here and how not only does he made all those things, but he knows them and he takes care of them personally. Not only that, but God is completely in control of the ecology of the earth. He brings forth rain, he brings forth snow, he brings forth hail He causes the earth to spin just exactly right so that sunrise and sunset and the changing of seasons and the stability of the earth happens with regularity. But then there's also instability and unpredictability in in hurricanes and lightning storms and tornadoes and hail and snow that God sends icy blasts. God can turn the surface of the earth as hot as an oven, like in Death Valley, California or in the Sahara Desert. in in on the Arabian peninsula where it's just so hot. Or he can make it as cold and frozen and hard As it is like in Siberia or Antarctica. God does all that. God covers parts of the earth with thick jungle that are teeming with life, where there are more species. in one square mile of the Amazon rainforest than you find in whole countries in other parts of the world. God is great. And part of what he just wants Job to know is that Job is asking for answers to questions that Job himself has no capacity to understand, to comprehend. Now at the beginning of Job, we were given this sort of backstory of Satan coming before God, but we're still not told exactly why it is that God engaged Satan in that conversation and why it is that God decided to allow Satan to have access to Job. We're never, in the whole book of Job, we're never really told the answer to the question why. Have you figured that out? Not really. Not like, what was God thinking? What was his purpose in this? Why would he do it? We're never told the answer to that question Because we're supposed to be following along with Job here in chapter 38 and realizing, oh We have no ability to even begin to comprehend the smallest of God's thoughts Knowing that He has created everything by the Word of His power. He upholds everything by the Word of His power. He governs all creation as the sovereign Lord. Matchless, without rival or peer. Infinite and eternal and unchangeable It is wisdom and power. Do we have any idea what that even means are words, right? Infinite. That means unlimited in space or expanse Eternal. No beginning, no end, forever. We can't even understand that. Unchangeable God never learns anything. He never finds something out that he didn't know already. He never forgets anything. He's unchangeable in his wisdom and power. How could he possibly tell us what he's thinking without it just completely obliterating our brain cells beyond Whatever. I mean, just it's not it's not even on the same order. Tell you what, go outside and get an ant. And teach it calculus. And if the ant you've taught calculus to can pass the AP Calculus BC exam then maybe you can start understanding some of the thoughts of God. And that actually your task teaching the ant would be easier. God is far beyond us. And so what Job needs is humility, and he's going to get it in full measure. But this is what God is doing. And it's not because he hates Job, it's because he loves him. And he's taking us along for the ride because he loves us too. And he wants us to realize there will never be an answer to the why question that can satisfy us that we can begin to understand. What we need the answer is the who question. Who is in charge of all of this? The one who made it all, the one who governs it all, the one who upholds it all, and the one who gave his son for us. the one who comes to us and comforts us beyond what any answer to a question could ever do for us. pray. Father, thank you for being to us the answer we need. Give us peace to rest in your sovereign care of us. We pray in Jesus' name Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Job 38. Tomorrow, I believe we're going back to the Gospel of John. I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.