Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 813th day together in the Word of God, and we're here in Job 21. As Job speaks of the reality that the wicked do indeed prosper, despite what his friends have said. Let's pray Father in heaven, please write Job 21 on our hearts. Please teach us your truth. Please help us to walk with humility and faith with Christ through this world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Then Job answered and said, Keep listening to my words, and let this be your comfort. Bear with me, and I will speak, and after I have spoken, mock on. As for me, is my complaint against man? Why should I not be impatient? Look at me and be appalled, and lay your hand over your mouth. When I remember I am dismayed, and shuddering seizes my flesh Why do the wicked live, reach old age, and grow mighty in power? Their offspring are established in their presence and their descendants before their eyes Their houses are safe from fear, and no rod of God is on them. Their bull breathes without fail, their cow calves, and does not miscarry. They send out their little boys like a flock, and their children dance, they sing to the tambourine and the lyre, and rejoice to the sound of the pipe. They spend their days in prosperity, and in peace they go down to Sheol. They say to God, Depart from us. We do not desire the knowledge of your ways. What is the Almighty that we should serve him? And what profit do we get if we pray to him? Behold, is not their prosperity in their hand? The counsel of the wicked is far from me. How often is it? That the lamp of the wicked is put out, that their calamity comes upon them, that God distributes pain in his anger. that they are like straw before the wind, and like chaff that the storm carries away. You say, God stores up their iniquity for their children. Let him pay it out to them that they may know it. Let their own eyes see their destruction, and let them drink the wrath of the Almighty. For what do they care for their houses after them? when the number of their months is cut off. Will any teach God knowledge, seeing that he judges those who are on high? One dies in his full vigor? Being wholly at ease and secure, his pails full of milk, and the marrow of his bones moist, another dies in bitterness of soul Never having tasted of prosperity, they lie down alike in the dust, and the worms cover them. Behold, I know your thoughts And your schemes to wrong me. For you say, Where is the house of the prince? Where is the tent in which the wicked lived? Have you not asked those who travel the roads? And do not accept their testimony that the evil man is spared in the day of calamity, and that he is rescued in the day of wrath? Who declares his way to his face? And who repays him for what he has done? When he is carried to the grave, watch is kept over his tomb, the claws of the valley are sweet to him All mankind follows after him, and those who go before him are innumerable. How then will you comfort me with empty nothings? There is nothing left of your answers but falsehood Job's tired of these guys. I mean he is tired of hearing from them these simplistic descriptions. of how God works in the world, especially when now his own very painful lived experience contradicts it and that opens his eyes to consider everything else that he's seen and experienced in his life and the fact that yeah Here he is. He says, look at me and be appalled. Lay your hand over your mouth. Look at me. I have nothing. All my children gone. All my livestock gone. My house is flattened My my skin eaten up with sores, sitting in the dust, scraping myself with shards of pottery. The only member of my family, my wife, who's sitting here telling me to curse God and die. And asking me why I insist on holding to my integrity. Have nothing. Be appalled at what I've been through and know that I don't have anything to do with the wicked. He says, I don't do anything with them. He says in verse 16, the counsel of the wicked is far from me. And these wicked, they mock God. Not only do they do bad things to other people, but they directly and openly mock God. What is the Almighty that we should serve Him? What profit do we get if we pray to Him? And yet, it seems like they just prosper. They live long lives, they live happy lives, they leave a rich inheritance to their children, their funerals are well attended. Maybe his children are cursed as a result of that, but what good is that if he himself does not see the calamity? Let their own eyes see their destruction. Let them drink the wrath of the Almighty. Verse 20. Well, what Job doesn't see and understand is what will be more fully revealed later in Scripture, and that is that God will judge the wicked. Those who forsake God, those who ignore God, those who reject God, will be judged by God personally themselves. In their own flesh with their own eyes, when they're resurrected at the end of time. See, uh, in Job 19, we looked at a few days ago, Job had his hope. that one day, even though his flesh was destroyed, even though his skin was destroyed, in his own flesh he would see God with his own eyes. Well that's true not only of Job and the righteous, but it's also true of the arrogant wicked who seem to get away with it their whole lives long, they too will be raised. They too will see God with their own eyes, but he will be their judge, their holy and righteous judge, and they will face the consequences of their attitude and their actions forever. One of the things about Job. The book of Job. One of the lessons we're supposed to learn is that as a Christian, as a believer, we cannot make sense out of the ways of God if we limit ourselves to only a this world perspective. Ecclesiastes Much the same thing. Ecclesiastes uses the phrase under the sun, right? What happens under the sun? That means what happens in this life, in this world, not in eternity, but in time and space on earth. What happens? Well, Ecclesiastes tells us a lot of times it seems crazy, contradictory. chasing after wind, a grasping of sand in the hand that just goes away. And here Job is telling us what I see See, his friends were saying, come on, man, whenever you see wicked people, it doesn't last long. And that's true. A lot of times, wicked people, their prosperity doesn't last long. If you make a habit of stealing from people and that's how you get your money, very oftentimes that will come back and bite you badly. But not all the time. Not all the time. Uh-uh. Not in this life. And so Job and Ecclesiastes are both telling us we need the eternal justice of God. We need judgment day. We need the eternal wrath of God as well as the eternal blessing of God. We need the resurrection. And the day of the Lord and judgment. We need it. God needs it. As much as we can say God needs, I mean, for for God's character, for his righteous character to be vindicated. For him to be the just judge of the world, he has decided he's going to raise everyone up on the last day, and everyone's going to be judged. and the wicked will depart from him into everlasting condemnation, and those who have hoped in him will be welcomed into their everlasting rest, and everything will be made right in the end. But before the end, we need to realize we live in a cursed and fallen world. This world is under the curse of God because of the rebellion of man, who is put in charge of this world We're going to get more into this on Sunday in the sermon that I'm going to be preaching out of Hebrews 2 to start us off for Holy Week. Jesus. came to restore humanity to a place of dignity, which we lost because of the fall So Job is frustrated, and rightly so, because in this life, in this world, we don't see justice. And This is a another another implication of this is that it's a warning against Christian utopianism. See, some Christians through the ages have said, well, we can so reform society through the gospel, we can so bring about reform that we can create true justice here in this world. We can create a truly just and equal society here in this life. And Job would tell us, mm-mm. You need to back off of thinking that way. You need to slow down and realize that that is not within your purview to be able to do that. God is greater He has an eternal justice. He will make things right in the end, but before that day, the world will often seem upside down, inside out, backwards, and messed up. Not because God is not good, but because God is cursing the world? Sometimes that means wicked rulers, but he's also withholding the final justice to give time for people to repent. pray. Father, thank you for your sovereign goodness. Whether we see it and understand it or not, it's true You are in control and you are good. Help us to trust you, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, tomorrow we're going to continue on into Job 22. And uh Eliphaz the Temanite is going to speak again. And so we'll take a look at that tomorrow. I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.