Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and it is day number 819, and we are back in the book of Job here for Job. 25 as Bildad, the Shuhite, answers back to Job again. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please bless our time together in your word today. Help us to be faithful to your truth. Help us to grow in humility and in faith and in Christ-likeness that we might walk more closely with Jesus and depend upon him more deeply, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Job chapter twenty-five. Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said, Dominion and fear are with God. He makes peace in his high heaven. Is there any number to his armies? Upon whom does his light not arise? How then can man be in the right before God? How can he who was born of woman be pure? Behold, even the moon is not bright, and the stars are not pure in his eyes, how much less man, who is a maggot, and the son of man, who is a worm Well, that's one of the shortest chapters in the book of Job, and it's a chapter that is absolutely true from beginning to end. Nothing that Bill Dad the Shoe Height here says is wrong. It's completely right. Think about it. Dominion and fear are with God. Does God not reign over all things? Of course he does. Are we not to fear and tremble before him as the sovereign of the universe? Of course we are. He makes peace in his high heaven. Yes, absolutely true Is there any number to his armies? No. I mean, we can talk about how Satan fell from heaven and took a third of the stars with him and two-thirds, but really it's numberless, myriads upon myriads, thousands times ten thousands are the armies of heaven. And God by Himself is just omnipotent, so there's no limit to his might. Upon whom does his light not arise? Everybody. Everybody in the world who lives and breathes. We live and breathe and have our being in him As the Apostle Paul said in Acts seventeen, quoting a Greek pagan poet actually. But we live and move and have our being in him. His light arises on the just and the unjust, as Jesus said, and he sends rain upon the righteous and the wrong. Then how can a man be in the right before God? We can't. How can he who is born of your woman be pure? We can't. Right? This is the dilemma. We are Not pure. We're sinful. We're sinful by nature. We're sinful by choice. We're sinful by thought and word and deed. We are not in the right before God. We are not pure. Even the moon is not bright. The stars are not pure in his eyes. The whole of creation has been tainted by the sin of man, of human beings. And so how much less man who is a maggot and the son of man who is a worm? How much less If all of creation is tainted by the curse of the fall, how much less the one who is the cause of that curse? The one who is a worm. Right? Did he devote that sacred head for such a worm as I? Now, this is all true. However, The problem with Bildad the Shuhite, and with all of Job's friends, as we've seen repeatedly, is their theology is sound Their application of that theology is terrible because they lack humility. He thinks that because he knows these true things, which are true, Then that means that basically he's in the right, and Job is in the wrong, and Job is really a desperately wicked sinner who needs to repent. And while Job is sinful, like all human beings, he is not a desperately wicked sinner who needs to repent in that sense, because he already is a man of God. He already is justified. He already is upright and blameless before God by faith. He has that faith in Christ that has justified him. So that is no longer who he is. Who he is in the eyes of God is one who is redeemed and dearly loved. And so Bildad the Shuhites presumption is not right. This reminds me of the Corinthian church. The Corinthians had some right theology. They knew that all the so-called gods of the people were nothing, that all of the idols of man were just were just images made by human hands and they weren't actually anything. They also knew that food doesn't really sanctify you or defile you one way or the other, as Jesus himself said, whatever you eat passes through your body and is expelled. Thus he declared all foods clean. That's in Mark chapter 7. So they knew those things the Corinthian church did. However The conclusion they then drew from that was, it's perfectly fine for us to go into the marketplace at the idol pagan temple and buy the meat that was sacrificed to the idol and eat it. or even to sit down in the temple court with our friends and feast on some good barbecue that was offered up to Aphrodite. I mean, there's no such thing as an Aphrodite. There's only one true God, and it's just food. It doesn't make you holy or unclean. True theology, terrible application. Because they were being a terrible witness. They were seen by the world as participating in Aphrodite worship when they sit down and eat those food, th those meats that were sacrificed to Aphrodite, for example, who were other gods in the city. There were thousands of temples across Corinth. And so right theology, bad application, right? Within reform circles, right? Within Calvinistic and Reform circles, sometimes we can say God is sovereign over salvation, God is the one who saves, God is the one who brings sinners to himself by his sovereign grace, by his power alone. And that is absolutely true. But then some people might use that as an excuse to say I don't need to preach the gospel. We don't need to send missionaries. We don't need to work hard to see the lost saved because God's going to do that. Wrong. Wrong application of a right theology. So, how do we avoid wrong applications of right theology? Never jump to a conclusion. from your theology that contradicts what is clearly in Scripture. In Scripture, clearly God's people were condemned whenever they ate food that was sacrificed to idols, whenever they participated in any way in idol worship. In Scripture, we are commanded to go and tell the gospel and make disciples and preach Jesus Christ. We're told to do that. And in the gospel, we are told that although we are sinners, although in and of ourselves we are worms and maggots We are pure in the eyes of God through the grace of God by the application of the righteousness of Christ received by faith. If we have faith in Jesus Christ, we are pure in the eyes of God. Now that's not that. Don't take that as an excuse for presumption and sin, because God never says, oh, go ahead and sin all you want. You're you're good you're good to go. No, that's again, that would be a wrong conclusion From a true theology. All of our sin, past, present, and future, was taken away at the at the cross. The blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sin. We are holy in the eyes of God. We are even perfect in the eyes of God. But a wrong conclusion would be, well, we can sin all we want and still have remission. No. That type of blatant presumption and willful rebellion is not the sign of a changed heart, of a regenerate soul. So don't draw conclusions from your theology that directly contradict Scripture is one thing, and the other thing is to be humble. And Christ-centered. Humble, not thinking too highly of yourself, Christ-centered, making much of Christ. That's how you avoid making bad conclusions from otherwise sound theology We say he is the Savior. He is the righteous one. He is my Lord. He's the one I want to please. I don't have the answers. I can't just figure it out on my own. I'm gonna depend on him. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for this word today that brings us truth and brings us correction. Correct us. from our pride and our presumption, that we might walk humbly with Jesus day by day. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Job 25. Tomorrow we have a little longer section of Job. We're going to go on to Job 26 together. Have a blessed day in the Lord.