Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Demel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 797th day together in the Word of God, and that brings us to Job chapter 11. Job 11. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this book of Job that we've been in and have been challenged by and have been comforted by. Father, help us to see your hand at work and to hear your voice and to receive your wisdom and to draw closer to Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Zophar's turned to speak, the third of Job's friends. Then Zophar the Namathite answered and said, Should a multitude of words go unanswered? And a man full of talk be judged right? Should your babel silence men? And when you mock, shall no one shame you? For you say, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in God's eyes, but oh that God would speak and open his lips to you, and that he would tell you the secrets of wisdom. For he is manifold in understanding. Know then that God exacts of you less than your guilt deserves. Can you find out the deep things of God? Can you find out the limit of the Almighty? It is higher than heaven. What can you do? Deeper than Sheol, what can you know? Its measure is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea. If he passes through and imprison and summons the court, who can turn him back? for he knows worthless men. When he sees iniquity, will he not consider it? But a stupid man will get understanding when a wild donkey's colt is born a man. If you prepare your heart, you will stretch out your hands toward him. If iniquity is in your hand, put it far away. And let not injustice dwell in your tent. Surely then you will lift up your face without blemish. You will be secure and will not fear. You will forget your misery, you will remember it as waters that have passed away, and your life will be brighter than the noonday. Its darkness will be like the morning And you will feel secure, because there is hope. You will look around and take your rest in security. You will lie down, and none will make you afraid, and many will court your favor But the eyes of the wicked will fail. All way of escape will be lost to them, and their hope is to breathe their last. Oh, so far, if only life were that simple. And that really is the problem with Job's friends. You think, um, yeah, but Life's not that easy, right? Should we strive after holiness in conduct? Yes. Should we repent of our sin. Yes. Should we examine ourselves when we think we're in the right, but we're not sure, should we examine ourselves and and search our hearts and see And ask the Spirit, right? See if there be any wicked way in me and lead me in the way everlasting, as Psalm 139 concludes. Yes. All of that. Is it true that God blesses and protects and provides for his children who are trusting in him? Yes. Is it true that God punishes the wicked? Yes, is God just? Absolutely. But life in a fallen world As sinful people, as creatures, limited in our understanding, when we look at things and when we see things It is not simple. It is beyond our understanding. And so Zofar the Namothite is lacking humility. He is lacking um empathy and humility, both. And I think for too many of us as Christians We are sorely lacking in those two virtues that we really need: empathy and humility. Job has said that he is clean, that he's innocent Because as far as Job knows, he is clean and innocent. But get this, we know even more than Job knows. We've seen behind the curtain into the courtroom of God, into the assembly room. of the throne room of God, and we've heard God himself say that Job is blameless and upright. Blameless and upright. God has nothing against Job. No blamable offense against him. So Job is speaking the truth. But Zophar thinks there's no way that any of this would be happening to Job if Job were innocent. In fact, he goes so far as to say with an arrogant confidence that is just stunning in verse 6. Know then that God exacts of you less than your guilt deserves. Wow. Think about that. Now here's where right theology, wrongly applied, wrongly processed. approached without appropriate levels of humility and empathy, right theology can lead to some horrible counsel. We know, doctrinally from Scripture, that all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. We know that there is no one righteous, not even one. We know that every sin deserves the wrath and curse of God. We know these things to be true. But if you're counseling someone who's in suffering, Someone who's in Job's situation, who is a believer, who trusts in the Lord, who's tried their best to live a faithful life as a believer. And something horrible comes to them, loss of a child, loss of a job, cancer You don't go to them and you say, what you should know is that what's happening to you right now is less than what your guilt deserves No, you don't say that to someone. It's unloving, it's unkind, it's arrogant, it's presumptuous, and just not something you should say Again, in verse 7, can you find out the deep things of God? Can you find out the limit of the Almighty It is higher than heaven, what can you do? Deeper than Sheol, what can you know? That's true. That is a theological truth that Zophar himself should have been listening to Right? Sometimes I think Job's friends they make two major errors when they're speaking because a lot of what they say is theologically correct, right? It's theologically correct, but it's very badly applied because it's lacking love, it's lacking humility, it's lacking empathy. But it's also they're not listening to their own words. They're not taking to heart the very things that they are saying. Because right after this, he tries to say that as long as you're trusting in God As long as you prepare your heart, you stretch out your hands toward him, and you've put away iniquity, right? Then, verse 17, your life will be brighter than the noonday And its darkness will be like the morning, and you will feel secure, because there's hope. You'll lie down, and none will make you afraid. Really? You know, in order to be able to say that, in order to be able to say, if you would just trust God, and you would just put your iniquity away from you, and you would just stretch out your hands to Him, your life is going to be wonderful. Secure, blessed, peaceful, trouble-free. In order to say that, you would have to be able to understand the ways of God. You would have to be able to find out the deep things of God and find out the limit of the Almighty. It is beyond us. And that means it's beyond Zophar, just as much as it's beyond Job You can't say, well, if you do this, then this will definitely happen. And if you act this way, God will definitely do that, because you don't know. You can't understand all of God's reasonings for doing what he does. And then verse twenty is also true, but It's also not true. Right? The eyes of the wicked will fail, all way of escape will be lost to them, and their hope is to breathe their last. What do I mean by that to true, but it's also not true? In an eternal sense, right, when when they come to stand before the judgment seat of God, The wicked, that is those who don't believe, those who are opposed to God, they will fail, and all way of escape will be lost to them And their hope will be to just be able to breed their last. Absolutely that is true. But Zofhar is trying to apply it to a this world, this life thing. And you and I both know lots and lots of wicked people who have no interest in God or the things of God and who live pretty happy lives. Their lives seem to be, from a human perspective, brighter than the noonday, and they feel secure, and they feel like they have hope, and they feel like they're secure And they're not living their life in fear, and many are courting their favor. We know who these people are, right? The rich, the powerful, the influential, most of whom do not know God at all and don't care. and their lives seem to be going just swimmingly fine. So while verse 20 is true in an eternal sense, it is often not true in a temporal sense due to reasons that we don't understand. due to reasons that we don't understand. So again, if you're in a position where you can counsel someone, especially someone who's going through suffering, Listen much, say little, try to be encouraging and kind and loving. Pray for them, pray with them. Don't presume. And make sure that what you're saying is not lacking in love or empathy or humility. And make sure that you are Trying your best, right? To listen to the words that are being said if you're speaking the truth and take them to heart for yourself first, right? What did Jesus say? Don't try to help your brother with the speck in his eye when you got a big old log sticking out of your eye. Get the plank out of your own eye, and then you can help your brother. That's what Zophar needed to do. Zophar had said some beautiful things about how you can't know the ways of God. Well, okay, Zophar, then get the plank out of your own eye before you try to help Job with the speck in his Let's pray. Father, thank you for this word. Thank you for your wisdom, which is surpassing all human understanding. Put together times infinity. You you just know and and see and understand everything so much better than we do. And we're so finite. Give us love And humility and empathy toward one another give us faith in you, trust beyond what our eyes can see If we're suffering, help us to suffer with patience and hope. If we're counseling those who are suffering, help us to counsel with love. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Job 11. Tomorrow we're going to be jumping over to Proverbs, picking up Proverbs twenty-two. Have a blessed day in the Lord.