Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 795th day together in God's Word, and we're here in Job chapter 10. Job is just pouring out his heart in pleading before God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we come to Job 10, we pray that you would make this word understandable to our minds. And soften our hearts to receive it. Help us to know how to how to pray and live faithfully. in the midst of suffering, and how to minister faithfully to others in the midst of their suffering. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Job chapter 10. I loathe my life. I will give free utterance to my complaint. I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. I will say to God, Do not condemn me. Let me know why you contend against me. Does it seem good to you to oppress? To despise the work of your hands and favor the designs of the wicked? Have you eyes of flesh? Do you see as man sees, are your days as the days of man, or your years, as a man's years, that you seek out my iniquity and search for my sin, although you know that I am not guilty? and there is none to deliver out of your hand? Your hands fashioned and made me, and now you have destroyed me altogether. Remember that you have made me like clay And will you return me to the dust? Did you not pour me out like milk, and curdle me like cheese? You clothed me with skin and flesh, and knit me together with bones and sinews. You have granted me life and steadfast love, and your care has preserved my spirit Yet these things you hid in your heart. I know that this was your purpose. If I sin, you watch me, and do not acquit me of my iniquity. If I am guilty, woe to me. If I am in the right, I cannot lift up my head, for I am filled with disgrace and look upon on my affliction. And were my head lifted up You would hunt me like a lion and again work wonders against me. You renew your witnesses against me and increase your vexation toward me. You bring fresh troops against me. Why did you bring me out from the womb? Would that I had died before any eye had seen me, and were as though I had not been carried from the womb to the grave Are not my days few? Then cease, and leave me alone that I may find a little cheer before I go. And I shall not return to the land of darkness and deep shadow, the land of gloom and thick darkness, like deep shadow without any order, where light is thick, is as thick darkness. Job ten. Job is being painfully and brutally honest before God. I think that's one lesson we've already seen in Job, and I'll probably say it a bunch more times before we get to the end, but God is not afraid of our honesty as long as we're going to him with it. Notice we're going to him with with it. This is what Job is doing. Job is going to God with his pain. He's not complaining about God. He's complaining to God. He's not sinning against God. He's pouring out his heart before God. He doesn't understand. Because he's a human being, he doesn't understand, and he knows that there's this massive gap between him and God, and that he doesn't understand the ways of God. And so he knows that this is the cause of his distress, but it the bitterness is real. The complaint is real. It seems to him that God is oppressing him and despises him when actually God favors him. God loves him, but it feels, because of his external circumstances, it feels like God despises him and is oppressing him Again, in some ways, Job shows us both our need for Christ and is a type of Christ, in that Job shows us our need, right? He needs God to empathize, to be able to relate to him. He needs this arbiter, this mediator, because he asks these questions. Have you eyes of flesh? Do you see as man sees? Are your days as days of a man? Well, no, right? They're not. God, in that sense, God as God cannot really empathize with us or relate to us or have this uh sympathetic nature to him because he doesn't feel what we feel, right? Sympathy and empathy are basically synonyms, essentially. I know a lot of people make a big deal about the distinction between the two. Just trust me, linguistically, historically, there's not a big difference between the two. Sympathy, empathy both mean to feel what someone else is feeling and to have uh to feel alongside with them. And God as God doesn't do that. God doesn't have the same kinds of feelings that we do. He doesn't understand what it is to be human. And so here, Job is showing us our need for Christ, our need for the God man, not only as an arbiter, but as someone who is God and who can be empathetic. who can know what we are experiencing. This is all fleshed out in Hebrews when Jesus is described to us as our merciful and faithful high priest in the things of God. But he's also a type of Christ, in that he's actually favored by God. He's actually God's chosen one. God chose to boast about Job to Satan. to show him what a man of faith and what a man of faithfulness and what a righteous man looks like. And so he's actually favored by God, but it looks like he's oppressed, right? This is Isaiah 53 in the Song of the Suffering Servant. We're told that it seems like he was despised and rejected not only by men. But we consider him smitten, afflicted by God, and rejected by him. And so this is what what Job appears to be someone who is despised by God as well as sort of men standing back agape at the horror of what he's suffering. So he shows us our need for Christ and he is a a type of Christ. But he's an Old Testament saint, so even if he's a type of Christ, he's living in a place where he doesn't have very much revelation. We don't know how much Bible Job has. Job has an understanding of God for his place in redemptive history. He has faith in God. But he doesn't fully understand. He knows that he's made like clay and that he'll return to the dust. What he doesn't understand is anything about the afterlife beyond just darkness, just sort of an unknown. So at the end of this chapter, when he talks about death, he says Are not my days few? Then cease, and leave me alone, that I may find a little cheer before I go, and I shall not return to the land of darkness, and deep shadow, the land of gloom, like thick darkness, like deep shadow without any order. where light is as thick darkness. This is a very incomplete very partial, very dim understanding of the afterlife. And part of what Christ does in his resurrection is he not only throws open the door to eternal life for all who believe in him, but he also shines light upon what it means to be. a departed saint, that we go to be with him in paradise. As he said to the thief on the cross who confessed faith in him, this day Today you will be with me in paradise. And then the Apostle Paul could say later, to live is Christ and to die is gain. in uh Philippians chapter 1, and then in 2 Corinthians 5 you could say, to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. So we know now because of Christ that when we die, we're with him in paradise. It's Gain, death is gain, and to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. But that's not something that Job would have understood. In the parable of Lazarus and the rich man that Jesus told in the Gospels, the rich man dies and he's in a place of suffering, a place of torment. Lazarus dies, and he's carried away by the angels to Abraham's bosom, and he's there with Abraham. But we're not told he's in the direct presence of God. He's in Sheol, the afterlife, but it's a place it's not a place of suffering or torment, it's a place where he has water and he's at rest. But he's waiting. Right? So this is this Old Testament concept. So Job is for us, shows us our need for Christ, is a type of Christ, but he also shows us How much better it is to live on this side of the cross where we understand how much better it is for us to die and to go home and to be with the Lord and be in the presence of the Lord and He doesn't have that comfort. So part of what comforts a Christian in affliction is to know The affliction is short-lived, and even if it lasted the rest of my life, when this life is over, I will go and be with Christ, I will be in paradise, I will be with the Lord, and that will be good, that will be very good But Job doesn't have that kind of assurance yet. So lacking a mediator, lacking a sympathetic high priest. and lacking knowledge of the afterlife leaves him in a place where his pain he can pour out before God in honesty, in brutal honesty. But he doesn't have as much resources for what to do about it, to what to what to believe about it, how to hope through it. And so we can respect Job, but we can also be thankful. That not only have we not suffered as much as Job has suffered, and we haven't. None of us have suffered as much as Job suffered. We also, even if we had that level of suffering, we wouldn't need to be in as dark a place spiritually as Job. And whenever we suffer, we're not in as dark a place spiritually as Job. Because Jesus has come. And he is the arbiter. And he is a sympathetic and faithful high priest, and he has opened the doorway to paradise. He has overcome sin and death and we live in the light of the cross and the empty tomb, and we live under the covering of the perpetual intercession of the God man, the faithful high priest, the Lord. Jesus Christ. So when you get to Job 10, it should give you empathy for people who are suffering But it should also give you hope that you can have for yourself and you can offer to others that in the light of Christ and his resurrection and his intercession. We don't need to be in the depth of despair that Job was, even if we were to suffer as bad as Job. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do suffer, and we're not God. We don't see the whole picture. We don't understand. And sometimes we have to come to you in all honesty and say, Lord, I don't get it. I don't understand. I'm hurting. And I don't see the purpose, and it feels like you're against me. And we can pour those things out before you, but we can know. In Christ, we can know. That God is for us. And if God is for us, who can be against us? And in Christ we can know that Emmanuel, God with us, has come. And in Christ we can know That we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. And we can know that when this life is over, we will be with you in paradise. What a blessing. What hope and strength, and what a cost you paid to give it to us. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that is Job chapter 10. And tomorrow we're going to go to 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day. in the Lord, in the risen Lord, who gives us hope in this life and the life to come.