Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word One Chapter per Day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Benwell from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our eight hundred and seventeenth day together in the Word of God, and we're in Job 24. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for this book of Job. Thank you for every part of Thank you for your faithfulness to speak to us day by day. Please write Job twenty-four on our hearts. Please help us to see the need for justice in the world and to long for the coming of Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Job 24. So Job's in the middle of a discourse here where he's responding to Eliphaz and he's saying Eliphaz accused him of awful, horrible sin, and he just sort of pushes that aside and is like, Look, if I could talk to God, I know that I'd be vindicated because I actually treasure his words More than food. But I want to be indicated. Well, twenty four, the continuation of this speech continues by showing why else Job wants there to be a judgment day, a day of vindication, a day of wrongs made right. So here it is, Job twenty-four. Why are not times of judgment kept And why do those who know him never see his days? pasture them, they drive away the donkey of the fatherless, they take the widow's ox for a pledge. They thrust the poor off the road. The poor of the earth all hide themselves Behold, like wild donkeys in the desert, the poor go out to their toil seeking game, the wasteland yields food for their children. There are those who snatch the fatherless child from the breast, and they take a pledge against the poor. They go about naked without clothing, hungry, they carry the sheaves, among the olive rows of the wicked they make oil, they tread the winepresses, but suffer thirst. From out of the city the dying Light, who are not acquainted with its ways, and do not stay in its paths, the murderer rises before it is light, that he may kill the poor and needy. And in the night he is like a thief. The eye of the adulterer also waits for the twilight, saying, No eye will see me, and he veils his face. In the dark they dig through houses By day they shut themselves up. They do not know the light, for deep darkness is morning to all of them, for they are friends with the terrors of deep darkness. Darkness, you say Swift are they on the face of the waters, their portion is cursed in the land. No treader turns toward their vineyards. Drought and heat snatch away the snow waters. So does Sheol those who have sinned. The womb forgets them, the worm finds them sweet, they are no longer remembered, so wickedness is broken like a tree. Show me that there is nothing in what I say. Well very briefly, what we see here in Job twenty-four is Job crying out for In twenty-three we looked at yesterday, Job was wanting the vindication. But here he's looking more at the same time. Who do seem to get away with it in this life? There's no kind of equitable justice punishment Consequence that seems fitting to the crime of the wicked in this life, at least not consistently. Yes, there are times when people do foolish things, wicked things and they fall into their own trap and they suffer from their own decisions. That happens. But not all the time. We know that. Sometimes the wealthy people, the wicked wealthy oppressors, we should be clear. Not all wealthy people are wicked and oppressors, but. But the wealthy wicked oppressors sometimes they move landmarks, they seize flocks, they drive away the donkey of the fatherless, they take the widow's ox for a pledge. It's a gross violation of justice, they thrust the poor off the road. They just roll over poor people who are powerless to stand in their way. And nothing seems to happen to them. There doesn't seem to be anything of consequence that happens. And so Job Is saying, if God is truly just and God is truly sovereign, then we need to see his hand. He says, Yet God charges no one with wrong. So this I've said this before in Job. This is one of the major messages of this book. It's one of the major messages of the Bible. If there's no final judgment day coming, if there's no eternity ahead of us, Where those who trust in God are vindicated and are brought into paradise, into the new heavens and the new earth And those who have rejected God, those who have willfully despised His law, those who have oppressed the poor, if the Wicked are not judged forever. If that doesn't happen, then there's something fundamentally wrong with the character of God and the nature of his justice. That's what Joseph So again, what we see Job is he's an Old Testament saint. He's living well over a thousand years before Jesus, probably closer to two thousand years before Jesus. He doesn't have nearly as much knowledge as we do. Probably Job and his friends had no scripture that we're aware of. They just had an awareness of God that was given to them by grace. They're you know, that's the best evidence they don't call God Yahweh, they don't use the covenant name of the Lord, they don't directly quote scriptures, but they Do you seem to have an understanding of God and of justice? Because, as Romans 2 tells us, even those who don't have the law have the law of God written on their heart. And even those who don't have the scripture know that there's a God who's eternal in power. And so Job and his friends are true believers, or Job is at least a true believer. And so he knows. He's crying out with a need. Something has to be done. To those who rebel against the light, to those who murder, to those who kill. To those who are adulterers, who are unrepentant. They don't trust God. They're never broken. Something has to happen. And he's right. And Jesus will feeling down and rejected. Jesus is a friend. You can cry on his shoulder. He'll put his arms around you, make you feel better. He'll help you through whatever it is Going through, you know, that kind of thing. We call that the gospel. That's not really the gospel. The gospel is that Jesus is Lord And that he has provided real salvation for those who trust in him. Salvation from sin and death and eternal judgment, which means. For those who are not in Christ, for those who continue to rebel against God, for those who continue to choose their own selfish ways, sin and death and eternal judgment are coming and they are real. That's part of the gospel. We need to believe all of what God says and not just try to make it sort of a warm fuzzy blanket that you can wrap around. You on a cold night. The gospel is the truth of God in all its fullness, and that includes a needed, a necessary Judgment. Because in this life sometimes murderers get away, and they die of old age and natural causes. Sometimes in this life, dictators and oppressors get away with it. And they die of old age and natural causes at peace in their beds. But that will not be the last word. King Jesus The judge of all the earth will do right, and he will have the final word. Father, we tremble at your holiness and your justice, and we are so Thankful that Jesus is our Savior. Help us to cling to Jesus and tell the world about Jesus. Help us to love what is good and to hate what is evil. Knowing that you are pure and holy. It's in Jesus' name we pray these things. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Job 24 tomorrow, another short New Testament book. This was the book of Philemon on tap for tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.