Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Beth Emmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 814th day together in the Word of God. Back in the book of Job, Job 22. Just about halfway through the book of Job, chapter 38, begins the conclusion of this wonderful book. This is a third uh cycle of conversation between Job and his friends, as Job has complained now for the third time, and Eliphaz. The Temanite is going to accuse him of wickedness now for the third time. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this word. Thank you for the book of Job. Thank you for the For the ways it's challenged us. We pray that your word would transform us to be more like Jesus, our Savior, as we spend time meditating before you. And Jesus Name we pray. Amen. Job 22. Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, Can a man be profitable to God? Surely he who is wise is profitable to himself. Is it any pleasure to the Almighty if you are in the right, or is it gain to him if you make your way blameless? Is it for your fear of him that he reproves you or enters into judgment with you? Is not your evil abundant There is no end to your iniquities, for you have exacted pledges of your brothers for nothing and stripped the naked of their clothing. You have given no water to the weary to drink, and you have withheld bread from the hungry. The man with power possessed the land, and the favored man lived in it You have sent widows away hungry, empty, and the arms of the fatherless were crushed, therefore snares are all around you. And sudden terror overwhelms you, and darkness or darkness so that you cannot see, and a flood of water covers you. Is not God high in the the heavens. See the highest stars, how lofty they are. But you say, what does God know? Can he judge through the deep darkness? Thick clouds veil him so that he does not see, and he walks on the vault of heaven Will you keep to the old way that wicked men have trod? They were snatched away before their time. Their foundation was washed away They said to God, Depart from us, and what can the Almighty do to us? Yet he filled their houses with good things But the counsel of the wicked is far from me. The righteous see it and are glad. The innocent one mocks at them, surely, saying, Surely our adversaries are cut off, and what they left the fire has consumed Agree with God and be at peace. Thereby good will come to you. Receive instruction from his mouth and lay up his words in your heart If you return to the Almighty, you will be felt up. porrant bed. Then the Almighty will be your gold, and your precious silver. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty, and lift up your face to God. You will make your prayer to Him. And he will hear you, and you will pay your vows, you will decide on a matter, and it will be established for you, and light will shine on your ways. For when they are humbled, you say Say it is because of pride, but he saves the lowly. He delivers even the one who is not innocent, who will be delivered through the cleanness of your hands Good old Eliphaz the Timonite. Boy, he thinks he knows a lot, doesn't he? And he does know a lot, because he the way he speaks about the wicked is it has some truth to it. We've said this before. This is uh Job's friends are not dumb, they're not ignorant, they're not atheist, they're not completely, you know Wrong-headed, they say a lot of true things, but they speak out of presumption. And here Eliphaz has gone the farthest to be even just totally explicit in falsely accusing Job. Before some of their dialogue, some of Eliphaz and some of the other uh friends of Job Job would sort of hint and they would say, Oh, it's you know, Job, it's only the wicked who are really suffering that badly. The righteous are upheld. And and they didn't necessarily always come But here he comes out and says it in verse five is not your evil abundant There is no end to your iniquities, for you have exacted pledges of your brothers for nothing and stripped the nation He's making very clear, very bold, and very specific and very false accusations of Job. Job hasn't done any of these things. He's not guilty of any of this kind of sin. But Eliphaz assumes that he must be, and now he boldly claims That he has been and is guilty of these things, because why else would he be suffering in this way? Right? He makes this, he connects the dots that he thinks are there, and he misses out on the wonderful sovereignty of God that is so complex and so sophisticated and so beyond human understanding as to be ungraspable by us. So He does say some good things about God, and he does have an accurate understanding of how wicked people tend to think. Right? The wicked tend to think that God doesn't see, doesn't know, and won't do anything about their actions. And you can see this in the world in which we live in, right? The world we live in, which is full of all sorts of wickedness that is directly opposed to the the word of God, where things like what Eliphaz is accusing do happen regularly in our world, and they always have. They've been happening for hundreds, thousands of years. People in our culture though, they say, well, if there is a God, he's just this higher power who made the world and then isn't really all that involved with it. So he doesn't really know He doesn't really see, you know, like verse 14, thick clouds veil him so that he does not see. He walks in the vault of heaven. Remember years ago that Midler had that song from a distance Right. From the just from a distance the world looks blue and green and the snow capped mountains white. Like you see that image from the International Space Station or from the Space Shuttle, people on their spacewalks. The world just looks beautiful and peaceful from a distance. And then she says, God is watching us from a distance. Well, that's not true. That song is not honoring to God and is not. Accurate, right? God is not watching us from a distance where he can't see and can't know. God knows the innermost thoughts of our hearts and minds, our motivations, back So the wicked say God's far away and doesn't see and doesn't know, but then they also say God's kind of power And the reason why the wicked reason that way is actually pretty similar to Eliphaz's reasoning, and that is you see a world in which wicked And if God saw everything, and if God was Almighty, surely He would do something about it. So what's interesting here is that Eliphaz himself, in presuming to understand the sovereign ways of God, He falsely accuses Job of thinking and reasoning the way that the wicked do, but actually he himself is guilty of thinking and reasoning. The way the wicked do. So again, if you missed it, I'll give it to you again. The wicked think and reason as if God is at a distance, He doesn't see, He doesn't Know, he doesn't understand, he won't repay because they see a world in which wicked people get away with bad things And the exploitation of the poor is a very profitable way to become wealthy and successful. And so they say, well, God either doesn't see or doesn't know or can't Act, right? Eliphaz says, because he does think that God sees and knows and can act, therefore all the wicked are punished. And the righteous are rewarded. You see, both of those mindsets are trying to reduce God to a level that we can contain within our time. Of the world, then the wicked would only be oh always be punished and the righteous would always be rewarded. That's the same mindset that the wicked have as Eliphazatimanite has Only the wicked, because they know that wicked people get away with stuff all the time, they reason that God either God either doesn't know or can't do it. Eliphaz wants to begin by reasoning that God must know and God can do about it, and so therefore he incorrectly concludes that the wicked are always Punished and the righteous always rewarded in this life. What both of them are missing is what Job understands better. Now, Job's not 100% correct. Job has said some things that were also full of presumption. Because Job's understanding is limited. God's going to show up in chapter 38 and start correcting Job. But at the end of it all, God's going to say of Job that Job has spoken better of God than his friend Because Job has at least confessed God is sovereign, God is in control, and I don't deserve this because I haven't done anything in particular. Claiming to be sin free, again he's not a sinless man, but he's saying I haven't done anything in particular in my life. He's not doing any of this stuff, right? And so he says, This is all beyond me. God hates me for no reason. I don't get it. He at least is humble enough to say, I don't No, he's he's angry and upset and he says some things that he shouldn't say, but he never curses God and he never claims to understand it all. And that's where Eliphaz and the wicked have this in common. They both think that somehow they can just reason their way to a full understanding of the world. And that That's not how the world works. That's not how God works. So this invitation that Eliphaz gives at the end of this chapter, agree with God and be at peace, thereby good will come to you Receive instruction from his mouth and lay up his words in your heart. If you return to the Almighty you will be built up, if you remove injustice far from your tents. True, but not right. is a believer. So he doesn't need to return to God and remove injustice from his tents. He's never left Left God, and injustice is not in his tent. And yet, as a call to the wicked, this is true enough. Agree with God and be at peace. And the good will be the Almighty, right? That the Almighty will be your gold and your precious silver. You can delight yourself in the Almighty and lift your face up. To God and he'll hear you. Yes, that's true, right? And yet, he presumes Because he thinks he can tell by Job's outward circumstances what the state of his heart is. And I just want us to acknowledge that we can all be guilty of this. We can all be guilty of thinking that when we see someone's outward circumstances, they're Dealing with a rebellious child. They've lost their job. They have a hard time keeping a job. They are struggling, right? in some way, that we can all be guilty of seeing someone's external circumstances, things we're able to observe, and jump to conclusions about their character. And if we learn anything else from the book of Job, let's learn to stop doing that. Let's learn to stop thinking that we can sit as out Outside observers looking at someone's life and even begin to understand what they're really like as a person, what they're really going through, or why they're going through through it. Those things are known only to God ultimately. And our approach needs to be one that's much more humble and gentle and loving. Let's pray Father, forgive us, forgive me for the times when I, Father, have looked at people and have judged. I've made a son. And conclusions that were way off base because I'm not God and I don't know everything. I don't even know what I think I know. Which even that is just a tiny fraction of what you know. So humble us. Help us to trust you. Help us to delight ourselves in you, for you are good, and help us to trust your goodness when the word And in eternity it will be clear. Until that day, help us to walk Walk by faith and not by sight. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Job 22. Tomorrow we're going to be in the book of Jude. One chapter, one day for Jude, and that's tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord