Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are on our 803rd day together in the Word of God, and we're in Job 15 and also Psalm 118. Let's pray. Father in heaven. You're good. Your goodness never fails. Even when we suffer, even when we seemingly suffer for no good reason that we can perceive. When your ways are far beyond us and mysterious, you remain unchangeably good. Speak to us through your word today, and help us to see you clearly. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, we've got before us today Job 15 and Psalm 118. We're going to spend the majority of our time. Today in Psalm 118, because many of the things in Job we've already been talking about. But let's hear again from Eliphaz the Temanite, who answered and said, Should a man be wise, should hmm Maybe if I can learn to read, that would be helpful. Let's try it again. Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, Should a wise man answer with windy knowledge and fill his belly with the east wind? Should he argue in unprofitable talk, or in words with which he can do no good? For you are doing away with the fear of God, and hindering meditation before God For your iniquity teaches your mouth, and you choose the tongue of the crafty. Your own mouth condemns you, and not I, your own lips testify against you. Are you the first man who was born? Or were you brought forth before the hills? Have you listened in the counsel of God, and do you limit wisdom to yourself? What do you know that we do not know? And what do you understand that is not clear to us? Both the grey-haired and the aged are among us, older than your father. Are the comforts of God too small for you? Or the word that deals gently with you? Why does your heart carry you away, and why do your eyes flash? that you turn your spirit against God and bring such words out of your mouth. What is man that he can be pure? Or he who is born of woman that he can be righteous, behold, God puts no trust in his holy ones. And the heavens are not pure in his sight, how much less one who is abominable and corrupt A man who drinks in justice like water. I will show you, hear me, and what I have seen I will declare what wise men have told, without hiding it from their fathers, to whom alone the land was given, and no stranger passed among them. The wicked man writhes in pain all his days through all the ears that are laid up for the ruthless. Dreadful sounds are in his ears in prosperity the destroyer will come upon him. He does not believe that he will return out of darkness, and he is marked for the sword. He wanders abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? He knows that a day of darkness is ready at his hand. Distress and anguish terrify him, they prevail against him, like a king ready for battle, because He has stretched out his hand against God and defies the Almighty, running stubbornly against him with a thickly bossed shield. because he has covered his face with his fat, and gathered fat upon his waist, and has lived in desolate cities and houses that none should inhabit, which were ready to become heaps of ruins, he will not be rich and his wealth will not endure, nor will his possessions spread over the earth. He will not depart from darkness, the flame will dry up his shoots, and by the breath of his mouth he will depart. Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself. For emptiness will be his payment. It will be paid in full before his time. and his branch will not be green, he will shake off his unripe grape like the vine, and cast off his blossoms like the olive tree. for the company of the godless is barren, and fire consumes the tents of bribery. They conceive trouble and give birth to evil, and their womb prepares deceit That's Job 15. So says Eliphaz the Temanite. Let's just consider briefly what he's saying here. He's really rebuking Job for the past few chapters that we looked at before when we were in Job. He's accusing him of empty talk that lacks the fear of the Lord. But as we looked at those chapters, we actually saw that Job does. acknowledge the sovereignty of God over all things. And Job does even acknowledge his own sin. But he is not a wicked man. And that really is The crux of the matter here. Is Job a sinner? Yes. Has Job sinned? Yes. Was he iniquitous in his youth? Yes. Is he still sinful by nature? Yes. But he's a believer who has sought to honor the Lord with his life, who's who has believed God. Right? And so so so much of what Eliphaz says here again is based upon presumption. First of all, he's just rebuking Job and saying, You're not the first man born, you're not the oldest among us, we're older than you. Are the comforts of God too small for you and the word that deals gently with you? Why are you complaining? Why are you moaning before God? Why are you demanding justice? What is man that he can be pure, or he who is born of woman that he can be righteous? True. Yes, that is true. Again, so much of what Job's friends say is theologically true, but the application is way off because of presumption. And we really get the application starting in verse 20 with the wicked man. And you have to understand, Eliphaz the Temanite here, from verse 20 to the end, he thinks in his mind he's describing Job. Job is the wicked man. That's why he's writhing in pain. That's why all the uh store-up of the years, all the years, all the harvest after harvest and flock after flock, all that is laid up for the ruthless. The ruthless have already come in, right? The Sabaeans and the and the and the Chaldeans, they've come in and they've taken it away. So he's thinking that he's talking about Job. But he's not. And so again, as we saw before, if we're going to be wise and useful godly counselors for those who are in distress, we cannot begin with the assumption. That if someone is in distress, it's because they're wicked. We also cannot assume that we know anyone's heart. Now, are all people sinful? Yes. Does sin have consequences? Yes. But the truth of the matter is that in this world oftentimes the wicked flourish and prosper and are happy and at ease. See Psalm 73, right? Read Psalm 73. Or it's also true that oftentimes the righteous who trust God and are righteous by faith, there's only one way to be righteous before God, that's by faith. in the Messiah, which even Job had this faith in the Messiah. It's an Old Testament faith. It's a it's a a vague faith in terms of knowledge, but it's a strong and true faith. And the righteous often suffer and often suffer grievously. And so trying to assume that you can understand someone's situation or their heart. is beyond human understanding and there needs to be much more sympathy and much more empathy toward believers who are suffering. Alright, let's go to Psalm 118. Psalm 118 is a psalm of thanksgiving. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Let Israel say his steadfast love endures forever. Let the house of Aaron say his steadfast love endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord say, His steadfast love endures forever. Out of my distress I called on the Lord The Lord answered me and set me free. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do to me? The Lord is on my side as my helper. I shall look in triumph on those who hate me It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. All nations surrounded me. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me like bees. They went out like a fire among thorns. In the name of the Lord I cut them off. I was pushed hard so that I was falling, but the Lord helped me The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly, the right hand of the Lord exalts, the right hand of the Lord does valiantly. I shall not die, but I shall live, and recount the deeds of the Lord. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray. Give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. The Lord is God And he has made his light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. You are my God. I will give thanks to you. You are my God. I will extol you. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. The opening and closing of Psalm 118 is a very common refrain from Old Testament worship, and it's one that we should still remember and pray and rejoice and sing today. We give thanks to God for two reasons. The Lord, the Lord, the great I Am, the unchanging, all-sufficient one, who never fails and never turns. He is good, unchangeably good, self-sufficiently good, eternally good, the same yesterday, today, and forever good. And the steadfast love, the Hasid. of the Lord endures forever his heart toward his people to do us good. In other words, he is good and he does good for his people that we don't deserve. This is something we need to be reminded of when we find ourselves in a Job-like condition, or when we're going through Job and we're empathizing with those who suffer like Job, the righteous who suffer unjustly. God is still good, unchangeably so, eternally so. His steadfast love, his heart of goodness toward us endures forever, no matter what we see going on in our external circumstances. How is that possible? Well, The psalmist here is in distress. Verse 5, he says, Out of my distress I called on the Lord. The Lord answered me and set me free. So we need to ask this question. How ultimately is it that the Lord has answered us and set us free in our distress, in our suffering? Justified or unjustified, how is it that the Lord has seen us, has answered us, and has set us free? Well, Psalm 118 is actually a messianic psalm that is richly and abundantly Christ-centered God has answered us in Christ. God has set us free in Christ. In Christ The Lord is on our side. As Romans 8 said, if God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but freely gave him up for us all, how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all? The Lord's on our side is our helper because Emmanuel is God with us. He's our refuge. He's the one we can hide ourselves in in the midst of distress. We can cling to Christ. to his death and resurrection, to his righteousness and peace, to his sovereignty and his presence. We can trust in Christ. And therefore we can be surrounded by a world that hates God, nations that hate God, a culture that hates God, Politics that exclude God, all of that. We can be surrounded by all of this, and we can say, The Lord helps me, and I cut them off because they can't touch me, because I'm in Christ. I'm in Christ. How do I know that? Because this Stanza right here, verses 14 to 16. This is the Christ-centered. It begins really the explicitly Christ-centered answer here. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my Yeshua, my salvation. Remember, salvation is the same Hebrew word as the name of Jesus, Yeshua. Glad songs of salvation, glad songs of Jesus, our Savior, are in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord Who sits at God's right hand? Jesus the Messiah, risen and exalted, seated at the right hand of God. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly and exalts. He saves. He is mighty to save. We have a Savior. who does valiantly. We have a savior who exalts. We have a savior who has become our salvation, and who has given us glad songs of salvation Because of him we shall not die, but we shall live. When this life is over and we enter death, we pass right through death into eternal life because of what God has done for us. Open to me the gates of righteousness that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous enter through it. Who is the gate of the Lord but Jesus? Who is the gates of righteousness but Jesus, our righteousness? And again, to get this clear, verses 21. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. How? When? Well, it's when the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. Psalm 118, verse 22, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. is one of the most quoted of Old Testament verses in the New Testament. It tells us of what Christ has done for us. He was rejected by the chief priests and the rulers. He was crucified, despised by men, but he's become the cornerstone. He's the cornerstone of a new and living temple. He's the firstborn from the dead, the first fruits of the resurrection. He is the resurrection and the life. This is the day that the Lord has made, the day of Christ's triumph, the day of Christ's resurrection, the Lord's day. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. It's because of what Christ has done by being rejected and then being made the cornerstone. Because of what Christ has done, we can say to God, save us and give us success, and we can know that in Christ, nothing in this world can separate us from his love. And nothing in this life can ultimately defeat us. Again, more explicit Christ-centeredness here. Verse 26 is what they said when Jesus rode into Jerusalem on that first Palm Sunday. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. Jesus was bound to the altar of the cross for us and for our salvation. Verse 27. And so, because he's our salvation, we give thanks to God forever. When we suffer, we have a better answer than what Job had available to him. Because we know the one who has entered into our suffering and who has overcome sin and death and hell forever for us. That gives us cause to rejoice greatly and eternally. Let's pray. Lord God, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you that He has conquered death and hell for us. Thank you that we are yours, and our salvation is secure in heaven, our righteousness is perfect in heaven. We will triumph. We are more than conquerors through him who loved us We rejoice in that. And we thank you for it. And we praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Job 15 and Psalm 118. Tomorrow we're going to continue in Job and go on to Job 16, and we'll hear Job's answer. Have a blessed day in the Lord.