Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Pan Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Good to be with you for our 1035th day together in God's Word. We come to the prophet Joel. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the book of Joel. Thank you for the truth it contains. Thank you for the challenge it gives us. For our lives, we pray that we would hear and heed and follow your word to us through the prophet Joel, even as you gave it. So many hundreds of years ago, may it be freshly given to us today by your Spirit, writing it on our hearts and shaping our lives by your word in Jesus' name. Amen. The word of the Lord that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel, Hear this, you elders, give ear all inhabitants of the land. Has such a thing happened in your days, or in the days of your fathers? Tell your children of it, and let your children tell their children and their children to another generation. What the cutting locust left, the swarming locust has eaten. What the swarming locust left, the hopping locust has eaten. And what the hopping locust left, the destroying locust Has eaten Awake, you drunkards, and weep and wail, all you drinkers of wine, because of the sweet wine For it is cut off from your mouth, for a nation has come up against my land, powerful and beyond number. Its teeth are lion's teeth, and it has the fangs of a lioness It has laid waste my vine and splintered my fig tree. It has stripped off their back and thrown it down. Their branches are made white. Lament Like a virgin wearing sackcloth for the bridegroom of her youth, the grain offering and the drink offering are cut off from the house of the Lord. The priests mourn, the ministers of the Lord, the fields are destroyed, the ground mourns, because the grain is destroyed. The wine dries up, the oil languishes. Be ashamed, O tillers of the soil. Wail, O vine-dressers. For the wheat and the barley, because the harvest of the field has perished, the vine dries up, the fig languishes, pomegranate, palm, and apple, all the trees of the field are dried up. And gladness dries up from the children of man. Put on sackcloth and lament, O priests. Wail, O ministers of the altar. Go in. Pass the night in sackcloth, O ministers of my God, because grain offering and drink offering are withheld. from the house of your God. Consecrate a fast. Call a solemn assembly. Gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land to the house of the Lord your God and cry out to the Lord, Alas for the day For the day of the Lord is near, and as destruction from the Almighty it comes. Is not the food cut off before our eyes joy and gladness from the house of our God? The seed shrivels under the clods, the storehouses are desolate, the granaries are torn down because the grain has dried up, how the beasts groan. The herds of cattle are perplexed because there is no pasture for them. Even the flocks of sheep suffer. To you, O Lord, I call For fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and flame has burned up all the trees of the field, even the beasts of the field pant for you, because the water brooks Are dried up, and fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness. Well, we begin today with the prophet Joel. We don't know that much about the prophet Joel from the text here. Because we don't have exactly a time reference. We don't know exactly when this locust invasion happened. We know that Joel was the son of Pethuel and that he was a prophet. And that's Really about all we know, the range of dates have been from the ninth century or the eight hundreds BC, which would have made him sort of earlier even than Isaiah, to the fourth century BC. We really just don't know. No. But what we have here is clearly an unprecedented locust invasion. Such a thing has never happened in their days or the days of their fathers, and then apparently followed by a devastating fire. Perhaps because everything was so stripped bare and everything was so dry after that that fire broke out. It's devastating. And the reason for it is judgment from God. So the theme we get to study in Joel is the devastating consequences of judgment from God. And a call to repentance. And we get the theme of the day of the Lord. And so this is an important opportunity for us to talk about this concept of the day of the Lord. What is the day of the Lord? Well, the day of the Lord is the day of judgment. of winnowing, of separation. Jesus in his parables talked about how the day is coming when the wheat's going to be separated from the chaff. And the wheat will be brought into the storehouse and the chaff burned up with fire. When the net full of fish will be sorted, the good fish and the bad fish, and the good fish will be brought in. uh and the bad fish will be thrown away and destroyed. And so that is the great day of the Lord. So there is a great day of the Lord coming in the future, and that is judgment day. The second coming of Jesus Christ to this world in power and glory with the holy angels and all of his saints will be the great day of the Lord, the day of judgment upon the whole world. Everyone who is alive at that time, everyone who has ever lived, will be resurrected, glorified brought before God, brought before the throne, and judged. Either their name will be in the Lamb's book of life, and they'll be brought into eternal life, or they will not be in the Lamb's book of life, in which case they'll be judged for their deeds. And they'll be cast out into outer darkness forever where there is weeping and gnashing of teeth, thrown into the lake of fire with the beast and the false prophet and Satan and his unholy host. That's the great day of the Lord. But the day of the Lord is also used in scripture of days of judgment that happen in the midst of history. So the invasion from Assyria is a day of the Lord. The invasion from Babylon is a day of the Lord. Because God is bringing judgment and he's sorting by those who trusted in him and are persevering in their faith, and those who are idolatrous and unfaithful. Here we have a locust invasion followed by a wildfire, and this is a picture, a foretaste of the day of the Lord. Notice that God's judgment is brought because God's people are not worshiping rightly. That language is here. The grain offering of the house of the Lord cut off, fields destroyed. Um there's no there's no right worship because there's a call for there to be a fast and a solemn assembly and to gather the elders and the inhabitants of the land to the house of the Lord your God to cry out to the Lord. The priests and the ministers at the altar are particularly called upon to repent and to bring the right offering that have been withheld from the house of God. So if God has blessed his people, And his people have not used those blessings in the way they should for the worship of God, for the glory of his name, for the good of his people, for the for the advancing of his kingdom. For the shining of his light. If if we've taken the blessings of God and been self-indulgent with them, God takes them away. God uses them. He he sends this locust horde. He sends this fire to burn them up because there's been a neglect. of the things of God. And so there's a call for repentance. And in verse 15 it says, Alas for the day, for the day of the Lord is near, and as destruction from the Almighty it comes. This is not necessarily referring to the locust plague. It could be saying that there is another day of judgment coming, maybe in the form of an invading horde of Babylonians. that will be coming, uh I believe in future chapters of armies invading. But right now for us, right now for us, how can we take this and apply it to our lives? Well, what are we doing with the blessings that God gives us? Are we simply being self-indulgent, wasting them on trivial nonsense That makes us fat, dumb, and happy? Or are we worshiping God, giving to his kingdom glorifying him as faithful stewards. Not just our material blessings, but also our freedoms, our opportunities, our education. What are we doing with the good things that God has given us? If we withhold them from the house of our God, if we withhold them from being used for the service of the kingdom, God will send judgment. God will remove those things. And there can be judgment that comes win in time. So for example, America Wealthy, prosperous, free country, but self-indulgent, hedonistic, self-serving Increasingly ungodly, unbelieving, and the church in America, I mean. The professing Christian church in America, materially blessed, Blessed with resources like no other church in history, opportunities to serve, and yet we you we spend it on ourselves, on our self-indulgent pleasures and luxuries And so the Lord is going to take away. The Lord is taking away. He's right now in the process of taking these things away. And we need to repent. We need to say, Lord, these things belong to you. It should be our joy and our delight to serve God with the things He's given us, not serve ourselves, not to be self-indulgent. But to be kingdom-minded, mission-minded, worship-oriented, God glorifying with the things He's given us. That's the call from Joel very clearly. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this book. We pray that you would write this truth in our hearts deeply, that we might see everything we have as a gift from you and a trust. to be used for your glory. Make us faithful, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. That's Joel 1. We're going to have uh three days in a row here of Joel. One, two, and three. And so I hope you can stick with us as we go through this short profit and have a blessed day in the Lord.