Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is our 1037th day together in the Word of God, and we are here in Joel chapter 3, finishing up this short little book, the book of the prophet Joel. A very important book quoted in the New Testament as we saw yesterday in Joel chapter 2, the pouring out of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost. The universal call of salvation, the second coming, these are passages, especially at the end of Joel 2, they're quoted in several places in the New Testament. pointing us to the the gospel and coming of Christ. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we turn to Joel 3 today. Father in heaven, there is no one like you. You are awesome in power and holiness. Teach us today from Joel 3. Help us to see your glory and to love you and to draw close to you by faith. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Joel 3. For behold, in those days and at that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem, I will gather all the nations. and bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat, and I will enter into judgment with them there on behalf of my people and my heritage Israel, because they have scattered them among the nations, and have divided up my land. And have cast loss for my people, and have traded a boy for a prostitute, and have sold a girl for wine and have drunk it. What are you to me? O Tyre and Sidon and all the regions of Philistia, are you paying me back for something? If you are paying me back, I will return your payment on your own head swiftly and speedily, for you have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried my rich treasures into your temples. You have sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks, in order to remove them far from their own border. Behold, I will stir them up from the place to which you have sold them. And I will return your payment on your own head. I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the people of Judah. And they will sell them to the Sabaeans, to a nation far away, for the Lord has spoken. Proclaim this among the nations, consecrate for war, stir up the mighty men, let all the men of war draw near, let them come up Beat your plowshares into swords and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weak say, I am a warrior. Hasten and come All you surrounding nations, and gather yourselves there. Bring down your warriors, O Lord. Let the nations stir themselves up and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat, for there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations. Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Go in, tread, for the wine press is full, the vats overflow, for their evil is great. Multitudes. Multitudes in the Valley of Decision. For the day of the Lord is near in the Valley of Decision. the sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining. The Lord roars from Zion, He utters his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth quake. But the Lord is a refuge to his people. a stronghold to the people of Israel. So you shall know that I am the Lord your God who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain. And Jerusalem shall be holy, and strangers shall never again pass through it. And in that day the mountains shall drip sweet wine And the hills shall flow with milk, and all the stream beds of Judah shall flow with water, and a fountain shall come forth from the house of the Lord. and water the valley of Shetim. Egypt shall become a desolation, and Edom a desolate wilderness. for the violence done to the people of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land. But Judah shall be inhabited forever And Jerusalem to all generations, I will avenge their blood. Blood I have not avenged, for the Lord dwells in Zion. So Joel 3 takes us in a in a different direction from where we've been in the Prophet Joel so far, and that is the focus turns to the nations, to the surrounding nations. One of the things that Christians get wrong a lot when they're reading the Old Testament prophets is they read about Israel. and Jerusalem and they think America. And then they read about the nations and they think about, you know, the other nations. Or Still wrong. They read about Israel and they think about the modern geopolitical nation-state of Israel. Israel in the Bible means the people of God. God, the people who have faith in the Lord, who are in covenant with the Lord, who are adopted as the children of God. So that is the people of Israel and the church. One people of God, Old and New Testament, we are grafted in, Romans 11 tells us, we are grafted into the olive tree that has its root in the promises given to Abraham. that through your offspring all the nations of the earth will be blessed. So the dividing line is not between America and the rest of the nations, or between the geopolitical state of Israel and the rest of the nations. The dividing line is between the church as the true Jerusalem, the people of God, and the nations. This is spelled out, I think, pretty clearly in the book of Galatians, as well as in 1 Peter 2. So, we've talked about this in other passages. You can go look up some of those other passages if you would like. But what we need to see here is what God is saying is that on the day of the Lord, when he comes, Because that's what with what's in view. What's in view is the great and terrifying, the great and awesome, terrifying day of the Lord comes. That at that time God is building up his church, he's building up his people, and he's going to gather all the people of the world who persecute the people of God, and he's going to judge them. In Revelation, when we were in Revelation, we saw that there's reference in 19 and 20 to this great battle. Some call it Armageddon, but this great battle that is the gathering of the nations, Gog and Magog, the nations, the hostile nations of the world against the Lord's people. We saw it in Ezekiel as well. That basically it's going to be a global worldwide persecution of the church from all the nations and that God, Jesus will come to rescue his people and to judge the nations. But it's not just those nations at that time, in the very end of days, who are judging or who are persecuting the people of God who are going to be judged by Jesus. Everyone's going to be resurrected. And everyone's going to appeal appear before the judgment seat of Christ And those who have persecuted God's people, they will have blood on their hands as they stand before the Savior and Judge and King of Kings and Lord of Lords. This is going to happen. So there are consequences for those people who persecute God's people. So ultimately We don't need to be afraid of being persecuted, of being discriminated against, of being picked on, of being ostracized, of being marginalized. That's a temporary condition When the Lord comes, he's going to have a final battle in which the nations of the world are wiped out and judged. Now, some of the specific sins that are noted here is that these people from Tyre and Sidon and Philistia, the sea coast traders who were on the Mediterranean coast. They were wealthy and they would kidnap or or purchase children from Israel and they would sell them into slavery. But it's really emblematic of all kinds of persecution. So even right now today in the world, there's persecution in terms of churches being shut down, burned down, pastors being beaten and imprisoned. leaders of churches being executed, churches having their property confiscated and sold out from under them. And all of these things, God looks at them and he says, the time of harvest is coming. Verse 13 is language that Jesus picked up on when he talked about the end of the age. He said the harvest is the end of the age when he talked about the parable of the wheat and the tares. Put in the sickle for the harvest is ripe. Go in, tread, for the vine press. The wine press is full, the vats overflow, for their evils is great, multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision, for the Lord is near in the valley of decision. This is what the Valley of Jehoshaphat is here. I think it's symbolic, it's representative of the fact that when Jesus comes again, the harvest is the end of the age, the angels will put the sickle in. Will bring in the full multitude. In other words, every single person is going to stand before God and going to be judged. But the Lord's going to be a refuge to his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel. And in that day We're going to enjoy the new heavens and the new earth. A world so abundant in in goodness and in the wonderful provision of God without any sin. forever and ever, while the nations who persecuted God's people are going to suffer forever and ever. That day is coming. We need to live every day in this life in the light of that day that is coming. Because it matters. It makes all the difference. It is coming. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you for the coming great day of the Lord. Thank you that Jesus will right all wrongs and will free your people and will bring us into a great and abundant place, the new heavens and the new earth. And we will be at peace forever. Help us to trust in you, to honor you, to follow you, to praise you, to faithfully represent you until we are face to face with you on that We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. And that brings an end to the prophet Joel. So we are going to go back to 2 Corinthians tomorrow and then come back and begin the prophet Amos, who will be next on our list. as we come down the home stretch of our three years together in the Word of God. Have a blessed day in the Lord.