Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On our 1036th day together in God's Word, we are in Joel chapter 2. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this little book of Joel and for what it shows us of your power and greatness and what it calls us to in repentance and faith. Speak to us today through Joel 2. Write these words on our hearts that we might respond to you in faith, that we might love Jesus our King more for the time we spend in your word. We pray this in his name. Amen. Joel two Blow a trumpet in Zion, sound an alarm on the holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble for the day of the Lord is coming. It is near. A day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness. Like blackness there is spread upon the mountains a great and powerful people. Their like has never been before, nor will be again after them, through the years of all generations. Fire devours before them, and behind them a flame burns. The land is like the Garden of Eden before them, but behind them a desolate wilderness, and nothing escapes them Their appearance is like the appearance of horses, and like war horses they run, as with the rumbling of chariots they leap on the tops of the mountains. like the crackling of a flame of fire devouring the stubble, like a powerful army drawn up for battle before them. Peoples are in anguish, all faces grow pale, like warriors they charge, like soldiers, they scale the wall, they march, each on his way, they do not swerve from their paths, they do not jostle one another. Each marches in his path, they burst through the weapons, and are not halted. They leap upon the city, they run upon the walls, they climb up into the houses, they enter through the windows like a thief The earth quakes before them, the heavens tremble, the sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining. The Lord utters his voice before his army. For his camp is exceedingly great. He who executes his word is powerful. For the day of the Lord is great and very awesome. Who can endure it? Yet even now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart, with fasting and weeping and with mourning And rend your hearts, and not your garments. Return to the Lord your God For he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. And he relents Over disaster. Who knows whether he will not turn and relent and leave a blessing behind him, a grain offering and a drink offering for the Lord your God? Blow the trumpet in Zion, consecrate a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the people, consecrate the congregation, assemble the elders, gather the children, even nursing infants. Let the bridegroom leave his room and the bride her chamber between the vestibule and the altar, let the priests, the ministers of the Lord, weep, and say, Spare your people, O Lord And make not your heritage a reproach, a byword among the nations. Why should they say, Among the peoples, where is their God? Then the Lord became jealous for his land, and had pity on his people. The Lord answered and said to his people, Behold, I am sending to you grain, wine, and oil, and you will be satisfied. and I will no more make you a reproach among the nations. I will remove the northerner far from you, and drive him into a parched and desolate land. his vanguard into the Eastern Sea, and his rear guard into the Western Sea. The stench and foul smell of him will rise, for he has done great things. Fear not, O land Be glad and rejoice, for the Lord has done great things. Fear not, you beasts of the field, for the pastures of the wilderness are green The tree bears its fruit. The fig tree and the vine give their full yield. Be glad, O children of Zion. And rejoice in the Lord your God, for he has given the early rain for your vindication. He has poured down for you abundant rain, the early And the latter rain, as before, the threshing floors shall be full of grain, the vats shall overflow with wine and oil I will restore to you the years that the swarming locust has eaten, the hopper, the destroyer, and the cutter, my great army which I sent among you. You shall eat in plenty and be satisfied and praise the name of the Lord your God who has dealt wondrously with you, and my people shall never again be put to shame. You shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the Lord your God, and there is none else. And my people shall never again be put to shame. And it shall come to pass afterward that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. Even on the male, and female servants, in those days I will pour out my spirit, and I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth blood and fire and columns of smoke, the sun turned to darkness and the moon to blood, before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved, for in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as the Lord has said. and among the survivors shall be those whom the Lord calls. That's Joel chapter two. Boy, it's a a sweeping overview of these themes of judgment and mercy and restoration, and then the outpouring of the Spirit, and then final judgment. The Lord is holy and sovereign, and he is sending all of these things upon his people for his glory and for our true and eternal good. On one level, we just need to step back and say, no matter what comes into our lives, no matter what comes into our lives, uncertainty. Threat, danger, famine, economic disaster, war, persecution, blessing, abundance, security, prosperity, wealth Whatever comes into our lives, it comes from or through the hand of God. It is measured out. It is purposeful. And we are to respond in a Godward direction. So often we get angry at on the horizontal level or we get greedy or expectant or entitled or boastful or proud or whatever, but we don't look up and we don't say this is coming from the hand of the Lord and is a call either to repent or to give thanks. or to worship, or to put on sackcloth and ash in a metaphorical sense and really re you know, tear our hearts and not our garments, as God says. Like we don't respond Godward to the circumstance We look at them as just the circumstances of life. And we get angry about them, or we get bitter about them, or we blame other people, or we feel entitled, and we feel jilted, or We just feel proud of ourselves that we did a great job and and hooray for us and we take a vacation and none of it ever or rarely is in a Godward orientation. And on one level, just simply to step back and say Joel is painting this sweeping broad brush of uh future events, and they're all coming from God, and there's a response that's called for for each of them. We need to look at our lives this way. But these are these are things that have happened and are happening and will happen in the lives of God's people. This is some things that happened in the near future, after Joel's day, things that happened later, things that happened yet future, and then things that are still yet future for from when our perspective is. So the first thing that happens is a great army. A great army invades. It's like that locust plague. that Israel was dealing with in chapter one. Except this is a conquering army. It comes out of the north. It's the day of the Lord, in that it is a day of judgment. Now there is a great and awesome day of the Lord, yet still coming. But this is the day of the Lord as a day of judgment, a day of darkness and gloom, clouds and thick darkness. We can think of when the Assyrians came through Israel and Judah. We can think of when the Babylonians came through Judah and destroyed Jerusalem. It is a time when a very large overwhelming, unstoppable, devastating army comes through. And this is a pretty graphic description of what these kinds of conquering armies were like. They just destroyed everything 'cause The army has to eat and the way that you pay for these massive expeditions if you're the Assyrian Empire, Babylonian Empire, Persian Empire, whatever You've got to send out an army of hundreds of thousands of people to go and invade. How are you going to feed all those people? Well, you tell them, whatever you find, you can take and eat. And that army becomes like a massive sea of locusts. So there was a real locust plague that had happened, and God's saying that what's coming with these soldiers from the north Before them, it's like the Garden of Eden. After them, it's like a desolate wilderness. It's just like those locusts who come through and take out everything that's coming. That's coming. And so the day of the Lord is great and awesome. Who can endure it? The Lord is sending this judgment, and one day the Lord will send an even more total, an even more complete judgment, because there will be no human being who has ever lived Or is living at that time who will escape from the great and very awesome, terrible coming day of the Lord of Judgment? It's going to be absolute and complete. This is a foretaste of that. It's an anticipation of that. What should be the response? Repentance. Verse 12. Repentance. That's a returning to the Lord. It's a fasting, weeping, mourning, rending your hearts. Why? If God is sending this judgment, why would we turn to him? Because As Lamentations 3 says, he does not afflict from the heart. The heart of God is not to judge his people. The heart of God is in his self-disclosed character that we see in verse 13. Return to the Lord, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love That's how God revealed himself in Exodus 34 to Moses, Exodus 34, verses 6 and 7, in the Psalms, Psalm 103, and other places. This is how God has revealed Himself. This is the essence of the character of God. He is Yahweh our God, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. And even though he is the one sending the disaster, he's sending it upon us because we have sinned against him. We have rebelled against him, and who knows Whether he will not turn and relent and leave a blessing. So, consecrate a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the people. Consecrate the congregation, assemble the elders. In other words, get everybody together to seek the Lord. We must pray. We must seek the Lord. What do we pray? We pray, spare your people, O Lord. Make not your heritage a reproach. And the Lord hears. And the Lord relents. This is what happens in history. God's people got sent out into the Babylonian captivity, but then they were returned from the Babylonian captivity, and God blessed them. God brings judgment, God brings blessing. When there's sin, God disciplines. When there's repentance, God relents and brings blessing. He sends us grain, wine, oil. He sends us good things. The good things that we get are not things that we have gotten for ourselves. The good things that we enjoy are not things that, look what I have done by the work of my own hands. No, they're given by God out of his grace, and we should we should be glad and rejoice. Be glad and rejoice, verse 23. Be glad and rejoice before the Lord. Don't boast. Be glad and rejoice. I will restore to you the years that the swarming locust has eaten. You shall eat in plenty and be satisfied and praise the name of the Lord your God. So destruction calls for repentance. Abundant blessing calls for praise. Be glad. Rejoice. Praise the Lord. And then we get into after the restoration to the land. See, Babylonian exile, restoration from the land, after the restoration from the land, later God says, I'm going to pour out my spirit on all flesh. Now we know that this was fulfilled on the day of Pentecost in Acts chapter 2. Peter says this is what is happening. It's the breaking in of the end times, of the last days. Because it's What we read here is in those days, verse 29, in those days, which days? The last days. Pentecost marks the beginning. Really the resurrection of Jesus from the dead because he inaugurates the new creation in his own resurrection. He's the firstborn from the dead, the first fruits of the resurrection. He is the inauguration of the new creation. It's the breaking into the last days, but the last days blessing of the Holy Spirit belonging to all believers. Every single believer, young, old, male, female, wealthy, poor, has the same Holy Spirit living within us. The fulfillment. And all that awaits now in the future is that Jesus will come again. And on that The Great and Awesome Day of the Lord, verse 31, before that, the great and awesome day of the Lord, the sun turns to darkness, the moon turns to blood, everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. So we live in the time of the Spirit and the day of salvation. The Holy Spirit's been poured out. Anyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's quoted by uh Paul in Romans 10. Everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And God will be gracious. God will restore for his own glory and for our good. So what are we supposed to be doing? Because what I think we're supposed to be doing. In times of crisis and uncertainty, seek the Lord. When we're convicted of our idolatry and unfaithfulness, repent before the Lord. When we're blessed, rejoice, give thanks, and praise the Lord. Preach the gospel in the power of the Holy Spirit So that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, and wait with longing and expectation for the great and awesome David. Let's pray. Father, thank you. Thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you for the salvation that we have in Him. Thank you for your Holy Spirit who lives within us. Father, bless your church with repentance, with faith, with thanksgiving, and with bold, spirit-empowered gospel proclamation To the glory of your name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I'm going to go get this frog out of my throat. Thank you for joining me. Have a blessed day in the Lord.