Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Venel from Forest Hill Resident It's our 853rd day together in the Word of God, and we are here in John chapter 9, where Jesus heals a man who was born blind. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for Jesus, our Savior, our Redeemer, our Healer, the one who gives us sight when we are spiritually blind, the one who heals us and forgives us and makes us Makes us right. Help us to see Jesus very clearly in this chapter and understand how we can walk by faith with him today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. All right. John chapter 9. As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is gay. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Having said these things he spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva, then he anointed the poor man's the man's eyes with the mud and said to him Go wash in the pool of Siloam, which means scent. So he went and washed, and came back seeing The neighbors, and those who had seen him before as a beggar, were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg Some said, It is he. Others said, No, but he is like him. But he kept saying, I am the man. He answered, This man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know. They brought the Pharisees to the man who had formerly been blind. Now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I wash, and I see. Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs and there was division among them. So they said again to the blind man, What do you say about him, since he has opened your eyes? he said. He is a prophet. The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received sight to sight and asked them, is this your son who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind, but how he now sees, we do not know. Nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him. He is of age. He will speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. Therefore his parents said, He is of age, ask him. So for the second time they called the man who had been born blind and said to him, Give glory to God. W uh uh we know that this man is a sinner. He said, Whether he is a sinner I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I have told you already, and you would not listen Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? And they reviled him, saying, You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered, Why, this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if any one is a worshipper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that any one opened the eyes of a man born blind, if this man were not from God. Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him, he said Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see Your guilt remains. That's John chapter 9 in the ESV. It's a great story, one of the great signs of Jesus to heal a man who had been born blind. And there's so much we learn about Jesus, about human nature, about the Jewish religious leaders, about this man. So much in this wonderful chapter. So, first of all, Jesus sees this man blind from birth. And seeing a man blind from birth, his disciples want to start a theological discussion Something wrong even with that picture, right? They don't see a man born blind and think immediately, Jesus, there's a man who's born blind. Do you think you could give him sight? No, they don't. They don't think that, they don't ask that They just want to start a theological discussion. Was it this man who sinned? In the womb, perhaps Or did his parents sin and he had their sin visited upon him so that he was born blind? These are these thorny theological questions that sometimes people get into. Why? The why questions? Jesus doesn't answer directly. He says, sorry, Jesus does answer directly. I'm sorry. I'm tired. Jesus says, it was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. In other words, Jesus is shifting this a little bit. Sometimes we ask the why questions that are usually not given to us. Or we make assumptions like we saw when we were in Job. You can make assumptions about something because of the external that you see. Jesus isn't instead of really focusing on the why question, he's focusing on that God is going to work here. So you need to be watching and expecting what God is going to do. God's going to work. And then he says, We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. So this application for us as believers is very uh clear, I think, and that is if we see someone in suffering, in pain, in Distress, in poverty or whatever it is. Rather than saying, why is this happening? We need to say, how is God at work And what is he calling me to do to be a part of how he is at work? Does that mean I should feed this person who's hungry? Does that mean I should be part of housing this person who's homeless? Does that mean I should be part of clothing this person who needs clothes? Does that mean I should be part of uh helping to educate this person who needs an education? Should I be part of comforting and counseling this person who's who's living a life of fear and oppression, whatever it is, instead of instead of getting bogged down on the why questions and getting distracted from what's happening And that is, how is it God at work? How is God at work? And how is God calling me to join him in this work? The disciples should have seen the man born blind and said, Jesus, here's a man born blind. Do you think you could give him sight? In other words, they should have seen, how can God impact this situation? They missed it though, because they were asking these questions. But Jesus goes goes ahead and does what they didn't even expect him to do. They didn't even ask him to do it. We have no record here. Again, I love this about John's gospel, some of the miracles he recorded. We have no record here that this man asked Jesus to heal him or that the disciples asked Jesus to heal him. Jesus just sovereignly decides that that's what he's going to do. So after saying, he says, As long as I'm in the world, I am the light of the world and having said these things he spit on the ground, made mud with the saliva, then he anointed the man's eyes with the early. And said to him, go wash in the pool of Siloam, which means sent. Apostle means sent one. The apostles are the sent ones. They are going to be sent into the world to preach the gospel and to serve others in the name of God. of Jesus. And so this man, born blind, was sent to this pool of Siloam, which means itself sent. He's going to go out into the world. He's going to bear testimony to his synagogue and to others about what Jesus has done for him. The apostles and you and me. Jesus has touched our hearts and lives. We are sent out into the world. to tell others about him and to be engaged in the work that he is doing. So he went and watched and he came back seeing. Now there were neighbors, there were others who had seen him before, who were just passers by and said, wait a minute, I think that's the guy. You remember that guy? I think that's the guy. Is that the guy? I don't know. It looks like him. It couldn't be the guy. Same guy? Do you think? That's the conversation bustling about. You can imagine. If you had known a man who was blind. Especially if you're a neighbor and you've known him his whole life and he's blind, or you are pretty sure you saw a guy begging blind and now he's seeing, you would talk. Now what's funny is he's saying in the middle of it, I am the man, but they're talking about like, is he, isn't he, isn't he, isn't he? But he kept saying it over and over again, I am the man. So finally They believe him and they want to know how. And he talks about Jesus. I love the fact that he doesn't say, well, you know, somebody came by and uh he talks directly about Jesus clearly. This man called Jesus, made mud, anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to go to Siloam and wash. Now this man doesn't even fully understand who Jesus is. Later he's going to tell the Pharisees that he thinks he's a prophet because he was able to do this miracle of healing. And Jesus certainly was a prophet, but he was also much more than a prophet. So the man doesn't ask for the healing. He doesn't fully understand who Jesus is, and yet Jesus is pleased to heal him and to save Because Jesus goes back, he gives him physical healing the first time, and then goes back to give him spiritual healing, which he needs even more. Then there comes this discussion about the Sabbath day. And why was he doing this on a Sabbath day, right? He's making mud. That's wrong. He's a sinner. He doesn't keep the Sabbath To keep the Sabbath is to give rest. Man, isn't there so much more rest for a man to be able to see? And now he's freed from bondage. He's freed from having to sit and beg. He's freed from the uncertainty. What would happen when his parents died? And there was no one to take care of him, right? All that he's set free and he's put at rest. That's the fulfillment of the Sabbath, is to be a blessing to others. And so they asked this man, what do you say about him? And he says he's a prophet. That really angers the Jewish leaders. So they call in his parents to try to confirm this crazy story that this man was really born blind. Now the parents They're the ones who don't want to really get involved. We all know people who are like, I don't want to get involved. I'll tell you what you're asking me. Even though I know more, I'm not going to say more. I'll just say ask him. He's of age, because I don't really want to get involved. There's a non-committal sideline standards. Watchers and observers who don't want to get involved, don't want to stick their neck out, don't want to risk it for this who? Jesus? They don't know who he is. They do know that his son their son was born blind. They do know that he now sees. Don't you think? Don't you think? But if you were a parent whose son had been born blind and who was now an adult, and his whole life he'd been totally blind, and now he can see, don't you think he would be so thankful For the man who gave him sight, that you wouldn't care if they kicked you out of the synagogue over him. Don't you think? Well, before you jump too quickly to say, yeah, those people, what about us? Jesus has set us free from sin and death. He's given us spiritual sight. He's shown us the truth. He's taken away our sins. And yet sometimes we shrink back when people talk about Jesus we're like, oh well, you know, yeah, I go to church and you know, but I don't really want to impose my religious views on anybody else, whatever excuse we make about it, we don't c speak clearly and directly about Jesus and who he is and what he's done for us. So we need to not be like the parents who are just sort of passing the buck and like not looking to get involved. The second time the Jewish leaders call the man in, and I think it's so Ironic what they say to him. They say to him, give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. These contradicted themselves, didn't they? Because Jesus is the full revelation of the glory of God sent into the world. If they really wanted to give glory to God, they would believe in His Son, whom He has sent into the world to save. Not by denying Jesus, not by accusing Jesus falsely. We know this man is a sinner. No, you don't. You don't know any such thing. What, because he made s mud on the Sabbath? Where is that written in the scriptures that you're not supposed to do that Again, they're just being hyper-legalistic, narrow-minded, judgmental, self-righteous, arrogant, like a lot of religious people. And so they act in that way. They say to this man, What did you what did you do to you? How did you open your eyes? And he says, I've already told you. Why do you want to tell you again? Do you want to become his disciples? They're so offended by this that they revile him. You're his disciples. We're disciples of Moses. No, they're not. They're not disciples of Moses. Jesus had told them in John chapter 5 that if they had listened to Moses, they would have believed in him. They weren't. And so he just tells them, this is amazing. You don't even know who this guy is or where he comes from. You're convinced he's a sinner. But God doesn't listen to sinners. We know that. That's what we know. God doesn't listen to sinners like this. This guy has to be a a a a god fearing, God worshiping prophet because never since the world began has been heard that anyone open the eyes of a man born blind. If it wasn't from God, he couldn't do anything. So he's got much more sound theological reasoning. This man with no education, no training, blind his whole life, has a better theology than the religious leaders. He understands that a sinner would not have this authority and that this is something that's never been done before and that if this man weren't sent from God, he wouldn't be able to do anything So they just don't even want to hear this. Even though it is much better wisdom and much better teaching than they have, they don't want to hear it. You were born in utter sin. Would you teach us And so now Jesus comes back. I love this in verse 35. Jesus heard that they cast him out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? That's so important. Jesus knew that this man needed something more than just physical sight. So when we do ministry, When we reach out to others, should we relieve physical suffering? Yes. Should we stop at only relieving physical suffering? No. Right? Here we have the example of Jesus. He relieved the physical suffering, but he didn't stop at only relieving the physical suffering. He also called the man to believe. And look at the response in verse 38. He said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. He worshipped him. And then And Jesus says, this is why I came into the world for judgment, that those who are blind might be able to see, and those who think they see might be The Pharisees are so offended. Are we blind? You think we're blind? And he said, Well, if you were blind, you wouldn't be guilty. But you claim to see. And there certainly is ample evidence, and so your guilt remains. Has Jesus touched has Jesus touched your life in giving you sight to see who he really is? If he has, then that's something more valuable than if you had been born physically blind and received sight. That's something that we should be easy to do. Eager, eager, chomping at the bit to tell the world about. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you for the life we have in him Help us to be motivated, to be eager, to be zealous, to tell others about you, about your Son, our Savior. the one who alone gives true sight to the blind. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for John chapter 9. I believe we're going back to Ecclesiastes tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.