Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 862nd day together in the Word of God, and we come today to John chapter 11. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word All of your word is a rich treasure and a gift and a blessing to us. We thank you for this time that we can spend together today in John 11. This wonderful, powerful chapter. We pray that you would write it on our hearts and that we would understand it, that we would see Jesus more clearly, and that we would trust Him more deeply and walk with Him by faith more faithfully, more consistently. More closely. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. John chapter 11. Now a certain man was ill. Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary, and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill So the sisters sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this, he said to his disciples, Let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi The Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died, and for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him So Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him. Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off. And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him But Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know he will rise in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Sorry, whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Now when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled, and he said, Where have you laid him They said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. So the Jews said, See how he loved him But some of them said, could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. Jesus said, Take away the stone Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said these things he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and seen what he did, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council and said, What are we going to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish He did not say this of his own accord, but being a high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So from that day on they planned, they made plans to put him to death. Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews. but went from there to the region near the wilderness to a town called Ephraim, and there he stayed with the disciples. Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand. And many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves. They were looking for Jesus, and saying to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he should let them know that they might arrest him. And it's John chapter 11 in the ESV. It's a powerful story. It is the final miracle that Jesus performs, the final sign of the seven miraculous signs. in the Gospel of John, and it is the ultimate sign because it is resurrection from the dead. Not just resurrection from the dead, but resurrection from the dead after Lazarus had been dead and buried for four days. And that's really significant. for the timing of it, for understanding this whole narrative. We're told multiple times throughout this chapter that Jesus loved Mary and Martha and Lazarus. These were among his closest supporters and followers. He had been in their house many times. We know the famous story of when he was in their house. And Mary was sitting at his feet learning from him, and Martha was busy in the kitchen, and she told Jesus to tell her sister to come and help her. And Jesus said, Martha, Martha, you're troubled about many things, but only one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the better portion and it will not be taken from her. So this was a uh a very important family. They they would be at the tomb uh to to anoint Jesus' body for burial. And they would be among the first people to see Jesus after he was resurrected. So this is a very important family, and Jesus loves them. He made it evident that he loved them. And yet We have this note in verse 5. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus, so when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. And then later He says, I'm glad that I was not here when Lazarus was sick, because this is how God is going to be glorified, and you are going to be. have your eyes opened and see uh the glory of God. Now, I preach on this passage and I've made a mistake. myself that I've have heard many other pastors, preachers, Bible teachers make, and that is Jesus staying there two days longer. intentionally, so that he would not arrive before Lazarus had died. And while he does intentionally stay there two days longer, We do have to be careful with the text because Jesus stays where he is two days longer, and then he goes, and when he gets there, Lazarus has been dead for four days. So it doesn't seem to be the case that Jesus stayed there just so that Lazarus would be already dead, but rather that he would have been dead for four days and not just two days Now, what is the significance of that? Jesus had actually already raised the dead before. He raised a girl from the dead. He raised the son of the widow of Nain from the dead. But here was a case of a man who was dead and buried for four days. The Jewish belief system In the first century, was that the spirit remained with the body, hovering over the body, sort of with the body, for the first three days after death. And then after that, there was absolutely no possibility of any kind of resurrection because the spirit would have left the body by that time. And so the fourth day is really important. He's been in the tomb for four days, means there is absolutely no more hope. Mary and Martha would have known Of stories of Jesus raising the dead. And so perhaps even when Lazarus died, even when if Jesus had come right away and Lazarus had only been dead for a day or two. They would have had expectation and hope that Jesus could raise him from the dead, but now it seems beyond all hope. Now it seems impossible because it's four days. So Jesus is showing them this ultimate sign, which of course is going to preview for his own death and resurrection Where he is himself dead and buried for three days before he rises again from the dead. So Jesus says That he's going to show them the glory of God. I want to just jump down to where Jesus arrives in Bethany. Doesn't yet go to the go to the village, but he's coming to Bethany and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary. When Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she goes out and meets him. That's Martha. She's a woman of action. She's a woman who takes charge She's a doer, right? So she runs out there and she greets Jesus. Now I find it very, very interesting that both Martha and Mary say exactly the same thing to Jesus. Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. They must have been saying that to each other in the four days since his death. If only Jesus had been here. He would not have died. Yes, I know. If only Jesus had been here, he would not have died. These are the kinds of games that we play sometimes. I say games, but we mull things over in our heads. If only, then maybe, right? If only this hadn't happened, then maybe this would have happened. If only God had done this, then maybe this could have happened. If only I hadn't done this, then maybe that would have happened. We play these if-only games, rehashing things in our minds, it's one of the ways that we increase our own misery. Sometimes we drive ourselves into a deeper despair, rehashing the details of our lives and asking if only. The truth is. that everything that happens in our lives happens according to God's plan and on God's schedule. All the if-only games are pointless God has appointed what God has appointed. And so instead of asking ourselves if only, we need to ask ourselves, what is God doing? And what is God calling me to do with what I have in my life? Because this is what He's given me. What I have, the circumstance I'm in, whatever's happened or hasn't happened, has been given to me by God So what is God doing in my life? And what is God calling me to do? And in this case, Jesus is calling Martha and Mary to trust him Even though Lazarus has been in the tomb for four days, and so often that's what God's calling us to do. We play the if-only games. Well, if only this had happened, then that wouldn't have happened. Wait a minute. But it did happen. And it didn't happen by accident, it happened by the will of God. Will you trust God with the present reality that He has brought into your life To Martha, Jesus puts it very bluntly, your brother will rise again. And he wants to know if Martha's going to believe that. Martha gives a theologically correct response. I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. And Jesus says to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? See, Martha, faithful believer, had taken God's word and believed based upon what Daniel says and some other places in the Old Testament that there's going to be this resurrection at the end of all things. So she believes that, and that's good for her to believe that. But Jesus wants her to go deeper and to believe that He Himself is the resurrection and the life. Now that's a big thing to believe that this man who has eaten meals in your home, whom you have fed, who has sat, who has laughed with you, who has told stories, who has taught you, that he is the resurrection and the life? That he is the one who's decisive in this matter? And she says, yes, Lord. I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. Yes, Lord, I believe. Four simple words. But they're so powerful. Sweeping away all the if-onies, sweeping away all the theologically correct answers that sometimes keep the reality of the heart issue at a distance, will we say to God Yes, Lord, I believe. She says that. And then Jesus goes to talk to Mary. The teacher is here and is calling for you. So Mary goes out. She rises quickly once she's called. Martha's a woman of action, but Mary is a woman who wants to be with Jesus. And so if Jesus has called her, she goes out to be with him. And what does she say? Same thing exactly. Lord, if you have been here, my brother would not have died. And rather than giving Mary The same sort of call to believe he demonstrates He demonstrates. He demonstrates first his compassionate heart. Where have you laid him? Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. See how he loved him. He demonstrates his love For Mary, for Martha, for Lazarus, and then, as people are saying, could not he who have opened the eyes of the blind man kept this man from dying? Jesus says, take away the stone Martha, Ever the Pragmatist, says, Lord, by this time there'll be an odor. He's been dead four days. It's going to smell bad, Lord. You sure you know what you're doing? She had said, yes, Lord, I believe, but Jesus says, did I not tell you that if you believed? You would see the glory of God. Look at verse 41. So they took away the stone. Faith acts. Faith acts. Doesn't just talk. It acts. That taking away of the stone was an act of faith. And then Jesus offers this prayer for the sake of those who were there, that they may believe that you sent me. And then he cries out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. And Lazarus comes out. He comes out bound, and he needs to be unbound and let go. Jesus has in himself the power of life. Jesus calls us spiritually from death to life, and we come when he calls us. And when he returns, Jesus will call all the dead to life, and all the dead will rise That is the truth of him being the resurrection and life. Do we believe that? It's amazing how some people can see even this great sign, even this great miracle. and still respond with cynicism, skepticism, unbelief. They can still say, we gotta get rid of this guy. Why? Why do they want to get rid of him still? What are we going to do? He performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. These are religious leaders and they don't care if Jesus is indeed the Christ who is to come into the world They don't care if Jesus is indeed the Son of God, the long-awaited promised one. All they care about is whether or not they're going to be able to keep their place and their nation. So many people are kept from following Jesus. So many people are kept from faith in Jesus because they don't want to give up what they have, their security, their comfort, their position. their pleasures, their predictable life. They don't want to give up. And so they lose out. Will we set aside the things that distract us? Will we set aside the things that compete? And when we say, it doesn't matter if I lose, in the end I will gain so much more. Will we follow Jesus? Let's pray. Well Lord God, thank you so much for the gift of your Son, our Savior. Thank you for the life that we have with Him. Please strengthen our faith in Jesus. Please help us to follow after him no matter what it costs. In Jesus' name. Amen Well, thanks for joining me for John chapter 11. I hope that was a blessing to you, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.