Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Work One Chapter per Day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 840th day together in the Word of God, and we come today to John chapter 6, one of my favorite chapters in God's Word. Now I say that about a lot of chapters. But this one is so rich in such great theology of salvation given directly from the Lord. So let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is living and active. Thank you for your word that is full of treasures of life You have given us your word because you love us. You've given us your word that we might know you and glorify you and enjoy you and walk in your ways. So Father, teach us and lead us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, John chapter 6. After this Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias, and a large crowd was following him, because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples. Now, the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand Lifting up his eyes then and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, Two hundred deneri worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to get a little One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are they for so many? Jesus said, Have the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, about five thousand in number. Jesus took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish as much as they wanted, and when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, Gather up the leftover fragments that nothing may be lost. So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who had eaten. When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet who is to come into the world. Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. When evening came, his disciples went down to the sea, got into a boat, and started across the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. The sea became rough because a strong wind was blowing. When they had rowed about three or four miles they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat And they were frightened, but he said to them, It is I, do not be afraid. Then they were glad to take him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going. On the next day the crowd that remained on the other side of the sea saw that there had been only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but that his disciples had gone away alone Other boats from Tiberias came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks. So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats and went to Capernaum, seeking Jesus. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? Jesus answered them Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me, not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal Then they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God that you believe in him whom he has sent. So they said to him, Then what sign do you do, that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat Jesus then said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven, for the bread of God as he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. They said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me, yet do not believe All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of Him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that every one who looks on the Son and believes in Him should have eternal life and I will raise him up on the last day. So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven They said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day It is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who was from God. He has seen the Father. Truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread. That came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever, and the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. The Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him, as the living Father sent me, and I live Because of the Father. So whoever feeds on me, he will live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread that the fathers ate and died Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. When many of his disciples heard this, they said, This is a hard saying Who can listen to it? But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, Do you take offense at this? Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. And he said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. So Jesus said to the twelve, Do you want to go away as well? Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you, the twelve? And yet one of you is a devil. He spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Scariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going to betray him. That's John chapter 6, a long and rich chapter, and we're going to do our best to do justice to the Word of God during our time together here. Jesus feeds the 5,000. That's where this starts. They're on the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is over on the Gentile side or the mixed side. So that's where they are when Jesus does this great miracle. He's on a mountain. There's a great crowd of people who have come out to follow him. There are probably some reasons why this crowd of Jewish people who had come out to follow him and to hear from him. wouldn't even want to buy food on that side of the Sea of Galilee. This is the side of the Sea of Galilee where there was a herd of 2,000 pigs and where there was predominantly a Gentile population. But also these people had been following Jesus and had been listening to him teach, and they were far away from their homes and they were didn't have any food. And so Jesus says to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? Philip is stunned that Jesus is even entertaining such a thought as trying to feed a crowd of thousands of people. And he says 200 deneri worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to get a little. Philip probably says this because 200 deneri is likely the amount of money they have in their money back. And 200 denarii of bread is not an insignificant amount of money, because that's about 200 days' wages for an average laborer. But with a crowd of thousands of people, that's not going to be enough for them to eat. And then Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, comes and says, here's a boy. He's got five barley loaves and two fish. A five and two make seven. So we have seven here. And it's interesting, ancient Christian mosaics of this feeding of the 5,000 of the multiplication, such as on the chapel, that's the traditional site of this feeding. They have a mo a tile mosaic on the floor that goes back centuries, and it shows a basket with four pieces of bread in it and two fish. And you think, well, did they not know how to count when they made the tile mosaic? No. It's because Jesus himself is going to say later, I am the bread of life. So there's four in the basket and two symbolically. In in history, in reality, there were five loaves and two fish. But the mosaic artist is trying to show that the one who completes the number seven, the one who is the bread of life, is is Jesus. And Jesus is teaching them that. This number seven in John is never a coincidence. He loves the number seven. It's a number of divine completion. And so Jesus takes what God provides, what God the Father has provided by his providence through this one little boy's lunch, and he takes it and he feeds the 5,000. And with five loaves for five thousand people, plus women and children, maybe a crowd of ten to twenty thousand people total. They're able to fill twelve baskets of fragments. Now twelve is the divine number for the people of God. There are twelve tribes of Israel, there are twelve apostles of the Lamb. Especially when we get to Revelation later in the year, we'll see that twelve is a very important number, also written by the Apostle John. for the people of God. So the twelve baskets full is to say that Jesus can meet the needs of all of God's people perfectly and abundantly. And the people eat And they say, this is indeed the prophet who has come into the world. Now, very important, verse 15. This is one of several places where Jesus can perceive that the crowd wants him to be an earthly king And he skidaddles. He gets out of there. He is withdrawing to the mountain by himself. They probably didn't even know where he went or how he got through them because he was able to do that. Um, but he doesn't, Jesus doesn't want to be an earthly king. Jesus later in John 18 is going to tell uh Pontius Pilate, My kingdom is not of this world. If it were, my followers would be fighting. But Jesus' followers are not supposed to fight earthly battles. We're supposed to fight spiritual battles because Jesus' kingdom is not of this world And Jesus shows this by refusing to be made into an earthly king. That would be a step down from the throne that he is heading for So then Jesus goes back to the other side. He goes there miraculously because he sets the disciples out ahead of him and then he walks on the water to them in the middle of the night. As soon as he gets in the boat, they're immediately on the other side. The crowd sees it. They see the next day that there was only one boat and that the disciples were in it, but that Jesus hadn't gotten into it, so they're wondering where he is, and they're looking around for him, and then finally they decide to get in the boats and go and find Jesus at Capernaum. So they get there, and they want to know how Jesus got there, or when he got there. They didn't like it that Jesus slipped away from them. Why? Because now he's their bread guy. He's their food guy. And they're trying, in this scene, they're trying to manipulate him into providing endless free food for them. But Jesus wants them to get something better from him, and that is to believe in him for eternal life He says to them, You're seeking me not because you saw signs. You see, if you see a sign, a miracle, it may produce faith. In John's Gospel there's word faith, there's sign faith, but this isn't even the level of sign faith. It is just simply Hungry tummy, man has food, me gets him. Like it's just simple, basic, animalistic uh hunger satisfaction. It is low and base, and Jesus is telling them Don't work so hard for food that perishes, but you need the food that endures to eternal life. That's what the Son of Man can give you. I've got food. In other words, Jesus says, I've got food to give you that will keep you alive forever. Now they're interested in this, right? So they ask him, well then what do we have to do to be doing the works of God? thinking, well if he's got some bread, he's got food that endures to eternal life, well then let's figure out what we need to do to get it. Jesus says believe. Believe in him whom he has sent. Now they don't really want to believe in Jesus. They wanted free food from him, but they don't really want to believe in him. Do we get that way sometimes? We want benefits from God, we want blessings from God, but we don't really want to trust Him. We don't really want to rest our hopes upon him. The world certainly is that way. They'll take benefits and blessings from God all day long and have an entitlement mentality regarding them and get even get angry at God If they're not getting all the benefits and blessings they think they deserve, but they don't want to believe. And Jesus says you have to believe. You have to believe. But he also says that believing is the work of God. See, there's a double meaning here. They said, what must we be doing to be doing the works of God? Which is they by that they mean the works that God requires. But then Jesus says, this is the work of God that you believe And what Jesus means is this is the work that God alone can do in your heart that you believe. And we know that that's what Jesus means because later when he unpacks it, He tells them that no one can come to him unless the Father draws him. He tells them all that the Father gives to him will come to him. He tells him he came to do the will of the Father, and the will of the Father is that everyone who looks to him would have eternal life. So it is the work of God, it is work that God alone can do. to produce faith in the heart of someone so that they would want to come to Jesus. But Jesus is still talking to them about bread at this point. And he says he's the true bread. But they don't get it still. And they just think, verse 34, I love their they're sort of frustrated. Jesus is sort of talking circles around them. They're just sort of befuddled and scratching their heads and talking to each other. Who's this guy talking about? So they just say at the end of verse 34, give us this bread always. Like, we want some food, Jesus. We're hungry. We're tired of having to work every day just to eat. Please feed us. Please give us this bread always. And so Jesus gets plain with them, very straightforward in verse 35, and he says, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall never hunger, whoever believes in me shall never thirst. This is Hebrew parallelism here in his talk. If you come to Jesus, that means to believe in Jesus. And to never hunger or thirst means you have eternal life But he says, you've seen me and yet you don't believe. Well then who will believe? Because these guys saw miracles. Some people say, man, if I could have only seen Jesus do miracles, then I would believe. Well these guys saw Jesus do miracles They don't believe, so who is it that is going to believe? All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. Hmm. Verse 39. This is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me. But raise it up on the last day. So Jesus is saying that there is a people of God, a people whom God the Father gives to God the Son as an inheritance, and those people will come to Jesus. and they will never be cast out. They will come to Jesus and they will be raised up on the last day. This this ties together effectual calling. predestination and eternal security or the perseverance of the saints all together in one. This is from Jesus. Who comes to Jesus? Those whom the Father gives to Jesus. Will all of those whom the Father gives to Jesus come? Yes, all of them will come. How many of those who come will be lost? None of them. They will be kept eternally secure. They will persevere until the last day when they are raised up. Everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him shall have eternal life. Sometimes people misunderstand doctrines like predestination and effectual calling and they think, well, if God predestines you, then it doesn't matter what you do. No, it does matter. You need to believe on Jesus. That's very clear. What's very, very clear from this passage is you need to believe on Jesus Christ. To have eternal life. And if you believe on Jesus Christ, you will have eternal life. So from a human perspective, we can say with confidence, you must believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. To have eternal life, because he is the bread of life, and if you will believe on him, you will have eternal life. But the truth, the deeper truth, is that no one's going to answer that call unless the Father gives him to the Son. Or, as verse 44 says, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. You're going to stay hardened in unbelief disinterested in Jesus, disbelieving in Jesus, unless the Father draws you, draws you by the Holy Spirit, draws you by his grace, and then you will come, and then you will believe You see, Jesus even appeals to Scripture here and says, It is written in the prophets, and they will be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. So it's the Father who through the Spirit quickens the heart, convinces of the truth, so that we come to Jesus. Well then Jesus starts talking about eating his flesh and drinking his blood, and that becomes a little bit strange to the people to hear. I mean We may be used to that language because we've read John 6 before, but if we had been there on that day, it would have been strange to our ears to hear too. What do you mean, feed on my flesh and drink my blood? And there are some people in in history, in church history, who have taken this literally and who have said things like, in the Lord's Supper, the bread becomes the flesh of Christ, and the wine becomes the blood of Christ. so that you can eat the flesh of Christ and drink the blood of Christ. But that is not really what Jesus means. What Jesus means here is just the same thing as what he meant before, and that is you have to come to him and you have to believe on him It's the same exact language. Look at verse 54. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. Right? And I will raise him up on the last day. Now jump with me back up to verse um 40. For this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day So the strong parallelism between verse 40 and verse 54 tells us that feeding on the flesh of Jesus, drinking the blood of Jesus is really A metaphor for believing in Jesus, receiving Jesus. See what happens when you eat something? It becomes part of you. You internalize it, it's absorbed into your body, it becomes you There's a union between your food and drink and your very own body. And faith unites us to Christ in such a way that Christ is ours and we are his. And we know that Jesus is talking spiritual language here because in verse 63 he says, It is the Spirit who gives life, the flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. In other words, chewing on a bit of the flesh of Christ or drinking some of the blood of Christ, in addition to being just disgusting because it's cannibalistic and it's completely against God's word, is also not helpful because it doesn't have faith. It doesn't have spirituality. It doesn't have real life behind it And so this is a completely misunderstanding the whole point Jesus is making to try to say that if you just eat the bread and drink the wine of communion. or the Eucharist or the Lord's Supper, that somehow that means you're receiving Jesus and you're going to have eternal life. That denies the need for faith It perverts the Lord's Supper into being something that it's not. It misunderstands the fundamental truth of what Jesus is teaching here. And what Jesus is teaching here. Is that the Spirit gives life by drawing people to trust in Jesus So that we become part of Jesus. Jesus becomes part of us. By that faith, we receive Him as the nourishment of our souls, as the sustenance of our lives. And we rest on him for salvation. He's the only one who can save us. Many of his uh Followers at this point get offended and they start to leave, verse 66 says, and Jesus turns to the twelve and says, Do you want to go away as well? I love what Simon Peter says here. Simon Peter gets a lot of bad rap because he says a lot of foolish things, but what he says here is absolutely right Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, and we have believed and come to know that you are the Holy One of God. There's no one else who can save us. There's no one else who is the bread of life. There's no one else who takes away our sins. There's no one else who gives us eternal life. And what me what what we must do is look to Him by faith, trust in Him. and abide in him. He will keep us. He will hold us fast. He will not let us go if we turn to him by faith. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, thank you for giving yourself for us. You gave your life so that we could have eternal life You took our sins upon yourself so that we could live forever. Lord Jesus, make us holy. Lord Jesus, make us yours We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for John 6. And tomorrow we are going to go back to the book of Job and pick up with Job. 39, I think, is where we are. Have a blessed day in the Lord