Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you and glad you're here with me for our 880th day. Together in the Word of God, as we're in John chapter 16. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is truth. You've made us your people by the light of your truth, by the grace of your Holy Spirit. You've drawn us to Christ. You've gathered us together today to be in your word. Please write John 16 in our hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, John sixteen. I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God, and they will do these things because they have not known me, they have not known the Father nor me. But I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes you may remember that I told them to you. I did not say these things to you from the beginning because I was with you. But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me where are you going but because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage. that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you, and when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment, concerning sin because they do not believe in me, concerning righteousness because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer concerning judgment because the ruler of this world is judged. I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now When the Spirit of Truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine, therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you A little while, and you will see me no longer, and again a little while, and you will see me. So some of his disciples said to one another, What is this that he says to us, a little while and you will not see me, and again a little while and you will see me, and because I am going to the Father? So they were saying, What does he mean by a little while? We do not know what he is talking about. Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him So he said to them, Is this what you are asking yourself what I meant by saying, a little while and you will not see me, and again a little while and you will see me? Truly, truly I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn to joy. When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come. But when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world. So also you have sorrow now But I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you. In that day you will ask nothing of me Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask. and you will receive that your joy may be full. I have said these things to you in figures of speech The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my name. And I do not say that I will ask the Father on your behalf, for the Father Himself loves you Because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God. I came from the Father, and I have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father. His disciples said, Ah, now you are speaking plainly and not using figurative speech. Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you. This is why we believe that you came from God. Jesus answered them, Do you now believe? Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered, each one to his own home, and will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone For the Father is with me, I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart, I have overcome the world That is John chapter 16 in the ESV. This is the final chapter of Jesus' teaching of his disciples on the night that he was betrayed, as they'd made their way from the upper room to The Garden of Gethsemane, he's going to be praying for his disciples in chapter 17, which we'll look at next time we're in the Gospel of John. But let's uh let's dig into this chapter now. Jesus is warning them about the world's hatred. Jesus is warning them that because they belong to him, the world will not accept them as their own. And he tells them why he's doing this. He's doing this because he doesn't want them to expect that somehow the world would be accepting to them and then to feel shocked and dismayed and to lose faith. when the world rejects them. This is something I think 2,000 years later Christians are still struggling with. We still get dismayed when the world rejects Christianity, when the world thinks that Christianity is irrational or childish or foolish or for simple-minded idiots or for bigots or for narrow-minded people or whatever names they call Christians. And they marginalize and they reject, and we take that personally, and we act like, oh no, if if the world questions the truth of my Christian faith, how do I know that my Christian faith is true? Uh how do I know that Jesus is really Lord if if the whole world seems to be rejecting him? And we get sh uh shaken by that. And there have been so many Christians over the years who've tried to to compromise, to try to come up with a Christianity that would be more palatable to the world a Christianity that would be more broad-minded or would be more scientific or would be more whatever. And that is just the wrong approach. The right approach is not to be belligerently reactionary against the world, nor is the right approach to be sort of overly accommodating and trying to appease the world. The right thing to do is just to realize that the world doesn't know God. The world is under the influence of the evil one. The world is full of spiritually dead and spiritually blind people. Remember that. Don't expect the world to be a friend of Christianity. But seek to speak the truth. Seek to be faithful the way that Jesus was faithful Jesus was despised and rejected by men. He was cursed, but he did not revile in return. But he entrusted himself to the one who was able to deliver him. from death. And we need to do the same thing. Not revile in return, but entrust ourselves to God. Jesus says that when he goes away, he will send the helper. He will send the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit comes to bring conviction to the world regarding three key things, sin, righteousness, and judgment. Verse 9 tells us why the world needs conviction of sin, because they don't believe in Jesus. And since they don't believe in Jesus, they need to be convicted of their sin because Their sin separates them from God, puts them under deserved condemnation. Their sin needs to be atoned for. Their sin needs to be forgiven because they don't believe in Jesus. Verse 10, he tells us why the Holy Spirit needs to convict the world of righteousness. It's because he says, I go to the Father, and you see me no longer. You see, while Jesus was in the world, we had a living display. A visual aid as to what righteousness looks like. With Jesus out of the world, there is no one righteous, not even one. And so the Holy Spirit needs to convict people of what righteousness is. is. And so we have this sense of this is not the way things ought to be. They ought to be better. We ought to be more loving. We ought to be more just we ought to be more fair. We ought to be because we need the con Diction of rights Of what ought to be, because we no longer have Jesus as a living example of that in the world among us. And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judgment. Now that's an interesting way to put it, but here's why people need to be convicted of that, because if you follow the ways of the world. You are following the ruler of the world, and the ruler of the world is judged already. He was condemned when Christ died on the cross and sealed his doom and rose again from the dead with the keys. of death and Hades. Satan and his minions, who have such deep influence over the ways of the world, they are condemned. And so if anybody follows after the ways of the world, they're following after one who is condemned. So the world needs to hear these things. Christians can bear testimony about these things. Christians can bear testimony about the moral law of God. and call sin sin. Christians can bear testimony about the coming judgment. And Christians can bear testimony about the righteousness that is in Jesus. But it's only the Holy Spirit who can bring conviction Conviction. See, sometimes we can be tempted to think that if I come up with just the right argument, or if I say it strongly enough, or if I plead passionately enough, or if I cry over it, that somehow I can convict someone of their sin and of righteousness. Of judgment. I can't do that. The Holy Spirit can, and the Holy Spirit will. I can simply speak the truth in love, and I can pray for the Holy Spirit to bring Now that's what the Holy Spirit does in the world. What does the Holy Spirit do in our hearts? Well, the Holy Spirit, when he comes, the Spirit of the truth, he guides you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, he will take from what is mine, he will declare it to you. We know Jesus. We have the New Testament. We have the conviction and the guidance and the encouragement of the Holy Spirit because Jesus has sent him to us. And the Holy Spirit guides us into all the truth that we need to know about who Jesus is, about where he is, reigning at the right hand of God the Father, far above all earthly powers. What he is doing, sovereignly advancing his kingdom, bringing in his elect, glorifying the Father, and what he's going to do, he will come again to do judge the living and the dead. We need to know that so that we can know where we fit into his story and we can have confidence of the things that we have been called to believe. Jesus then talks about how he says, A little while you'll see me no longer, after a little while you will see me. What does he mean by this? What he means is he's going to go away and they won't see him. That could be a reference to the death and the burial, the period between the crucifixion and the resurrection. That's that first little bit, right? A little while, you will not see me again a little while, and you will see me because I'm going to the Father. Jesus on the cross said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. So his spirit went to God the Father, and then he came back again, and he was with them again for those days in between. the resurrection and the ascension, but then after that, they didn't see him because he went back to the Father. But then the Holy Spirit came and brought truth and brought union with Christ and brought the presence of Christ to their midst. So while the disciples were weeping and lamenting after the crucifixion of Jesus and his burial The world was rejoicing. But then, when Jesus rose again from the dead and poured out his Holy Spirit, the disciples rejoiced greatly, first at seeing the resurrected Christ, and then at receiving the Holy Spirit. This is a preview for us. Right now, when we live in this world, we live with a profound sense That we have the Holy Spirit in us who guides us and who gives us assurance, but we are absent from the Lord. To be present in the body is to be absent from the Lord. And we desire to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. And while we're in this life, the we we suffer the world's rejection, we suffer Satan's temptation, we suffer our fleshly doubts. And struggles, but we will be with Jesus. And when we are with Jesus, whether he comes back again first or we die and go to be with him, when we are with Jesus, we will be in such trouble. Joy. There will be no more sorrow, and no one will be able to take the joy away from us. And until that day, we do have a peace. We do have an inner joy and an inner peace that Jesus has given to us, knowing that we belong to Him, knowing that nothing can separate us from His love, knowing that He is with us and we are with Him, we have an inner peace, an inner confidence. That allows us to pray and ask the Father and to receive what we need in order to have full joy. And the only way we're going to have full joy is not by material possessions and earthly conquests The only way we're going to have full joy is by the fullness of Christ in us and the spiritual fruitfulness of Christ in us. And so we ask the Father to make us more fruitful and to make us more faithful. And Jesus says we can ask and we'll receive. But we do still live in tribulation. And so he closes out this chapter by saying, I said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. We get peace by knowing who Jesus is, where Jesus is. What he has done, what he is doing, what he is going to do, right? The Jesus story, and then how we fit into that, who we are in Christ What privileges we have as his own beloved ones, the access we have to the Father, the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit, the ministry of prayer. So we have Christ, his identity, his purpose, his story. We have ourselves, our identity, our purpose, our story. As we see these things united together, we have heart. We have peace, we have joy, we have strength in a world where we have tribulation. All around us, there's things beating on us, buffeting us, doubts. temptations, accusations, the hatred of the world. But it cannot shake either who Christ is or what we have in Christ. And it's the Holy Spirit who strengthens this bond. In worship, in prayer, in devotion, in scripture, in fellowship. And that is something that the world doesn't have, the world doesn't understand, the world can mock. But the world cannot take away. Christian, live in Christ today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have saved us out of this world and have saved us into Christ, our Redeemer. Help us to walk in Christ. Help us to live in Christ. Help us to rejoice in Christ today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for this time in John 16. We are going to go back to the book of Jeremiah tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.