Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter for day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, our 850th day together in the Word of God. Brings us to John chapter 8. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this wonderful chapter in your word, John 8. Would you write it on our hearts and help us to see Jesus as he clearly reveals himself in this chapter, that we might believe and live by faith in him, in Jesus. Well last time I said that John 8 is one of the great chapters of the Bible, and it is one of the places where Jesus most clearly reveals who He is and the importance of believing in Him. for who he is. So let's um let's get into God's word together. John Eight They each went to his own house, but Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. Early in the morning he came again to the temple. All the people came to him, and he sat down and taught them. The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and placing her in the midst, they said to him, Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery Now in the law Moses commanded us to stone such women, so what do you say? This they said to test him, that they might have some charge to bring against him. Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground, and as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her. And once more he bent down and wrote on the ground, but when they heard it, they went away one by one, beginning with the older ones, and Jesus was left alone with the woman standing there before him. Jesus stood up and said to her, Woman, Where are they? Has no one condemned you? She said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn you. Go, and from now on sin no more. Again, Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life So the Pharisees said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself. Your testimony is not true. Jesus answered, Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true. For I know where I came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I am going. You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one Yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for it is not I alone who judge, but I and the Father who sent me In your law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. I am one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me. They said to him, Therefore, Where is your father? Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. These words he spoke in the treasury, as he taught in the temple, but no one arrested him, because his hour had not yet come. So he said to them again, I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. So the Jews said, Will he kill himself? Since he says, Where I am going you cannot come? He said to them, You are from below. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. So they said to him, Who are you? Jesus said to them, Just what I have been telling you from the beginning. I have so much to say to you, and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to you I'm sorry, and I declare to the world what I have heard from him. They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about his father. So Jesus said to them, When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He, and that I do nothing of my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me, and he who sent me. is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. As he was saying these things, many believed in him So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. They answered him, We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house. Forever, the sun remains forever. So if the sun sets you free, you will be free indeed. I know that you are offspring of Abraham, yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. I speak of what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you have heard from your Father They answered him, Abraham is our father, Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. You are doing the works your father did. They said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God. Jesus said to them, If God were your Father. you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but He sent me Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desire He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar, and the father of lies. But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me. Which of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? Me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. Then Jesus answered him, Are we not right in saying you are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge Truly, truly, I say to you, if any one keeps my word, he will never see death. The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have a demon Abraham died, as did the prophets. Yet you say if anyone keeps my word he will never taste death? Are you greater than our father Abraham who died? And the prophets died? Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say He is our God But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him And I keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him. But Jesus hid himself and went out. of the temple. That is John chapter 8 in the ESV. Now a quick side note, and I don't really want to go into detail on this, but you'll notice that the beginning of John chapter 8 The note in the ESV says the earliest manuscripts do not include 753 to 811. This whole story here at the beginning of John chapter 8 of the woman caught in adultery And how Jesus responds to that. It's actually not found in any of the Greek manuscripts of the Bible. before about the year 1000. So about the first thousand years of Greek manuscript do not have this in the Gospel of John. Actually the earliest Greek manuscript that has this story places it in the Gospel of Luke. And it's interesting, just style-wise, it reads, especially in Greek, much more like something Luke would write. than something that John's gospel would have. Um there are some older non-Greek manuscripts that have this in it, but there are a lot of Greek manuscripts from before the year 1000 And none of them have this story in it. So I don't think it's part of John's gospel. Does that mean it didn't happen? I don't think so. I think it probably could be something that did happen And it may have been part of the background material that Luke had compiled to do his gospel, maybe We don't know. So I'm not going to say much about it except to say that Jesus here is revealing himself as one who can forgive sin and one who can set people free from condemnation. And that's a very important thing for us as He is our Savior who sets us forgives our sin and sets us free from condemnation. But I think if you read John without that section You he's in the middle of having this discourse with the religious leaders, and in verse 52 they reply, Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee. Here they're talking Nicodemus and And then it picks up with again Jesus spoke to them saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness. So there was this discourse and then there's this side conversation that the Sadducees and Pharisees are having and then Jesus picks up again and is talking to them. I think the flow of John's gospel makes more sense without that story of the woman caught in adultery, which I don't think is original to John's gospel. It's my opinion. I could be wrong about that. Doesn't mean it didn't happen. Doesn't mean we shouldn't Read it and learn from it. But let's begin in verse 12. I am the light of the world. Think about the profound nature of saying that. Jesus says, I am the light of the world. In the very beginning, the beginning of John's Gospel points us back to the beginning of all things in John chapter. Genesis 1. John 1, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. All things were made through Him, right? Without Him was not anything made that happen has been made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness is not overcoming. That's all part of John's prologue in John chapter one, and it's hearkening back to the beginning of Genesis in the beginning. When God spoke, and what's the first thing God speaks in creation? Let there be light. So you have the Word of God bringing forth the light of God into the world world. And Jesus now says, I am the light of the world. That is a profound statement and something that no mere human being could ever say about themselves. He's the Word of God, he's the light of the world. Now the Pharisees are offended by this, and they say, oh, you're just bearing witness about yourself. And much of what goes on in the discourse between Jesus and the Pharisees and the religious leaders is them saying, Who is your witness? Where's your corroboration? Of course, Jesus has already done miraculous signs They've seen those things, and he keeps telling them about his Father, who testifies with him. And he's already told them earlier that the scriptures testify. to who he is. His works, the miraculous works he does, testify to who he is. This is the Father's witness that is confirming his own witness. He says, just because I'm bearing testimony about myself doesn't make me a liar. I'm telling the truth. But I'm not the only one speaking. The Father also speaks. And this is part of our Trinitarian theology in verse 17. In your law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about Jesus is very clear that there are two persons, two people, the Father and the Son, and yet there's one God. At the very end of this chapter, Jesus is very clear that He's God when He says, before Abraham was I am. So Jesus is building his case of his true divinity, and that by calling himself the Son of the Father, and the Son sent from the Father, and the light of the world, He is saying that he is Yahweh, the great I Am, come into the world in the flesh from the Father. the Son of God. And he's saying that they are two persons, distinct persons, and yet there's still one God. This is part of the Trinitarian theology and the Holy Spirit being one is another. So we have three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, yet one God. So there's this Jesus teaching in the treasury in the temple. He's speaking openly about how God is his father. He's challenging them that they don't really know God as their father as they claim Because if they had known God as their Father, then they would have recognized Jesus as the Son of God. And then he says this ambiguous thing in verse twenty one, I'm going away and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. And they don't understand where he's going to go, that they wouldn't be able to find him. Of course, he's going to go back to the Father from where he's come. But after he goes back to the Father in A. D. 70, he's going to send judgment upon the people of Israel because they don't believe, the people of Jerusalem, because they rejected him. And this is the warning in verse 24. I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. This is a very strong statement, but they kind of miss it. Jesus is saying, unless you believe that I am, I am He. I am, I am Right? Unless you believe that I am, you will die in your sins. And so they responded saying, who are you? Because he's just saying, unless you believe I am, you will die in your sins. So saying, who? You are who, right? Who are you? And he says just what I've been telling you from the beginning. That is, he's the Son sent by the Father. He's the light of the world. He's the Son of God. They don't want to believe that though. He says they're going to know it when they lift him up. That is when they put him on the cross. Because what happens when they put him on the cross? The sky turns black. In the middle of the day, the temple tears in two, temple curtain that separates the holy place from the most holy place. The temple curtain tears in two from top to bottom. And even the centurion supervising the crucifixion says, surely this man is the Son of God. He says, you'll know. Of course, they continue in their stubborn unbelief even after that point. But he says he's doing what God sent him to do, and God testifies who he is. And so he says, basically, all you need to do is watch the works, read the scriptures, listen to God as your father, and you would know the truth. To drive this home, he says in verse 31: If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. And they don't want to hear this. They just do not want to hear it. So they say, we are the offspring of Abraham. We've never been enslaved to anyone. How can you say you will become free. This is so utterly absurd, the freedom that they're claiming. They're currently under Roman occupation. They currently have a Roman governor, Pontius Pilate, and Roman soldiers occupying their land. And they say, we are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. For most of the last 500 to 600 years, they've been slaves. Functionally, they've been under greater world powers, the Babylonians, and then the Persians, and then the Greeks, and now the Romans. They did have a brief period of time of freedom under the Maccabees, but they've been slaves. Jesus says, I'll set you free. Free in a way that no earthly power could ever truly rule over you, because you would be a son of God. But that's not even the kind of slavery he's talking about. He's talking about a slavery that even applies to us as Americans, though we live in the land of the free, because he says, truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. That's a sobering word. Do we believe that? If you've sinned even once, and we've all sinned hundreds and hundreds of times. But if you've sinned, you're a slave to sin, and that's why we've sinned hundreds and hundreds of times. That's why we can say, oh, I know it's wrong to do that. I want to stop doing that, and we don't stop doing it. Why? Because we are slaves to sin And the slave does not remain, but the son remains. And so if the son sets you free, you'll be free indeed. Do you want to be free? Keep the word of Jesus. Believe in who he is. You'll be his disciple. You'll be free indeed. The Son will set you free. But they weren't interested. They're still claiming Abraham as their father. And he says, if that's true, you would do the same things that Abraham did. Abraham lived by faith. Abraham lived by faith in the Son of God, anticipating the day that would come. They weren't. Now they are making all sorts of innuendo about Jesus in this chapter. One of the things that's very fascinating about John's Gospel is he brings out some of the innuendo that they threw around. to imply things about Jesus. You see the rumors that were going around about Jesus, because everybody knew that Joseph and Mary had not yet consummated their marriage when Jesus Jesus was conceived and born. So they said, We were not born of sexual immorality, innuendo, like you were, right? Later they're going to say, Aren't we right in saying that you are are a Samaritan and have a demon. Samaritan was a word for mixed race, where you weren't purebred Jewish. One of the stories that went around about Jesus is that Mary was raped by a Roman soldier, and that's how she got impregnated with Jesus Of course, we know that's not true. We know that she was a virgin and he was virgin-born because he's the son of God. But if you reject Jesus as virgin, You reject him as the Son of God, you have to come up with some other explanation. And so that was their other explanation. He's a Samaritan, a half-breed, with a Roman soldier for a father. It's why he was so sympathetic to Samaritans. That's why he did wasn't afraid of the Samaritans, right? He's this this demon-possessed one. We hear in other Gospels even he's accused of casting out demons by the power of the Elzebub by the Prince of Demons. But Jesus is not any of these things, of course. He's telling the truth. In fact, he turns the tables on them and says, You are of your father, the devil. And your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning. He does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar, and the father of lies But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me. Sometimes the one thing people do not want to hear is the truth. They'll fall for any old kind of lie that comes down the pipe. But they don't want to hear the truth. And Jesus says the reason that you don't hear it, the reason why you don't hear the words of God is because you're not of God. This will be set up again for what's going to come in John chapter 10, where he's going to say to them, You don't follow me because you're not my sheep. You don't hear my voice. You don't believe in me because you're not my sheep. The reason why you don't hear the words of God is because you are not of God. See only going back to John chapter three, only those who are born of God Or John chapter six, only those whom the Father has given to the Son, only those whom the Father draws to the Son. Here only those who are of God. John chapter ten, only those who are the sheep of God, only they Hear the effectual call of God. Only they hear the Word of God internally, the ones who are born again, born of the Spirit, given to the Son by the Father, drawn to the Son by the Father. Father, the ones who are of God, the ones who are sheep of God, the ones who hear his voice and know him, those are the ones who come to salvation. For everybody else They're just like the Pharisees and the religious leaders in this passage. They hear about Jesus and they think, oh, he's just some guy. Oh, he's just. Oh, he's just. Dismiss, diminish. If you believe in Jesus, it's because God has drawn you and God has given you life. And Jesus says in verse 51: Anyone who keeps my word will never see death. Now they can't handle this because Abraham died, and all the prophets died, and they had many of their tombs marked out in Israel. Many of them are still there to this day. And then Jesus unveils the big punch at the end of the chapter because he says, Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. You see, Abraham didn't really die. He went into Abraham's bosom in the place of waiting, in the place of expectant hope for those who died in faith And by faith he saw the day of Jesus. And the Jews say, you're not even 50 years old. Jesus probably about 32 years old at this time. You're not even 50 years old. Have you seen Abraham? He lived 1900 years ago. And Jesus says, truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was, I. This is because they missed it before when he said, unless you believe that I am, you will die in your sins. So now he says, before Abraham was, I am Full stop. No doubt what he's saying. The fact that they understood that he was saying what he was saying is shown by the fact they pick up stones to throw at him But he hides himself and goes out of the temple to again demonstrate that he is the sovereign one. He is in control. Okay, so what do we learn from this chapter? One. Jesus is God Hopefully you know that. And that the Trinity is God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, three persons, one God. And that you must believe in Jesus to be saved. If you don't believe that Jesus is God, you will die in your sins. But if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed. If you believe his words, you will never see death. If you have come to that place of faith, it's because you are of God. You are born of God. So give thanks to God. If you haven't yet come to that place, is God calling you today? Do you hear his voice in this word from him to confess Jesus To let him set you free and give you eternal life. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are the author of life. You give us our life in this world and you give us life in Eternity. You alone are the life giver. Thank you for salvation in your Son Jesus May we trust in him and speak of him to all who come into our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well that is John chapter 8. Thanks for joining me for that. Tomorrow we're going to go back to Ecclesiastes, picking up with probably the most famous passage in all of the Ecclesiastes, Ecclesiastes chapter 3. Have a blessed day in the Lord.