Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill President. Church. It is our eight hundred and seventy-fourth day together in the Word of God, and we're in John 14, a wonderful chapter. Let's pray and seek the Lord together. Father in heaven, thank you for your son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, and thank you for your word that so clearly shows us Christ, our need for him, the salvation we have in him. And what it means to walk by faith in Him. We pray that your Holy Spirit would write John 14 on our hearts today, and we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. John 14. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms, if it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and will take you to myself that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long? And you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, Show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority But the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on the account of the works themselves Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do, and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. If you love me, you will keep my commandments, and I will ask the Father, and He will give you another helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive. Because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans, I will come to you Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you in you. Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world? Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me He will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you, But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. You heard me say to you, I am going away, and I will come to you. If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than me And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place, you may believe I am I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me, but I do as the Father has commanded me. So that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here. That is John 14 Jesus is in the upper room with his disciples. They have shared in the Last Supper. He has instituted the Lord's Supper. He has washed their feet. He has given them the new command that he they are to love one another even as he has loved them. And now he's continuing to teach them. And he tells them that they do not need to have troubled hearts. And then he says, believe in God, believe also in me. Now, the believe in God part. is translated here as a command, but it could also be translated as a statement. You believe in God, believe also in me. Either way, it's Jesus calling for them to live a life of faith, faith in him, as the key to not having a troubled heart. You see, our circumstances differ. They vary. They change. They're unpredictable. They're uncontrollable. We don't know what today will bring. We don't know what tomorrow will bring. How can we have peace? Jesus said we can have peace by believing in him, by trusting in his promises, by trusting in his finished work. He tells us, In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself that where I am you may be also. This is why we can have hearts that are troubled, because no matter what happens to us in this life, this is not our final home We have a final home with God, with Jesus in heaven, where Jesus is preparing a place for us, and we will be with him. He's going to take us to himself. We're going to be with him forever. So no matter what ups and downs we face through this life, we know where we're going, and that should give us peace. It's an old hymn that says, I know not what the future holds, but I know who holds the future. When my kids were little, sometimes they would get scared during a movie with suspense and unpredictability like in The Lion King or in Frozen or one of those movies. What what's gonna happen? And they they would make me stop the movie. They'd say, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, Daddy. And so I would press pause and they would look at me and they would say, Does it have a happy ending? And I would say, yes, it has a happy ending. You promise that it has a happy ending? And I would say, Yes, I promise that it has a happy ending. And they would take a deep breath, they would say, okay Press play. They needed their father's promise that it would have a happy ending so that they could go through the turmoil of the uncertainty of the middle part. His son that our life in Christ has a very happy ending. We can trust him through all of it. Now Thomas Thomas says to him, Lord, we don't even know where you're going. How can we know the way? And Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father. Except through me. He says, I'm the way to God, I'm the truth of God, I'm the life of God, I'm your access to the Father, I'm your access to heaven. I am all that you need. If you've known me, you would have known my father also. And from now on you do know him and have seen him. And Philip now chimes up. One of the things I love about this part of John's Gospel is we get to hear people speak disciples who don't who aren't recorded as speaking in the other gospels. Philip now speaks up and says, Lord, show us the Father. It's enough for us. And here Jesus says something profound, which is, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father, because I am in the Father and the Father is in me. This is another way of Jesus trying to teach them this Trinity concept, that there's one God One being, one essence, one God, and Father, Son, and Holy Spirit They interdwell one another. They are in each other. They're distinct from each other because the Son is not the Father. The Father is not the Son. The Spirit is not the Father or the Son. They're distinct from one another, and yet they indwell with one another as one God. And so he is in the Father, the Father is in him, and that's why he can do the works that only God can do That's ultimately why our salvation is as powerful as it is, because it's the work of God done by God in the person of Jesus Christ. Now he tells us something amazing in verse 12. Whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do, and greater works than these will he do. Because I'm going to the Father. Now, some people latch onto this and say, if we were really Christians and we were really in Christ and Christ was really in us, we would be giving sight to the blind. We would be raising the dead. And to that I say, if you understand what Jesus is saying here, we do in the most important way. And that is, we have the Holy Spirit who dwells within us. And as we speak the Word of God, as we witness about Jesus, as we share the life-giving message of the gospel, blind eyes are given sight. And the dead are raised to life in Christ. And that's not a cop-out. That's not a, oh, but you're not doing the same miracles that Jesus Listen, Jesus did a lot of miracles for a number of years. He healed and he fed and he raised and he cast out over and over again. At the end of it all, He only had about 120 disciples. Most people who saw the outward miracles never experienced the inward miracle of eternal life. There's the Samaritan village in Sikar. There's a couple of other pockets of believers, but gathered together as the church in Jerusalem in the upper room were about a hundred and twenty people. On Pentecost, when the Holy Spirit was poured out 3,000 people came to know the Lord in a single day. That's a greater work than anything Jesus ever did because they didn't just receive temporary sight that would be taken again when they died. Or physical healing. They received eternal life. They received a life that nothing could ever take away. And that's what we are privileged. To receive that and to extend that to others by the power of the Holy Spirit. It is greater work to see the salvation of now a countless multitude from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation Jesus calls us to love him and to keep his commandments. You know, the measure of your love for Jesus is not the emotional feelings you have in a worship service on Sunday morning. It's not the volume of your singing. It's not the earnestness of your promises. All of those things can be emotional and fleshly, and certainly we should sing out with gusto and joy because we love the Lord. But the real measure of how much we love the Lord is whether or not we do what he says. If he's our Lord and Savior, if he is God incarnate, if he is the wisdom of God in human flesh, we ought to do what he says. And the Holy Spirit is the one who comes and dwells in us and who convicts us and who brings God to us and brings us to God so that we can live not as orphans. Again Jesus says in verse twenty one Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and make myself manifesting. to him, is Jesus teaching here salvation by obedience? No, but he is he is teaching here That heartfelt and sincere obedience is the right and necessary fruit of salvation. It's not salvation by obedience, but it's salvation that brings obedience. Jesus says, Whoever has my commandments and keeps them. Jesus says in verse 23, if anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words, and the word that you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. When you hear the Word of God, do you say yes and amen? And is it your sincere heart desire to do? What Jesus said at the beginning, believe in him. Come to God through him. Trust in him. Love one another as he has loved us. Is that your heart's longing? Say, yes, Lord. Amen. It is true and I want to do it. Then that is a sure sign that you belong to the Holy Spirit. You belong to Jesus. You have the Holy Spirit. Because the Holy Spirit comes, He teaches us all things, He brings to remembrance the things that Jesus says to us. And He He gives us that new heart. He gives us that new will. Now Jesus gives us a peace that the world cannot give. Yesterday we were in Jeremiah 6 and we heard that some people say peace, peace where there is no peace. That's the way the world gives peace. The world gives peace by saying peace, peace, where there is no peace. Jesus says, I'm going to give you my very own peace so that your hearts will not be troubled. And they will not be afraid. I am going away, but I will come to you in the person of the Holy Spirit. And you should rejoice because I'm going to the Father. And if I go to the Father, you're going to have the benefit of the Holy Spirit. He's going to talk more about the next time we're in John. John's gospel. But he closes out this section of his teaching on this final night with his disciples by saying, I've told you all these things before they take place. I'm not going to talk with you much longer. But I'm going to do as the Father commands me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. See, Jesus is only asking us to do what he himself has already done. If you love, you obey. He loves his father, he obeys his father, even though it's really, really hard. If we love Jesus, we should obey Jesus. Again, not to earn salvation, but as the fruit of the salvation that the Holy Spirit has worked in us. Well, do you love Jesus? Do you belong to Him? Are you trusting in Him? Have you received His peace So different from what the world gives, do you know that your story, your life story, has a very happy ending? I pray that you do. And I pray that you would share that good news with others today. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for Jesus, our Savior, the way, the truth, and the life. Thank you for the salvation we have only and fully in Him Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for John 14. Tomorrow, back to the prophet Jeremiah. Have a blessed day in the Lord.