Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're now on our fourth day of our 21st week as we're journeying through the Gospels together. We're in Luke. Chapter 3. We're going to be looking at the ministry of John the Baptist in verses 1 to 22. And so we're asking, who was John the Baptist and what was his ministry? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for another time together in your word, and thank you for your Son, our Savior. We pray that you would teach us as we spend time in your word together That your Holy Spirit would lead us in loving Jesus and being more like him. We pray this in his name. Amen. Luke three. In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being the governor of Judea, and Herod being Tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip, Tetrarch of the region of Eturia and Traconidas and Licinius, Tetrarch of Abilene, during the high priesthood of Anas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John, the son of Zechariah, in the wilderness. And he went into all the region around the Jordan, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord. Make his paths straight. Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be made low And the crooked shall become straight, and the rough places shall become level ways, and all flesh shall see the salvation of God. He said therefore to the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruits in keeping with repentance, and do not begin to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father, for I tell you God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. And the crowds asked him, What then shall we do? And he answered them, Whoever has two tunics is to share with him who has none, and whoever has food is to do likewise Tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, Teacher, what shall we do? And he said to them, Collect no more than you are authorized to do. Soldiers also asked him, and we, what shall we do? And he said to them, Do not extort money from any one by threats or by false accusation, and be content with your wages. As the people were in expectation and all were questioning in their hearts concerning John whether he might be the Christ, John answered them all, saying, I baptize you with water. But he who is mightier than I is coming, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. His winnowing fork is in his hand to clear his threshing floor and to gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. So with many other exhortations he preached good news to the people. But Herod the Tetrarch, who had been reproved by him for Herodias, his brother's wife, for all the evil things that Herod had done Added this to them all, that he locked up John in prison. Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, The heavens were opened, and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove, and a voice came from heaven, You are my beloved Son. With you I am well pleased. John the Baptist is one of the most compelling and confusing characters in the Gospels. All four Gospels clearly place the ministry of Jesus in the context of the ministry of John the Baptist. They all show us John baptizing and preaching throughout Judea before Jesus comes on the scene. John wore a garment of camel's hair. with a leather belt around his waist, and he ate locusts and wild honey while living out in the wilderness. To the first century Jewish community, this bizarre clothing and behavior sent a clear message. John was a great prophet sent by God, like Elijah. But who exactly was John and why was he sent? Well, Luke gives us the most historical detail about John, while the Gospel of John gives us the clearest insight into his theological role in the coming of Jesus. So what do we know about John? First, John was conceived miraculously as God's gift to a childless elderly couple, Zechariah and Elizabeth. In this way, John's conception and birth echo God's promise to Abraham and Sarah, fulfilled in the birth of Isaac. It signifies from God that John is a significant figure in God's dealings with his people. Second, John was the last of the Old Testament prophets. If you ask most Christians who was the last Old Testament prophet, they would probably say Malachi. But the Old Testament indicates not so much a section of the Bible as an era in covenant history under the Old Covenant, the law of Moses. In this sense, John was the last Old Testament prophet, and Jesus later indicates that John was the greatest of all the Old Testament prophets. Third, John was sent to prepare the way for Jesus. John's ministry was a fulfillment of Isaiah 40, verses 3 to 5, as Luke 3, 4-6 indicates. John's message was simple: prepare the way. For the Lord, for the long-awaited Messiah. If the people accepted John as a prophet, then they would be more likely to accept his testimony about Jesus. Fourth, John humbly exalted Jesus. John did not try to steal Jesus' glory or role for himself. He humbly pointed people away from himself and to Christ. And fifth, John preached repentance, and he baptized with a baptism of repentance. To repent means to change your mind. to turn away from your sin and toward God. John wanted God's people to see that being Jewish, being descendants of Abraham, was not in and of itself enough. They needed to repent of their sinful attitudes and actions and seek the Lord. In the end, John the Baptist did not live to see Jesus bring the salvation promised to God's people. And so he belongs to the company of Old Testament saints, who, though commended through their faith, did not receive what was promised, as Hebrews 1139 says Yet through his testimony, many came to believe in Jesus, and he serves as a model of faithful witness for all of us. Who would seek to magnify Jesus and see others come to know him through our testimony? Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 105. Psalm 105, O give thanks to the Lord, call upon his name, make known his deeds among the peoples. Sing to him, sing praises to him, tell of all his wondrous works, glory in his holy name. Let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice. Seek the Lord and His strength. Seek His presence continually. Remember the wondrous works that He has done, His miracles, and the judgments he uttered O offspring of Abraham, his servant, children of Abraham, children of Jacob, his chosen ones, he is the Lord our God. His judgments are in all the earth. He remembers his covenant forever, the word that he commanded for a thousand generations, the covenant that he made with Abraham. his sworn promise to Isaac, which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute, to Israel as an everlasting covenant, saying, To you I will give the land of Canaan as your portion for an inheritance, when they were but few in number. of little account, and sojourners in it, wandering from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people, he allowed no one to oppress them. He rebuked kings on their account, saying, Touch not my anointed ones. do my prophets no harm. When he summoned a famine on the land and broke all supply of bread, he had sent a man ahead of them, Joseph, who was sold as a slave His feet were hurt with fetters, his neck was put in a collar of iron, until what he had said came to pass. The word of the Lord tested him The king sent and released him. The ruler of the peoples set him free. He made him lord of his house and ruler of all his possessions, to bind his princes at his pleasure, and to teach his elders wisdom. Then Israel came to Egypt. Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham, and the Lord made his people very fruitful, and made them stronger than their foes. He turned their hearts to hate his people. to deal craftily with his servants. He sent Moses, his servant, and Aaron, whom he had chosen. They performed his signs among them, and miracles in the land of Ham. He sent darkness, and made the land dark. They did not rebel against his words. He turned their waters into blood and caused their fish to die. Their land swarmed with frogs, even in the chambers of their kings. He spoke, and there came swarms of flies and gnats throughout their country. He gave them hail for rain and fiery lightning bolts throughout their land. He struck down their vines and fig trees, and shattered the trees of their country. He spoke, and the locusts came, young locusts without number, which devoured all the vegetation in their land, and ate up the fruit of their ground. He struck down all the firstborn in their land, the firstborn of all their strength. Then he brought out Israel with silver and gold, and there was none among his tribes who stumbled Egypt was glad when they departed, for dread of them had fallen upon it. He spread a cloud for a covering and fire to give light by night. They asked, and he brought quail, and gave them bread from heaven in abundance. He opened the rock and water gushed out. It flowed through the desert like a river for he remembered his holy promise and Abraham his servant. So he brought out his people with joy, his chosen ones with singing, And he gave them the lands of the nations, and they took possession of the fruit of the people's toil, that they might keep his statutes and observe his Laws. Praise the Lord. Well, that's Psalm 105. Psalm 105 is a historical psalm, and sometimes those can be the trickiest for us to know how are we supposed to pray in response to them. So Those who receive the emails from me in the morning, you get a written-out prayer based upon the psalm. And I'm going to share today's written prayer. That's what I'm going to pray for us together. Um and this will just give you a a sense of how we can pray these kinds of psalms, but also if you want to receive the emails, if you're not currently receiving the emails. and you want to get them with the written out prayer for the psalm, you can email me pastor at foresthillpca. org and I'd be happy to add you to our email distribution list that goes out at about 645. every weekday morning. It's pastor at foresthillpca. org. Let's pray. We give thanks to you, O Lord, and we call upon your name. We long to make known your deeds among the peoples. We sing to you, we sing praises to you, we tell of all your wondrous works. We glory in your holy name that our hearts may rejoice as we seek you. We seek you, Lord, and your strength. We seek your presence continually. We remember the wondrous deeds that you have done, your miracles, and the judgments you uttered. We, by faith, are the offspring of Abraham, your servant. We are the children of Jacob. We are chosen by your matchless grace. And you are the Lord our God, and your judgments are in all the earth. You remember your covenant forever. The word that you commanded for a thousand generations The covenant that you made with Abraham, your sworn promise to Isaac, which you confirmed to Jacob as a statute and to Israel as an everlasting covenant, saying, to you I will give the land of Canaan as a portion for an inheritance. You confirmed and expanded this promise through your son, who said, Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth Your covenant promises are all fulfilled in your son. He is our great king, the son of Abraham, the son of David. He is the seed of Abraham and the blessing of the nations. He is our great high priest, after the order of Melchizedek. He is our spotless Passover lamb, who covers our sin and saves us from wrath. He is the word of God made flesh, the promise realized in a person. You have secured us as your people forever, that we might follow you and honor you with joy. We give thanks to you, O Lord. and we rejoice in you. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels and learning how to pray the Psalms. I hope today's devotional was a blessing to you. Hope you can join us again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.