Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Port Sill Presbyterian. Church. It is our 886th day together in the Word of God, and we are here in John chapter 17. Jesus has finished teaching his disciples on this last night with them before he's going to be betrayed and then put on trial. And now he is Praying for them. This is the high priestly prayer, or some people call this the real Lord's Prayer, as opposed to the disciples' prayer. That is Um what Jesus taught his disciples to pray that we typically call the Lord's Prayer. Alright. We're here in John seventeen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. For your word, thank you for your Son, our Savior, thank you for the hope that we have in Jesus our Lord. Thank you for his praying for us. This is a model for us to understand how our Savior can Continues to pray for us even now at your right hand where he ever lives to make intercession for his own. We thank you that we have such a Savior. And we ask that you would write this word on our hearts and help it to shape the way we pray for your church as your children. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, John 17 I can bring it up. That's my phone. Try to silence that real quick, sorry. Hold on. All right. John seventeen, when Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, The hour has come. Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you, since you have given him authority over all flesh to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have seen And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you, for I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them, and have come to know in truth that I came from you. And they have believed that you sent me. I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me For they are yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world. And I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost except the son of destruction that the scripture might be fulfilled. But now I am coming to you. And these things I speak in the world that they may have joy, my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the world But that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one just as you, Father, are in me. And I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. are one, I in them, and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me, and loved them even as you loved me Me. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me. before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you have sent me. I have made known to them your name And I will continue to make it known, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them. What a great prayer from our Lord. What a great model for us to understand, first of all, what are God's priorities for the church? What is the identity of the church? What is the calling of the church? And what are God's priorities for the church? And we are a part of that church. This is New Testament Christianity. Is most definitely church-rooted, church-centric. The mission of Jesus is the building, the establishing, the strengthening. and the advancing of the kingdom of God on earth, which is made manifest, made visible in the world through his church. And so he's praying for his disciples, but he's praying for unity, he's praying He's praying for missional purpose. He's praying for a strong sense of our identity. And that's for us to be together. This is not individualism Christianity is not an individualistic. We talk about having a personal relationship with Jesus, having a private prayer life. And those things are important. We are individually and personally Sons of God, children of God, adopted heirs of God, and we have a personal relationship with Jesus. All that is true, but we are not individualistically Okay, so when you go from being an individual to embracing individualism, as soon as you put that ism on the end of it, you end up making an idol out of your own personal preferences, your own personal feelings, and And you lose sight that Jesus is doing something bigger than just you yourself. And something like the high priestly prayer helps us to see that Jesus Jesus is working to bring us all together and to build us all up together in Christ. So he begins by talking to his Father. And saying that this hour of glory has come. What is the hour of glory? How is the Son glorified? And how does the Son glorify the Father? Well, it's through the cross. It's the hour of the cross. that has come. And that right there tells us that Christianity is a very different way of thinking about life and about our identity and our purpose than the world embraces, because the world would look at the cross and see shame, not gloom. Glory would see dishonor, not salvation. But Jesus has authority over all flesh. Jesus gives eternal life to all whom the Father has given. to him. This is a theme that we've seen throughout the Gospel of John. Very strong theme of what we might call election or of sovereign grace, God the King. The ruler, the the just and sovereign one, he gives a distinct people to Jesus. There are a people out of all the peoples of the earth whom God the Father gives to God the Son. Jesus went into detail about this in John 6 and John 10, and these are the ones that he gives eternal life to. He gives eternal life to all whom the Father has given to the the sun. And what is this eternal life? What does it mean to have eternal life? Does it just mean to have our sins forgiven and to live forever? That's part of it, but that's not the heart of it. Sometimes we take the part of it and we make it the heart of it, and we lose the heart of it. This is the heart of it. This is eternal life. That they know you, the only true God. and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent, to know God, to be known by God, to belong to God through Jesus Christ, and to know that God through Jesus Christ belongs to That is the essence of eternal life. And we'll get to the deep and profound mysteries of this later in this prayer. But Jesus has done everything that God the Father sent him to do He has lived a life of perfect and sinless obedience. He has done miracles and signs and wonders to authenticate his ministry, to validate his identity. to demonstrate the character of God and the kingdom of God. And now he's ready for his last act, which is to go to the cross. He's manifested the character of God. That's God's name. I manifested your name. He's manifested the character of God to To whom? Not everybody got it. Not even everybody who saw Jesus do great miracles got it. Who got it? Well, the ones whom the Father gave Jesus out of the World. There are people who already belonged to God. We call that predestination. That God had chosen a people for himself From before. See, he said, yours they were. And you gave them to me, and they have kept your. word. Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you, for I've given them the words that you gave me, and they've received them. This is how you know. How do we know who the people of God are? How do we know who God the Father has given to God the Son? This is how we know. When we hear the Word of God, the words That Jesus speaks from the Father, we receive them and we come to know in truth who Jesus is. In other words, we hear the gospel and we respond in faith. And that is the sure evidence But we are children of God, chosen by God and given to the Son by God the Father. And he says he's praying for us. He says he's not praying for the world. This is a high priestly prayer because the high priest would pray for the people of God. And Jesus, our high priest, prays for us as the people of God. He's not praying for the world. Those who are lost, those who are going to remain lost, those who are Those who don't belong to God, those who are never going to come to faith in God, Jesus is not praying for them. Does that shock you? This is what the Bible teaches. We have to take Jesus at face value. We have to accept what He says from His lips as recorded in the Gospels. Or else we're making up some Jesus who's not the biblical Jesus. The biblical Jesus here says that he prays for God's own people, whom God the Father has given to him. Him whom he has saved out of the world, that they are those who belong to God by faith. And he's not praying. for those who do not now and never will belong to God. Now what does he pray for us? He prays that we would be kept. Keep Keep them in your name, which you have given me. What does that mean? Keep them in your name, which you have given me. Keep them believing. Keep them trusting. This is eternal life that they come to know you And Jesus Christ whom you have sent. Well, if we continue to know God and Jesus Christ whom you have sent, if we continue to believe in God the Father and Jesus Christ. The sun. That's what it means to be kept. He said, While I was with them, I kept them in your name. Now I'm coming to you, and I want them to have joy. I want them to have the word, and I want them to know that they have eternal life. I want you to sanctify them, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. And here's what Jesus does not ask. He does not ask for God the Father to take them out of the world. We are called to be in the world, but not of the world. And this this here, Jesus' prayer for us, is where we get That idea. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. But look at verse 18, as you sent me in into the world. So I have sent them into the world. We are to be in the world but not of the world. We are sent into the world, just as God the Father sent Jesus into the world, but we do not belong to the world. We should not identify with the world. Should not think like the world, but we should speak the truth to the world, speak the truth in love to the world, just as Jesus came and spoke the truth in love. To the world. We should be in the world as Jesus was in the world, speaking the truth, demonstrating love, showing what God Is like living with the people of God as the kingdom of God. That's what we should be doing. And we should expect that the world's going to hate us for that Now that doesn't mean we should be obnoxious. You see, that's worldliness. Worldliness says, if somebody hates me, I'll hate them right back, I'll show them, I'll put them in their place. That is not the thinking of the king or the Kingdom. That's not Jesus thinking, that's worldly thinking. Jesus thinking turns the other cheek. Jesus thinking loves our enemies. Jesus thinking prays for those who persecute us. And blesses those who curse us. And so Jesus thinking is what we're called to. Now how can we have this because we are sanctified in the truth. Now what does that mean? Here's the very powerful thing. That means that we belong to Jesus. We have union with Jesus and with God the Father just as they have union. with each other. Listen to this. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. That's us. We have believed in Jesus through the word of the apostles that we've read in Scripture That's us. He's praying for us. That they may be one. Just as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they also may be in us so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one, even as we are one. I in them, and you in me That they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and love them even as you loved me. This is a profound Truth that is the very root core heart of what it means to live as a Christian because it's who we are as a Christian. We are in Christ, and Christ is in us just as Christ is in us The Father, and the Father is in Christ. There is a union with Christ by faith, by the grace of God, by the working of the Holy Spirit. And if we're all one with him, that means we are actually one with one another. You are one with everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ who knows God the Father through God the Son, with all true Christians you have an essential and unbreakable spiritual unity. And that is because you both all have unity with Christ. Do we act like it? Do we live like it? Do we live like those who belong to Christ and to one another, and not just to ourselves If that's the truth, and it is, if that's who we are, and it is, how does that flow out into our lives? Well, it should be that we love Jesus more than anything else, that we set aside our personal preferences and our personal opinions and our our personal prejudices for the sake of loving Jesus and loving his people and doing what Jesus has called me to do Called us to do that the world may know that the world may believe. You have sent me, verse 23, that the world may know that you sent me and love them even as you love me. When the world sees different people From different backgrounds and different preferences and different um orientations in life in terms of rich, poor, black, white, Hispanic, Asian educated highly, educated not so highly, blue collar, white collar, and and we have a unity We have a unity of love that is clearly and firmly rooted in our love for Christ and our belonging to Christ. It's not simply, can't we all just get along? It's a deeply rooted union in Christ that causes us to love one another. When the world sees that, that is how they will know That Jesus was sent into the world by the Father, and that we belong to him, and that he has loved us, that's how they'll know the gospel. That's how they'll know the truth. It's powerful. We need to live that. We need to pray that we would live that. Because that is how we are called to make the name of Jesus known to the nations. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, give us this strong, clear sense that at our core, our identity is not found in being an identity American or being college educated, middle class, white-collar suburbanites, or anything else that the world might label us as blue-collar you know, urban, rural, suburban, college educated, high school dropout, middle class, working class. These are all labels that the world puts on people Because the world values people according to economic contribution or status in society. That is not who we are. That is not who we are. We are children of God, we are members of the body of Christ and members of one another. We are richly blessed. We are dearly loved. We are vitally called to emission as your body. So how Help us to live it as those who believe it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for John 17 today. I do hope that you have a blessed day In the Lord.