Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It's day 898 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We're in John chapter 20, a great resurrection chapter. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and for the blessing of knowing you, of being called by your name, of being given your word and your spirit. You are so good to us, Lord. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts, that you would teach us and lead us to love Jesus more, to trust more and more in his resurrection power in all things. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, John chapter 20. Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going together toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. and stopping to look in, stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb He saw the linen cloth lying there, and the face cloth which had been on Jesus' head not lying with the linen cloth, but folded up in a place by itself Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. Then the disciples went back to their homes. But Mary stood weeping Outside the tomb. And as she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb, and she saw two angels in white Sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet, they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know that it was Jesus Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned and said to him in Aramaic, Raboni, which means teacher. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me For I have not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, I have seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her. On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked, locked, where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. Now Thomas, one of the twelve, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came So the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails and place my finger into the mark of the nails and place my hand into his side, I will never believe Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, Put your finger here, and see my hands, and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe. Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said, Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen, and yet have believed. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written so that you may believe. that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in His name. That's John chapter 20 in the ESV. Well, the resurrection of Jesus, it is the great event that changes everything Because death has been overthrown. Death has been defeated. And the gospel writers are very clear to ground the accounts of the resurrection in in real history, things that really happened, eyewitness accounts, first-hand encounters, uh tangible evidence. So that we will know that this is not a myth, this is not a hallucination, this is not wishful thinking, this is not a spiritual resurrection. The Lord Jesus Christ bodily rose again from the dead on the third day, having defeated death, he brought life and immortality to light. in his own resurrection body as the firstborn of the dead, the first fruits of the resurrection. The first witness of the resurrection, the actual eyewitness of Jesus himself, is Mary Magdalene. A woman. It's a very shocking detail in the ancient world, like shepherds being the witnesses to his birth, women are the first eyewitnesses to his resurrection. Of course, others come to see as well to corroborate that witness, but it's the kind of detail that you wouldn't really make up if you were inventing a story. You wouldn't have a woman, especially a woman with kind of a shady past. Remember Mary Magdalene had been possessed by seven demons and Had a very shady past, and yet the Lord set her free, and she became one of his closest followers. She goes there early in the morning on the first day of the week. It's right after the Sabbath She's going with other women. The other women aren't mentioned here, but we know from the other gospel accounts that she's with other women, and that they've come to finish the process. of anointing Jesus' body with the proper burial spices to take care of the body of their Lord, not expecting a resurrection, fully believing to find him dead, and trying to just take care of him his body in death. Well when she goes there, she sees that the stone is away. It's been moved. She doesn't know who's moved it. She doesn't believe in the resurrection yet. She just doesn't see the stone there. So she goes to tell Simon Peter and the other disciple. That's John, by the way, the disciple whom Jesus loved, is the author of this gospel, John. And she says not the Lord is risen, but they've taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him So Peter goes out with John. They go together toward the tomb. They run together. John is younger than Peter. So it makes sense that John outruns Peter to the tomb. But Peter is bolder than John. So it makes sense that Peter goes first into the tomb. But even though Peter goes in, sees the empty tomb, sees the cloths, sees the face cloth lying in a separate place by itself, he doesn't believe. John, however, goes in the tomb after Peter, and he looks, and he does see, and he does believe. But they don't understand. Jesus had predicted his resurrection three times. The scriptures had told, like in Isaiah, that he will see the light of life and be satisfied, and the will of God will prosper in his hands, but they weren't thinking that. Way yet. They didn't get it. But John did see, and he did believe. Mary's left behind weeping. As she's weeping, she sees two angels in the tomb. These are messengers. And very often you'll see them together because the Bible says that everything should be established by two or three witness. So these are messengers, and there's two of them, so that by two witnesses the truth of the matter can be established. She sees these angels. They say, Why are you weeping? She says, they've taken away my Lord. She still doesn't get that he's resurrected She turns around. She sees Jesus. But she doesn't know that it's Jesus. She doesn't recognize him. She says, he says to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She th she thinks that this must be the gardener This is a garden, a well-cultivated, tended place. Early in the morning, you would expect to see a gardener taking care of things, especially after the Sabbath. Getting everything back in shape and pulling any weeds or uh trimming anything that he's trimming. That's what she's thinking. This is just the gardener. Maybe it was the gardener who took away the body of Jesus. Again, we're s we should be hit by the fact that none of none of the disciples, except John, who sees and believes None of the disciples, not Peter, not Mary Magdalene and Luke, were told about two disciples who hear these accounts and they go on a road to Maeus. None of them are putting the pieces together and believing in the resurrected Christ. None of them are believing that Jesus had has defeated death because it's so unbelievable, it's so shocking, it's so unexpected, even though again, as I said, he predicted it, they still didn't get it. So she simply says to him, If you've carried him away, tell me where you've laid him and I will take him away. Again, she's just wanting to care for the body of her Lord. But then when Jesus calls her by name, Mary That's when she realizes who he is. And she says, chabonai. teacher. It's an affectionate form of teacher, my teacher, my dear teacher, and she's really showing her affection for Jesus says, Don't cling to me. I've not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending, listen to this language, I am ascending to my Father and your Father. to my God and your God. Think of how gracious the Lord is. Peter had denied him. Everyone else had abandoned him And he still says, go to my brothers and tell them I am ascending to my father and your father, to my God and your God. He's so gracious the Lord is. Doesn't treat us as our sins deserve. Doesn't hold our past failings over our head forever. He treats us with loving kindness. And so Mary Magdalene goes and announces, I have seen the Lord and tells the things that he said, but we know that largely they still did not believe her, and it wasn't until Jesus comes in uh that they that they believe. So it's evening that day. They're locked in place. They're afraid of the Jews. They're still really not believing that Jesus Jesus is resurrected, where they'd be out looking for him, they'd be out, you know, wanting to find him, wanting to talk to him. But he comes to them. You see, again, the graciousness of our Lord. They didn't go to the tomb to talk to him. They didn't do anything but stay cowering in fear. He comes to them and he says, peace Be with you. He announces to them peace. He calls them brothers. He says that God is their father, and he gives them peace. That's what Jesus Jesus, the resurrected Jesus, does for his disciples, for those who believe in him. He calls us brothers. He tells us that God is our Father as well as his Father, and He gives us peace. And not only that, but he commissioned them. Again he says, peace be with you after he shows them the verification of his resurrection by his hands and his side. He says again to them, peace be with you. with you and then he commissions them. As the Father has sent me, so I am sending you. I'm sending you out just as the Father had sent me out. Think of this privilege. If you are a disciple of Jesus, if you believe in Jesus Christ, think of this privilege. You didn't ask for Jesus to die for your sins. You didn't know him. You weren't probably even seeking him consciously, but he was seeking you out. And he calls you his brother His sister. He says, God is my father and your father. He says, peace is yours, and he says, I am sending you out into the world just as And then he gives them the Holy Spirit. Now the Holy Spirit's going to come in power at Pentecost, but here Jesus is giving them this promissory uh deposit as it were, this this this first taste of the Holy Spirit. And then this saying, if you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven. If you withhold forgiveness, it is withheld. What does that mean? Well, it means that by proclaiming the gospel to people, if they come to believe in Jesus, we can tell them. Your sins are forgiven and and they will be because they've come to believe in Jesus. But if someone rejects Jesus and walks away, we can tell them with the authority of God, you do not have your sins forgiven, because they won't be, because they don't have Jesus. So it it really has to do with preaching the gospel faithfully, which is a gospel for the forgiveness of sins. Well one apostle is not there, Tom Thomas. Thomas the twin. We don't know anything about who Thomas' twin was. We just know that he's called twin. And he doesn't believe it. They say, we've seen the Lord. He thinks maybe they made it up, maybe they hallucinated, maybe they saw a ghost, maybe it was somebody else, and they mistook him for somebody else. He doesn't buy it He doesn't buy it. The stubborn unbelief of the disciples here is proof that they really did see the Lord because they demanded evidence and they got it. He says, unless I see the marks of the nails and place my finger into the marks of the nails and I place my hand into his side, I will never believe. And eight days later, that is the next Sunday, one week later, he sees the Lord. And what does the Lord say to him? Same thing he said to the other disciples, peace be with you. It doesn't come in and say, Thomas, what is your problem, man? What is the deal? Why are you so thick-headed? He doesn't say that. He says, peace be with you. And then he invites him. He says, place your finger here. See my hands. Put out your hand. Put it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe. A gracious invitation to faith. And Thomas answers it stirringly. powerfully, my Lord and my God. This is the Jewish man. He's raised to believe that the Lord, our God, the Lord is one. And here he says to this man whom he's known for years, My Lord and my God. He's the first disciple to make this strong of a profession of faith in the full deity of Christ, my Lord and my God. And Jesus said to them, him. Have you believed because you've seen me? Blessed are those who have not yet seen and have believed. And that's the whole point of John's gospel is that we might see Jesus through the gospel, through these firsthand accounts, and that we might believe, and that believing we might have life in his name. Although we have denied him, although we have abandoned him, although we have kept our distance from him, although we have failed to keep our commitments, if we believe, we will have life in his name. That's the gospel. And we get to take that gospel message out to the world to tell them there is one who has overcome Sin and death. There is one who offers you forgiveness and eternal life. There is one who has been who no one else could be, Lord and God, in human flesh, who has done what no one else could do, defeating sin and death forever. Ever come to him and have life in his name. Let's pray. Father, you're so good, you're so faithful. You're so gracious. Lord Jesus, you're so strong. You're so victorious. You're so wonderful. Help us to trust you, to follow you, to love you, always. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for John 20. Back to the prophet Jeremiah tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.