Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our eight hundred and eighty-ninth day together in the Word of God. We come to John 18. Jesus is done teaching his disciples, he's done praying for his disciples, now he is going to go and accomplish salvation for his disciples and for us. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is powerful, living, and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. Thank you. For giving us life through your word. Please write your word on our hearts. Please show us Jesus more closely so that we can love him more deeply and follow him more faithfully by the power of your Holy Spirit, working through your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. John chapter 18. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the brook Kidron, where there was a garden, which he and his disciples entered. Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples. So Judas, having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, went there with lanterns and torches and weapons. Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, came forward and said to them, Whom do you seek? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them, I am he. Judas, who betrayed him, was standing with them. When Jesus said to them, I am he, they drew back and fell to the ground. So he asked them again, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus answered, I told you that I am he, so if you seek me, let these men go This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken, Of those whom you gave me, I have lost not one Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. So Judas, so Jesus said to Peter, Put your sword into its sheath. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? So the band of soldiers, and their captain and the officers of the Jews, arrested Jesus and bound him. First they led him to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest. That year. It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die for the people. Simon Peter followed Jesus. And so did another disciple. Since that disciple was known to the high priest, he entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest. But Peter stood outside at the door. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door and brought Peter in. The servant girl at the door said to Peter, You also are not one of the man's disciples, are you? He said, I am not. Now the servants and officers had made a charcoal fire because it was cold, and they were standing and warming themselves. Peter also was with them standing and warming himself. The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in the synagogues and in the temple, where all Jews come together. I have said nothing in secret. Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them they know what I said. When he had said these things, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, Is that how you answer the high priest? Jesus answered him, If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong. But if what I said is right, why do you strike me? Annas then sent him bound To Caiaphas, the high priest. Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself, so they said to him, You also are not one of his disciples, are you? He denied it and said, I am not One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man, whose ear Peter had cut off, said, Did I not see you in the garden with him? Peter again denied it, and at once a rooster crowed Then they led Jesus from the house of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was early morning. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters, so that they would not be defiled, but could eat the Passover. So Pilate went outside to them and said, What accusation do you You bring against this man. They answered him, If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves And judge him by your own law. The Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death. This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So Pilate entered his headquarters again. And called Jesus and said to him, Are you the King of the Jews? Jesus answered, Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about Me. Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom. Is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servant would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews, but my kingdom is not Not from the world. Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king. Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness. to the truth. Every one who is of the truth listens to my voice. Pilate said to him, What is truth? After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and told them, I find no guilt in him, but you have a custom. that I should release one man for you at the Passover. So do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? They cried out again, Not this man, but Barabbas now Barabbas. was a robber. That's John eighteen. We have to remember when we're reading John's account of the arrest and trial and crucifixion, resurrection of Jesus, that that he knows of the other three gospels. They were written years earlier. They were in pretty wide circulation throughout the church by this time. So John is in many ways filling in a lot of the details and answering a lot of the questions that may have been raised by these earlier gospel accounts of Matthew, Mark, and As far as we know, we believe Matthew, Mark, and Luke were written in the 50s A. D. , and the Gospel of John probably written as late as 90. A D. So it may have been written thirty plus years after the other gospels. We don't know that for sure. We don't really have dates attached to anything, but it does seem like Matthew Mark. Mark and Luke were written first, and then John was written much later. We do know that John was the last living apostle, that most of the other apostles were dead by the year seventy A. D. That John didn't die until the mid to late nineties A. D. So here we are, Jesus Has spoken everything. He's prayed everything. They go out to the garden. They go out to a place that he had often met with his disciples in. This is the Garden of Gethsemane. And readers would have already known that from The earlier gospels. And Judas comes with a band of soldiers. And one of the questions is: Were the soldiers really able to just come and get Jesus If Jesus didn't want to be gotten? No, they weren't. They were not able to get Jesus if Jesus did not want to be gotten. Remember in John 10, Jesus said, No one takes my life from me, but I lay It down of my own accord. And here we see the power that Jesus has. When he says, when they come to him and they say they're looking for Jesus of Nazareth, he says to them, Look at this in verse five. I am he, which is literally just I am. Who are you looking for? Jesus of Nazareth. I am. And when they say I am, when Jesus Jesus as I am, they all draw back and they fall to the ground. They are blown away literally by the power of the presence of Jesus. And so they have to get back up on their feet and step forward again, and Jesus has to ask them again the same question, whom do you seek? And they have to answer it the same way again. This makes it very clear that he is giving himself over to them, or they would not be able to take him. So Jesus says, I told you that I'm he, so if you seek me, love Let these men go. That also explains why none of his other disciples were arrested at the same time. Jesus is the one who said, Let them go. Here he is interceding on behalf of his disciples, which is what he does. So he fulfills the word that he had just spoken in prayer. Right in the previous chapter, Jesus had prayed to his father and said, Of all those you've given me, I've not lost one. The son of perdition, that scripture may be fulfilled. But here Jesus protected his own. Peter almost tries to get himself arrested, draws his sword, strikes off. The high priest servant's ear. Here we're told the name of the high priest servant Malchus, which means he's probably part of the early church, because people who are named in the Gospels are are almost always named because they are known Christians within the early church. Jesus rebukes them, tells them to put his sword back in his sheath. We know from other gospel. that he then heals his ear, but that detail is not put in here. They lead him away to Annas. Why did they why did they go to Annas's house if Caiaphas was High priest, because the law of Moses did not allow for a change of high priest year by year. Whoever was anointed as high priest was high priest for life. But the Romans didn't want a high priest for life, because a high priest for life would be such a powerful figure that they could easily raise up and leave. So Rome imposed to be a very good thing. Most of the high priests came from within his family. He's the patriarch. He's the the real high priest in the eyes of the people and of And so it's Caiaphas who had said, remember, I'm not sure if you're not sure. So here Jesus is standing before Caiaphas, who is the rightful high priest according to the law of Moses. Another question that people might have raised because they knew the story of the crucifixion is how is it that John, of all disciples, remained at the foot of the cross? And here we're told from John himself, he's just known as the other disciple or that disciple here in this passage, which is one of the ways we know that this is just John, because he's referring to himself, and he's the one that fits this description. His family, they're known to the high priest. So he would have protected them, he would have not gone after him. He's able to get in. Peter doesn't have that same level of protection. Just being a friend of the guy the high priest knows doesn't quite get you the same level of protection as being someone whom the high priest knows. And so Peter comes in and he's much more afraid, and we see he denies Christ three times. Meanwhile Well, as Peter is outside in the courtyard denying Jesus, Jesus is inside being put on trial, and he's speaking the truth. Truth is a very big and important issue in Jesus John's gospel. Peter is outside lying. And after his third denial, a rooster croak Which is exactly what Jesus had said was going to happen. Now they lead Jesus finally from the house. Of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters in the early morning. Jesus was probably at Caiaphas's house for a good part of the night. There is I've been to Caiaphas's House in Jerusalem have been downstairs. There's like a dungeon area where they would have kept prisoners. That was an old cistern that was converted into a dungeon. That's probably where Jesus was held. as he was awaiting transfer to go see Pontius Pilate, a very sobering place to go and visit, when you realize he was in the pit. He was literally in the pit, like Psalm 88 describes. and in the darkness. And that's where he was kept for several hours probably that night before it was reasonable time to go and take 'cause you don't take a prisoner to Governor Pontius Pilate at two o'clock in the morning. Right, you wait until early morning. And so they do. So they take Jesus to Pilate, and Pilate wants to No, what's the accusation? What's what are the charges? Right? What are the charges? This is an old standard procedure in justice going back here to ancient times. You have to name charges. What is the charges? They don't name charges. They just say, well, if he wasn't doing evil, we wouldn't have delivered him over to you. That's that's Pilate's first clue that this is not right what's going on Here. It's fishy business. So he says, I will take them yourselves and judge them by your own law. You basically aren't going to give me a straight answer. You're not dealing straightforwardly here. You guys are up to something. Just I don't want to have you to do it. Just go do it yourself. And then they say to him, Very key, it is not lawful for us to put any one to death. He had said that he was going to be handed over, and the Romans had removed the Sanhedrin's right to impose capital punishment and they didn't want sometimes, you know, like in the case of Stephen, they would just have sort of incite mob violence to stone someone to death. They didn't want that with Jesus. Jesus is a special case They wanted him put to death publicly, openly, and judicially in a way that would expose him as the criminal that they were accusing him of being. And so Pilate has to get involved. And he interviews Jesus. Are you the King of the Jews? And Jesus wants to know, um, where's this idea coming from? Here you are, the Roman governor. You're asking me if I'm the King of the Jews. Are you asking like from a Roman perspective? Am I challenging Rome's right to rule Jerusalem and Judah? That's the key to this. Do you say this of your own accord? Is Rome concerned that I'm going to lead a rebellion against Rome? Is that what you're worried about? And he says, no, this is a Jewish question. Pilate saying, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done? Like, Rome is not worried about Jesus. And so that's very clear in what's happening here. And so Jesus says this about his kingdom. So key here. Verse thirty-six. Christians today need to get. John nine John eighteen thirty-six. Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews, but my kingdom is not from the world. You see, in the context, Pilate is wanting to know, is Jesus a threat to Roman rule, to earthly government? Jesus had said earlier in his earthly ministry in the Gospel of Matthew render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's and to God the things that are God's when he was asked, Should we pay taxes to Rome or not? His answer was essentially yes. Go ahead and pay taxes to Rome. Rome, because the denarius with which you pay taxes is a Roman denarius. There's a there's a separation here of the kingdom of God and The kingdoms of this world, the kingdoms of men. There's a separation between what God is doing in the world and what the kingdoms of men are doing. Jesus is not a threat to Rome He says, if my kingdom was of this world, my servants would have been fighting. So we need to not make the mistake of trying to make Jesus' kingdom a kingdom of this world and not make the mistake of getting to fighting for the advancement of that kingdom Pilate says, Well, you are a king then. And Jesus says, Yes, I am a king. For this purpose I've worn I was born into the world, and for this purpose I've come into the world to bear with me. witness to the truth. What Jesus says, by the way, when Jesus says you say that I'm a king, he's basically agreeing with them. Yes, you say that I'm a king. But let me clarify what kind of king. This is my purpose. I'm the king of truth Jesus comes into the world as the king of truth, not political power. Political power has nothing to do with truth. Political power has to do with coercion Oppression. Manipulation. Jesus is the King of truth. One of the first things that happens when Christians decide we need to grab for political power Is that we start devaluing the truth. We start filtering the truth according to whether or not it matches with our political ideology, rather than whether or not it matches with the Word of God And here's a hint. If all of your truth matches a particular political ideology, then your truth in many ways doesn't match the Bible It doesn't, because you can't use a filter of political ideology and arrive at biblical truth. Jesus says, For this purpose I was born, for this purpose I've come into the world to bear witness to The truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. We must listen to the voice of Jesus. In Scripture, like we're doing here day by day. This is why we call this walking with Jesus in the Word, one chapter per day, because we're walking with Jesus. in the Word. We're listening for the voice of our Good Shepherd, who leads us in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Who is the king of the truth, and who calls us to be on the side of the truth and to be of the truth and to listen to his voice. And that's the takeaway I want to To get from today. Don't listen to the world. Don't listen to the voices of the world. Don't try to think that the kingdom of God is a kingdom. Of the world, listen to King Jesus testify to the truth and tell us his truth, the truth that we need, the truth that saves us, the truth that is the knowledge of God, which is eternal life. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for our King, the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you for his kingdom, which is not a kingdom of the world. Build us up in Christ. Lead us in the truth for the glory of your name. In Jesus' name we pray Amen. Well, that's John 18. Thanks for joining me for that. Tomorrow we're going back to Jeremiah the prophet. Have a blessed day in the Lord.