Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemel from Forest Hill Presbytery. Church. It is our 868th day together in the Word of God, and we come today to John chapter 13. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, which is so wonderful, rich, and full. Thank you for your grace, which is abundant and freely poured out into our lives because of Jesus Christ your Son. Son, our Savior. Thank you for this time that we can have together. Please bless our time and build us up in Christ. We pray in His name. Amen. John 13. Now before the Feast of Passover. When Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of the world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. And During suffer when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot Simon's son to betray him, Jesus Knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied it around his waist. Then he poured water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand. Peter said to him, You will never wash my feet. Jesus answered, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus said to him, The one who has bathed does not need to wash, except for his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not every one of you. For he knew who was to betray him. That was why he said, Not all of you are clean. When he had washed their feet, and put on his outer garments, and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I have done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you also should do as I have done to you. Truly, truly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them I am not speaking of all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but the scripture will be fulfilled. He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me I am telling you this now, before it takes place, that when it does place take place, you may believe that I am He. Truly, truly, I say to you, Whoever receives the one I send receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me. After saying these things, Jesus was troubled in his spirit and testified, Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me. The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke. One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining at table at Jesus' side. So Simon Peter Motioned to him to ask Jesus of whom he was speaking. So that disciple, leaning back against Jesus, said to him, Lord, who is it? Jesus answered, It is he to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have dipped it. So he dipped the morsel, gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot Then after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus said to him, What you are going to do, do quickly. No one saw what sorry. Now no one at the table knew why he had said this to him. Some thought that because Jesus Judas had the money bag, Jesus was telling him, Buy what we need for the feast or that he should give something to the poor. So after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out, and it was night. When he had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him God will also glorify him in himself and glorify him at once. Little children, just a little while, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, so now I also say to you, where I am going, you cannot come A new commandment I give to you that you love one another, just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love. Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me Me? Truly, truly, I tell you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. Times. That is John thirteen in the ESV. And what a moving scene. This powerful scene after dinner when Jesus washes the disciples' feet and And uh tells of Judas' betrayal and then tells Peter of his upcoming denials. I love verse one of John 13. It gives us the state of mind of Jesus that we understand that He knows exactly what's happening. He is fully in command of everything that is happening. It was right before the feast of the Passover. They had had the meal together. The Passover And Jesus knew he knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father. And he had loved his own who were in the world, and he loved them to the end. At this supper, Jesus broke bread and had distributed it to his disciples. He had instituted the Lord's Supper. That's recorded for us in Matthew, Mark, and Luke John, being the last gospel written, doesn't repeat the institution of the Lord's Supper, but he tells us rather of what happened after supper, and that is the washing of the feet feet. And so uh, or actually during supper we're told he he he washes the disciples' feet. Now Luke gives us some background on this in that the disciples had been arguing about which of them was the greatest. I also think it's interesting to note that none of the disciples really knew for sure that Judas Iscariot was the one who was going to be able to do that. Betray Jesus. But Jesus broke bread with Judas. He handed him the bread when he said, This is my body. He handed him the wine when he said, This is my body. I think that shows us again that from the very beginning, the Lord for his own reasons has willed, has purposed, has ordained. of Jesus. There's a perspective out there on the church that says that the church should only be consistent of regenerate members, of redeemed members. That is not actually the biblical standard because that is actually an impossible standard. The standard biblically is those who make a credible profession of faith And their children are non-communicate members, and then when their children make a uh credible profession of faith, they're admitted to the Lord's table. So a credible profession of faith is not the same thing as is saying that you are regenerate or you are definitely redeemed. Judas Iscariot at this point in time had a credible professional Everything that everybody else was saying, he seemed to do all the same things that everybody else was doing. He seemed to be as credible, externally, from a human perspective, as credible as a disciple of Jesus as anyone else And so that's something important for us to keep in mind. We cannot set a different standard for church membership than what the Lord Jesus Himself has set, and here is his original church. and it includes someone he knows will betray him, he knows is not regenerate. Well Jesus r rises from supper and he lays aside his outer garments, he takes a towel, he ties it around his waist. He's taking the status the stance of the lowest of household slaves, removing all dignity. This should remind us of when Jesus came from heaven to earth, He set aside his royal dignity He set aside his divine privileges and he took the most humble position of being born as an infant and wrapped in swaddling cloths and laid And he's taking the position of the leader of lowest slave. And that's why Peter is so confused. Simon Peter here, as so often, right, what were people in the South Say about Simon Peter here, oh bless his heart, right? Bless his heart because he means well. The boy means well, right? He just doesn't understand. And it's easy enough to sort of look down on Peter, but really all of the disciples should have been completely shocked. And maybe they all were, and Simon Peter was just the only one willing to speak up and say anything about it. That was often the case. is that all of them, all twelve, would be thinking something, but Simon's the one who puts it into words. Do you wash my feet? You shall never wash my feet. Jesus can't take the position of the lowest slave for his disciple Well, he's going to take an even lower position. He's going to take the position of an executed criminal for his disciples. That's lower, far lower, than the position of the lowest households. slave. And he does so in order to cleanse us from sin, just as he does so here in order to wash the feet of his disciples. Once Jesus says, if I don't wash you, you have no share in me. Peter's eager. He says, Don't only wash my feet, but wash my hands, wash my head. In other words, Jesus, I want every part of me to share with you. And Jesus says, The one who's bathed is already clean, and you are clean, but not every one of you. Not every one of them was regenerate, not every one of them was justified, not every one of them was clean. He knew who would betray him. That's why he said, Not all of you are clean. And yet he still served in the sacraments and still washed his feet. That is remarkable. So he returns to his place and he gives us a lesson. And that is he, the Lord and teacher, he, the head of this group, he, the leader, the master Took the place of service. He served. And so we are called to serve. Serve. Some churches, some church traditions take this very literally and say we're gonna wash one another's feet and they have foot washing ceremonies. I don't think foot washing has the same significance for us as it did. In the ancient world. Number one, we don't eat lying down. They ate lying down in ancient Israel, which means the feet were at table level, right? And we also don't wear sandals and walk in the dirt with animal waste around. Right? Our feet are kept inside socks and shoes, they're relatively clean, and we have them tucked neatly up. So it doesn't have the same significance. What is more significant than having a foot washing ceremony is for the leadership in a church to take the position of saying, My life is not my own. It belongs to Jesus and to his people. I will serve Jesus and I will serve his people. I will give myself In service to my Lord and to his flock, I will serve others rather than myself. That is the way we really fulfill this. And when the leadership is setting that example, everyone in the church should follow suit and should say, Yes, Lord, I give myself to you, and I give my myself to your people freely and unreservedly. Now Jesus clearly identifies One of you will betray me. He's already said not all of you are clean. Now he goes one step further and says, One of you will betray me. And again, look at verse 22. The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke. They didn't know who it was So Simon Peter's kind of like motioning to John, hey, you know, find out who he's talking about. What's what what and so John asks him, Lord who is it? This is a a private conversation between just a few people, so most of the disciples didn't hear this Otherwise they probably would have jumped up and tried to stop Simon, or uh Judas, rather. And so he says, It's the one I'm gonna dip this morsel uh in the hand it to and so he does. And when he does that, Satan had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot to betray Jesus, but now Satan enters into Judah And Jesus says, What you are going to do, do quickly. Because Judas betraying Jesus is part of the sovereign plan of how it is. Jesus will end up laying down his life for our sins. Jesus already said very clearly in John chapter 10, no one takes his life from him. He lays it down. He has authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again. But Judas is Betrayal is part of that plan. Now here's how we can understand where got where evil plays a hand in the sovereignty of God. Silver? Absolutely not. It was satanic. Satan put the thought into his mind and heart. Satan entered into him. It was evil. This was an evil act of betrayal of the man who had loved Simon. Who had loved Judas Iscariot, keep calling Simon this, who had loved Judas Iscariot so much. And it was evil, but it was all part of God's plan. Does God plan for evil? Yes. Did Jesus make Judas Iscariot do it by handing him the bread? Some people read this that way. No, nonsense. Absolutely not. No way, but it is all part. Jesus knew it was coming. He knew when it was coming. He knew who was going to bring it about, and he ordained that it would all be part of how he would end up doing something which is a far greater good Right? In many ways, look, the death of Jesus on the cross is the most evil thing that's ever happened in the history of the world. Why do bad things happen to good people? Really, Jesus is the only truly good person who ever walked the earth sinless, perfect, holy, blameless, loving, generous, kind. And they crucified him openly, in shame and horror. Horrible thing happened to the best of persons And it was God's will because through that we were saved. All of God's people, a countless multitude. From every tribe, tongue, people, and nation were redeemed. A far greater good comes out of a dark and sinister evil. And God still works that way today in smaller ways through things that happen in our lives that are sinister, evil, twisted, unfair, not right. And yet they're part of God's plan to bring about a greater good. We don't always know what the greater good is, but we can know that God always has a greater good in mind. So now, Judas has left, and Jesus turns to the rest of the disciples, the ones who are not betraying him, and says, Now is the Son of Man glorified. God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and will glorify him at once. Just a little while longer, I'm with you. You'll seek me, you'll not find me. But Peter says, Where are you going? And he says, Where I'm going, you can't follow me now, but you will follow me afterward. That's good news. Where Jesus is gone, which is to the Father's side, where Jesus has gone into heaven, we follow him afterward. Now Peter, again, bless his heart. Peter wants to follow Jesus wherever he goes. Stick right close to him. I'll lay down my life for you. And he was willing to. He says, I'll lay down my life for you. And he's willing to, as long as he could draw his sword and go down swinging. But Jesus said, No, put away your sword. And Peter's like, I don't know. Then he denies Jesus. We'll get to that in due time. Our wonderful Savior, our loving, merciful Savior He feeds us with himself. He cleanses us with himself. He brings us home to himself. How could we not love him? And follow him. Let's pray. Father, thank you for such a savior. Thank you for such a great salvation. Thank you for such amazing grace. We praise you. Help us to follow you, Lord, day by day. Help us to walk with you by faith. Help us to imitate you in our lives by your grace and for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is John 13. Tomorrow we're going to go back to the book of Jeremiah. I hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.