Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forestville Presbyterian Church. It is our 877th day together in the Word of God. I've got some delicious coffee in my favorite coffee cup. We are in John 15, great chapter in the Bible. One of the earliest sections of Scripture that I remember memorizing and meditating on in a very deliberate way when I was in high school. John 15, verses 1 to 5. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into this chapter together today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. For your word that is living and active. Thank you so much for your faithfulness to us. As we gather together to meet with you and to look into your word day by day, you are faithful. Please come again today by your Holy Spirit and write John 15 in our hearts that we might draw close to Christ and abide in him and that he might bear fruit in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. All right, John 15. I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes that it may bear more fruit Already you are clean, because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in I am the vine, you are the branches, whoever abides in me, and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me, you can do nothing Nothing. If any one does not abide in me, he is thrown away like a branch and withers, and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love, these things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be full This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone laid down his life for him. His friends, you are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends For all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you, and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide. So that whatever you ask the Father in my name, He may give it to you. These things I command you, so that you will love one another If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own, but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you, a servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin. Whoever hates me hates my father also If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin. But now they have seen and hated both me and my father. But the word that is written in their law must be fulfilled. They hated me without a cause. But when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of Truth who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me. And you also will bear witness, because you have been with me From the beginning. That is John fifteen in the ESV, the great passage Just a wonderful teaching. This is again the Lord Jesus, he's with his disciples on the last night that he's going to be with them. He's about to be betrayed. He's in he's actually being betrayed, even as he gives this teaching. He is actively being betrayed by Judas Iscariot, who is selling him for thirty pieces of silver. The soldiers are on their way Probably when Jesus gives this teaching, they're walking from the upper room to the Garden of Gethsemane. That's how I picture it because In the Garden of Gethsemane, there would have been vines of uh olive trees. Um there would have been olive trees, but also along the slope there would have been vines. uh of wine, probably grapes. Um and so there would have been uh an agricultural scene before them. of the growing of grapes and olives, the bearing of fruit, of trees with branches and vines. And so Jesus is using what's in the environment to teach them. them. They would have all been familiar with the growing of both olives and grapes because both were grown in abundance in that area, and the making of both olive oil and wine, two of the major produce products of that area. area. Both involved growing fruit. Both involved a a pruning process that could be very violent. Could look like you're you're destroying the tree or destroying the vine by cutting the branches. And the more fruitful a branch is, you you you want to do more and more pruning to make sure it bears more fruit. But then there are some useless branches that you have to cut off and throw away. There are branches that just won't bear fruit, and all they're doing is putting out leaf with no fruit, or maybe they're not putting out anything at all, and you cut them off and you throw them away to be burned. And both kinds The fruitful vine branch and the barren one both involve being cut. So there's pain in both. But the cutting of being discarded for being fruitless And the cutting of pruning are done with a different purpose in mind. It's a different kind of cutting, although it's the same action. The branches, they don't bear any fruit on their own. They have to draw the life that comes from the tree or from the vine. They have to draw the life that comes from the main. source. They can't just bear fruit on their own. And so Jesus uses this metaphor, this extended metaphor to tell us. that we have to abide in him. We have to remain in him. We have to trust in him. We have to cling to him, even as he has grafted us into himself by the power of the Holy Spirit. You see, the difference really between those vines that bear fruit and those vines that don't bear fruit is the vines that bear fruit really are connected. And the ones that don't bear fruit are not connected. Those branches, the barren branches, they look like they're connected, but they don't really have a vital connection to the true vine. They're just hanging out in the vicinity without really having that vital connection. That vital connection is saving faith, and it is worked in our hearts by the Holy Spirit So you can be in church, you can call yourself a Christian, you can look like the other Christians, but if you don't have a vital living connection with the true vine, Jesus said, I am the true vine If you don't have a living vital connection with him by faith, wrought in your heart by the Holy Spirit, you're trusting in him and not in yourself, you're not going to bear fruit And ultimately, you're not really a Christian. You're a nominal Christian, a Christian in a name only, an externally appearing Christian, but not an internally abiding Christian. And there's a big difference between the two. As we abide in Christ, as Christ abides in us, as his word abides in us, we grow to be more like him. We're drawing on his life We're drawing on his righteousness, we're drawing on his peace, and we're growing to be more like him. And that's the fruit that gets born in our lives. It's Christ-likeness. It's the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience. It's spiritual fruit of seeing others come to know Christ, others growing in Christ, as we're nourishing them Because of Christ in us. Doesn't come from us, it comes from Christ in us. When we're in that abiding place, we can ask, and Jesus will answer. You see in verse 7 he says, If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. Some people have taken this verse and yanked it out of context. and have made it sound like, well, if you b are really a Christian and you really have faith, which they're defining as believing that that thing you want will be given to you. That's not biblical faith, that is wishful thinking. So let's say they say if you if you really trust in Jesus for a new car and you you you claim it then he'll give it to you that is not what he's talking about at all. Like at all. That's not what He's talking about the fruitfulness that every true believer longs for in their lives. They long, we long to be more like Jesus. We long to grow in this We long to have a spiritual influence on those in our lives. We long to be more like Jesus. He says, that is what you will ask for, and that is what I will give you. You're a branch-bearing fruit. Fruit, abide in me and I in you, and the Father will be glorified as you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples. God is glorified, and we are blessed when we are fruitful What's one main way that we will know that we are being fruitful? Well he tells us this in verse 12. This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love is no one than this that someone laid down His life for his friends. One way that we will know that we are fruitful is if we are loving one another as Jesus has loved us, if we're laying down our lives for one another as Christ has laid down his life for us for us. Now does that mean we're literally dying for someone? No, it means that we're going to be in ke willing to be inconvenienced, willing to be put out, willing to spend and be spent for the good of our brothers and sisters in Christ. Christ. That's Christ-likeness, that's the call. And if we get that. Then we're no longer just servants of Jesus. We're friends of Jesus because we're doing the things that Jesus did. We're growing in Christ's likeness. And He's telling us what the Father is all about. Love one another. Spread the nourishment of the gospel. Be a good steward of God's grace in its manifold forms, as Peter would say in 1 Peter 4. Bear fruit. In all this we have the joyful confidence of knowing, verse 16, that we did not choose Jesus But he chose us and appointed us that we should go and bear fruit. That gives us a joyful confidence because we know it's not our fickle, finicky, unreliable, self-free will that made all this happen. It's the sovereign, determined, loving purpose of King Jesus that made all this happen. He chose us to be his disciples. The Holy Spirit engrafted us into the vine. His life flows through us by grace. We bear fruit by grace and for his glory. That gives us a joyful and humble confidence. How can you have humble confidence? Not in yourself Only if you are relying on another, relying on one who's been gracious to you. And so we are to bear fruit. And again, as we're bearing fruit, we ask the Father in the name of Jesus, and he gives to us, what does he give to us? The fruit that we desire to bear? Christ's likeness and spiritual influence. These things Jesus says, he commands us so that we will love one another. And then he wants to be very clear. He's talking a lot about love, but now he has to say a word about hatred. Because some people think that if you look more like Jesus and you're more loving, then everyone's going to like you. Because who wouldn't like Jesus? The most loving person who ever lived. Well, I'll tell you who wouldn't like Jesus? The world. The powers that rule the world. Rome didn't like Jesus. The Jewish leadership didn't like Jesus. The world doesn't like Jesus They would like to use Jesus, manipulate Jesus, squeeze Jesus into their mold so that he becomes what they want him to be. You know, let's make the radical hippie Jesus, let's make the communist Jesus, let's make the Manly man, you know, Jesus. Let's make the tender-hearted uh whatever. It's not the Jesus of Bible, it's not Jesus of history, it's not the real Jesus. Everybody wants to co-opt Jesus, but the world does not love Jesus. And the world does not really love those who are growing in looking more and more like Jesus. The world doesn't love us. And so we don't need to be okay with that. We need to say, okay, I will continue to love the people of God and my neighbors even when I'm hated. Isn't that what Jesus did? I mean, he could say from the cross to the Roman soldiers who were crucifying him, he could pray and say to his father, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they're due. He could restore Peter, who denied him. He reached out in love, even when he was hated. Though reviled, he did not revile in return. And so we should be that same way. We're not greater than our master. We will not be loved and applauded by the world. How do we do this? How in the world can we have Christ-likeness and a positive spiritual influence and even take the hatred from the world and return love for it? Only one way. Only one way. And that is by the indwelling power of the Holy Spirit. It cannot come from us. You and I don't have it in us to be Jesus. or Jesus-like. Now we're never going to be Jesus. But Christ-likeness, humility, love, patience, spiritual fruitfulness, that cannot come from us. There's nothing in us by nature that would produce that, but the Holy Spirit. You see, the helper, the spirit of truth. He bears witness. He leads us in the truth. And he empowers us to bear fruit by making that vital connection to Jesus. by grace. So, abide in Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit, trusting in him and not in yourself And bear fruit. Grow in Christ's likeness by the grace of God, to the glory of God, and to your own good and the good of all of God's people that He's put in your life. Let's pray. Father, you're good. And in your goodness, you've given us a wonderful Savior, our Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you for him. Thank you for his love for us when we didn't deserve it. Help us to walk in that love toward the world that doesn't like us and will not celebrate us. But help us to show love, speak truth, walk in faithfulness, and bear fruit for your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for John 15. Tomorrow we're going to be back in the book of Jeremiah. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.