Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you for our 865th day together in the Word of God. And we are in John chapter 12. John 12 as we continue through this fourth gospel is wonderful. Gospel and uh let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word in all of its parts, and thank you for the gospel of John and what we've been learning and how we've been seeing Jesus throughout this wonderful gospel. We pray that you would write John twelve on our hearts today, that you would help us to see Christ more clearly and to love him and to follow him and to trust in him more and more. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Hmm. Got some good coffee going this morning. John 12, six days before the Passover. And Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at table. Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But Judas the Scariot, one of his disciples, he who was about to betray him, said Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred deneri and given to the poor? He said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. And having charge of the money bag he used to help himself to what was put into it. Jesus said, Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came not only on account of him, but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well, because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus. The next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. So they took branches of palm trees And went out to meet him, and crying out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. And Jesus found a young donkey. And sat on it just as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. His disciples did not understand these things at first. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him, and had been done to him. The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead, continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard that he had done this sign. So the Pharisees said to one another, See that you are gaining nothing. Look, the whole world has gone after him. Now, among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethseda and Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus, and Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If any one serves me, he must follow me, and where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name Then a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, An angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So the crowd answered him, We have heard from the law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? So Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him. So that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Therefore they could not believe For again Isaiah said, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them. Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him. Nevertheless, many even of the authorities believed in him But for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue, for they love the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day, for I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say therefore, I say, as the Father has told me That is John chapter 12, a key chapter in this wonderful gospel, and so much to see. Let's settle in and spend about three and a half hours fully unpacking this whole thing. We don't have time for that. So we'll try to touch on the important things I did preach through the Gospel of John, and so you can look up sermons from this chapter if you want more teaching than we have time for this morning. First of all, this comes right after the resurrection of Lazarus from the dead, the raising of Lazarus from the dead, and Jesus is at dinner. He is at Bethany. He is back in the house of Mary and Martha and Lazarus, and Lazarus is reclining with him at table. This man who had been four days dead in the tomb, is now in his own home, at his own table, welcoming Jesus and eating at the table with him. And Martha is of course serving, and Mary is of course worshiping. Right? This is what we see, right? Martha serving Mary worshipping. She takes a pound of expensive ointment of pure nard. That's worth all about a year's wages for a working laborer, for a day laborer. It's worth about a year's wages. That's what 300 denarii is. And we see this beautiful picture of worship, and then we see Judas Iscariot complaining that it should have been sold and the money given to the poor. Apparently Judas considered himself among the poor that should be given this money because he was really a thief who would help himself out of what was in the money bag. And this is a reminder to us. That from the very beginning, the Church of Jesus Christ has always been a mixed flock There have always been sheep and there's always been wolves in sheep's clothing. There's always been wheat and there's always been tares among the wheat. That's the way God has intended for it to be for his own reasons Judas was chosen as one of the twelve. Jesus knew his heart. Jesus made it very clear back in chapter six that he was a devil Jesus put him in charge of the money bag, knowing that he was stealing from it. You can't hide anything from Jesus. So today we can be very distressed by what we see in the church. False teachers. extortionists and greedy thieves. And it should distress us because it's wrong, just like Judas Iscariot was wrong when he did this, but it doesn't mean that the church is a failure of a project, that we should abandon the church, or that we should do away with organized religion, right? That's this church has always been this way from the very beginning. It does mean that we cannot identify the church fully with the redeemed so that if you're a member of the church you are redeemed because it's not that way. There are people who are in the church who are unbelievers and who need the gospel and there are people in the church who are false Believers and false prophets and false teachers, and that's the way it is. We have to be very honest and clear about that. Now, this next paragraph is just absurd. Absurd. The Jewish people. Are largely following after Jesus. Huge crowds of them are saying, man, this guy raised Jesus from the raised Lazarus from the dead. Let's go see Lazarus. But the Jewish leadership The leadership, the chief priests, the Sanhedrin, the power brokers. The Jewish leadership is planning. To not only put Jesus to death when they can get an opportunity, and Lazarus is going to provide, I mean Judas Iscariot is going to provide them with that opportunity, but also they want to put Lazarus to death as well. And that is not rational behavior. That doesn't make any sense. This guy is a miracle. They should be giving glory to God. They should be honoring Jesus. as the instrument of God's resurrection power. But no. They not only want to put Jesus to death, but they want to put Lazarus to death as well. And why? Well they already said it in the last chapter that we were in a few days ago. He he's a threat If they cause too much of an uproar, if Lazarus and Jesus cause too much of an uproar among the Jewish people, Rome will come and take away both our place and our nation. They want their political power, they want their prestige, they want their profit, they want their Pride. They care about those things, and those things are more important to them than God, so they are in fact idol worshippers Now Jesus comes riding into Jerusalem. Palm Sunday, the triumphal entry Jesus comes in fulfillment of Scripture, as it is written in Zechariah 9. 9. Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. Everything is happening according to Scripture. Jesus not only does miraculous things, he not only allows those miraculous things to be publicly witnessed. He not only allows these people to see the clear evidence, but he does everything according to Scripture so that the word of Scripture will be confirmed. We were talking about this this past Sunday in Sunday school of why we can trust the New Testament And this is part of it. Like we have eyewitness testimony, we have the confirmation of multiple eyewitness testimonies, but we also have the Old Testament scriptures, the prophecies fulfilled. And here it is. Here it is. And the crowd comes out to see him and to praise him, in part because of great miracles that they heard, but also in part because he had raised Lazarus from the dead. So John is actually explaining to us something that's in the other three Gospels, which is this huge crowd comes to meet Jesus in Jerusalem. He's giving us part of the reason why. And that is that it happens shortly after the raising of Lazarus, and so people are wanting to see this man who raised this man who was in the tomb four days, and there were dozens of eyewitnesses to that miracle. The Pharisees can't stand it. You see you're gaining nothing. They've been trying. The Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Sanhedrin, the chief priests, all the political leadership within Israel. All of the Jewish religious leadership has been trying to stop Jesus, but they're getting nowhere. The world has gone after him. And in that little hint, the world has gone after him, we have Greeks who show up. Because one of the major themes of the Gospel of John is that Jesus came to his own but for the world. In John chapter 1, we're told that he came unto his own, and his own peoples did not recognize him. But in John 3 we're told, For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son. So Jesus came to his own people. His own people did not recognize him or receive him or honor him. They rejected him But he came to his own people for the sake of the world, for love of the world. And here come these Greeks. And these Greeks want to see Jesus. They go up to Philip. And Philip was probably a Greek speaker. He's from Betheda and Galilee, which is a heavily Greek-influenced area. And so Andrew and Philip, who are two guys who are probably the most the most Greek among the disciples of Jesus, who are all Jewish men, but Andrew and Philip we have reason to believe because of where they're from and because of their names Andrew is a very Greek name. It's the Greek word for masculine or man or m manly. And so Philip also a very Greek name. And where they're from, in Galilee is a more Greek area. So they go to Jesus. And Jesus says, the hour has come. For the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit Jesus is talking about himself. He's going to fall into the earth and die. He's going to be dead and buried, and he's going to bear much fruit. But he's also calling us to follow after him. If we love our lives in this world If we are desperately clinging to our lives in this world, we will die alone. We will not bear much spiritual fruit. But to the extent that we lay aside our lives, we lay aside our privileges. And we embrace Jesus in the way of the cross, if dying to self for the sake of the glory of God and the good of others, we will bear much fruit. If anyone serves Jesus, we must follow Jesus, and where Jesus is, there we will be also Following Jesus, believing in Jesus, trusting Jesus is more than just saying, I am a Christian and I believe that Jesus is the Son of God. It means living as Jesus calls us to live. the life of love that he himself loved. Now of course we don't do that perfectly. We fall short in so many ways, but that is the call. That is the call. When Jesus bids a man to come and follow me, he bids a man to come and die. That's the call. Now, Jesus is praying because he's thinking about the reality of this grain of wheat falling into the ground. and dying. And he's beginning to understand the weight of what that means. He's going to be made sin for us. He's going to bear all of our sins in his body on the tree. And so he prays. My soul is troubled. What shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. When things are hard for us And we're following Jesus faithfully, and that's making it even harder for us. We should pray like Jesus prayed here in John 12. 27. What shall I say? Save me from this hour? Save me from this persecution? Save me from this difficult conversation? Save me from this burden that I feel in prayer that weighs on me. Save me from this hardship that you've called me to endure. No. Rather, Father, glorify your name. Father, be glorified in my life through this hour. Be glorified in my life through this ministry. Be glorified in my life th Through this testimony The crowd hears the father respond, although they can't understand what the father's response is. The Father's response is, I have glorified it and I will glorify it again. And the crowd hears this and they think, is that thundering? Is an angel speaking to him? And so Jesus addresses them and said, This voice that you heard Although you couldn't understand it, the voice that you heard has come for your sake and not for mine. And let me tell you, now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. Satan was defeated at the cross. Colossians 2 tells us that Jesus put Satan and the princes and palities and the powers of this world, he put them to open shame, triumphing over them in the cross. He triumphed in the cross Satan was kicked out of heaven. He fell from heaven to earth. He lost his place of access before God that we see, for example, in the book of Job. He loses his accusation against the brethren. He's known as the accuser of the brethren and the adversary. And he loses all ground of accusation because our sins are washed away forever. Satan can't bring any accusation against you before God because you are forgiven if you belong to Jesus. All of your sins are washed away. Satan has no standing against you in the court. You are not guilty. You are justified. You are forgiven forever if you belong to Jesus. Jesus says, I when I am lifted up from the earth will draw all people to myself. And he's talking about the cross. And they all know that he's talking about the cross. And so they ask him, wait a minute, how is this you'll be lifted up to die? The Son of Man is supposed to stay forever. Who's the Son of Man? And Jesus says, the light is on you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light. Don't let darkness overtake you. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light. If you are hesitant, If you are on the fence, if you're not sure about whether or not you will follow Jesus, Hear Jesus calling you personally in this passage, while you have light, walk in the light While you can see that Jesus is the Son of God, that he died and rose again for your sins, that he is The light of the world. Walk in that light. Walk means go, means follow, means do, means live in the light. As a child of God. Don't hesitate. Don't hold back. Don't make excuses. Don't stay on the sidelines. Follow Jesus. Follow Jesus. And you might say, Well, if only I had seen him, if only I saw the miracles that he did. Well, first thirty-seven tells us even though he did so many signs before so many people, most people still did not believe in him. Because it's not a matter of seeing. that we might believe. It's a matter of believing in the word that we might see. Isaiah gave the word Jesus fulfilled the Word. Do you believe the Word? And if you believe, are you living the Word? Let's skip down to the last part of this passage. Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me, and whoever sees me, sees him send me. And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. I've come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. It's light or it's darkness. It's judgment or it's salvation. It's receiving Jesus and walking in the light he gives, or it's rejecting Jesus and remaining in the darkness. Jesus demonstrated who he was. He spoke with the authority of God the Father. He did the works that were given him to do by God the Father. And he calls you to believe Will you believe? Will you tell others about this one who is the light of the world that they might believe? Will they reject you? Sure. Most people rejected Jesus. But he still spoke the truth and he still lived on his life for the sake of those who would come to believe. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are so good, and you're so right, and you're so kind, and you're so just and you're so holy, and you're so absolute. Help us to see, Lord Jesus, that you are the light of the world, that there is no light apart from you, that you are the Savior of the world, there is no salvation apart from you. But you are the hope. There is no hope apart from you. That we might believe, that we might live, that we might testify. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for John chapter 12. Tomorrow we're going to start a new book, Jeremiah. We're going to be starting the prophet Jeremiah tomorrow. We're going to be in Jeremiah for a long time because it's a long book. So I hope you'll join me for it. It's probably a book of the Bible you don't know super well. And so we'll be exploring it together in the coming weeks and months. I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.