Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel, and it is good to be with you as we are in day 901 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. And we're back to the Gospel of John for the closing chapter of the Gospel of John, one of my favorite chapters in Scripture, especially the encounter between Jesus and Peter here in this chapter. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your grace, the grace that meets us, that seeks us, that draws us, that redeems us. Thank you for Jesus, our gracious King and Savior. Help us to see Jesus more clearly and to respond to His grace with gratitude and obedience and joy and worship. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right, John 21. After this, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberius And he revealed himself in this way. Simon Peter, Thomas called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. They said to him, We will go with you. They went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore, yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to them, Children, do you have any fish? They answered him, No. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul it in because of the quantity of fish That disciple, whom Jesus loved, therefore, said to Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea. The other disciples came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from the land, but about a hundred yards off When they got out on land, they saw a charcoal fire in place, with fish laid out on it, and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of large fish, one hundred fifty three of them And although there were so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish, this was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he had said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted. But when you are old you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you, and carry carry you where you do not want to go. This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God And after saying this, he said to him, Follow me. Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them, the one who also had leaned back against him during the supper and had said, Lord, who is it that is going to betray you? When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man? Jesus said to him, If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me. So the saying spread among the brothers that this disciple was not to die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he was not to die, but if it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? This is the disciple who is bearing witness about these things and who has written these things, and we know that his testimony is true Now, there are also many other things that Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books that were written. That's John 21. This is a very, very significant chapter. Only John's Gospel records it From the language here in this chapter, it seems evident that Peter has already died, that he has been martyred. Church tradition, which is pretty reliable, tells us that Peter was crucified upside down under Emperor Nero in the persecutions of the Christians under Nero in the late 60s. A. D. So from the time of this conversation taking place, it would be, you know, 35 to 40 years before Peter is going to be martyred. But John lives on after that. John is the youngest of the disciples. Maybe Peter is in his 20s, mid to late 20s, perhaps. He's probably one of the older of the disciples. He seems to be Andrew's older brother, and he's a fisherman. He's actively working uh in the family business as a fisherman. John is the youngest of the disciples, James and John, the younger brother of James, the sons of Zebedee. probably a teenager at this time. Again, we don't know their ages for sure, but it seems pretty clear from this chapter that Peter has already died. And that John is still alive, obviously he's writing the gospel. And we know that John was the last of the apostles to live, the last living apostle. And there was a rumor that maybe he wasn't going to die. Maybe he was going to be left until Jesus came again. And it seems to be that John is getting older in life, and it seems to be fairly obvious that he's going to die, so this would put a fairly late date. on the Gospel of John sometime perhaps in the early nineties A. D. , so maybe some twenty-five years after Peter has been martyred. And a few years before John will die, he will die in exile on the island of Patmos, where he writes Revelation later, several years after the gospel. But this really is focused on the restoration of Peter to the place of ministry. They've seen the Lord. They know that he's resurrected. And they don't know what to do though. The the Passover time is over. So remember Passover begins uh uh uh the seven days after Passover, which is the Feast of Unleavened Bread. So you have Passover Day, which is most likely the day that Jesus died was on Passover Day, and then you have the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is seven days after that day. And so after that, of course, the disciples, they don't live in Jerusalem, so it makes sense that they would go home. In fact, they were told that Jesus would appear to them in Galilee, and so they go home, probably right after the appearance to Thomas, the eighth, on the eighth day. Which probably they left maybe the day or two after that. Anyway, they're back home. They're at the Sea of Tiberias, they're at Galilee, and Peter says, I am going fishing. And this is not a light throwaway comment. It's not like, hey, nothing to do this afternoon, let's go fishing. Fishing was Peter's business. And when Peter was called to follow Jesus, Jesus had told him from now on I will make you a fisher of men. In other words, from now on you will catch people for the kingdom of God. But he says, I'm going fishing. I'm going back to the life I knew before. And they all said to him, the other six who were there, We will go with you. And they go out into the boat, and they fish all night, and they catch nothing. Hmm. Things are not going so well. And then they see Jesus on the shore in the morning as the day is breaking and they're coming in to finish with their fishing. Remember that this was exactly the scene when Peter was called. He had fished all night, he had caught nothing, he came in. Now Jesus used his boat to teach for a couple of hours, and then he sent them back out to catch Here they don't even recognize that it is Jesus until he says to them, Do you have any fish? And they say no, and he says, Cast the net on the right side of the boat and you'll find someone. and they find a great quantity of fish, and all of a sudden the flashback to three years prior, this has got to be the Lord. It is the Lord. And Simon Peter is so excited, he puts on his outer garment, throws himself into the sea, and he comes in ahead of the boats. That's pretty good swimming to come in ahead of the boats, um, because boats move much more quickly through water than people, especially clothed people. But they get there and Jesus already has a fire prepared. He already has food for them. Jesus doesn't need the food that they're bringing. He already has fish laid out and bread. But he says, bring some of the fish you have just caught. This is this one verse, verse 9 and ten, these two verses, are such a a picture of the Christian life. Like Jesus doesn't need anything from us. He ha already has everything. He has prepared what we need. And yet he asks us to contribute what we have. to the work that he is doing. Not because he needs it, but because we need to contribute and to be part of the process. Bring the fish. They've caught 153 fish. Lots of commentators have spent a lot of time trying to come up with a symbolic significance for 153. Normally in the Gospel of John, numbers do have great significance. Some have suggested this is the number of known nations that the disciples would have known, oh yeah, there's 153 nations or people groups. There's no real evidence to support that. It's most likely that this is the number of fish they caught, which is a lot. A hundred and fifty-three fish is a lot of fish. And although there were so many, the net was not torn. God provides an abundance, and he provides the means to be able to receive the abundance, and then he invites them to breakfast. And as they're finishing breakfast, Jesus talks to Simon Peter Do you love me more than these? Now, the more than these, what does that mean? Some have suggested more than these other disciples do. I think it's probably more than these fish. You see, they were super excited that they caught 153 fish. They knew that it was Jesus. They ate the fish together. These fish represent Peter's former livelihood, his old way of life. I think that's what Jesus is confronting because When Peter confesses his love, Jesus says, Feed my lambs, tend my sheep, feed my sheep. In other words, Jesus is renewing his call to Peter to leave behind the nets and the boats and the fish. which Peter loved so much, leave those things behind and enter into this new life And about forty days after this, maybe thirty some days after this Peter is going to preach the first Christian sermon of the New Testament age at Pentecost, and we'll see a harvest of 3,000. souls caught in the nets of God's grace and brought into the kingdom of God. And from then on, he's never going to go back to fishing again. He is feeding, tending the sheep, the lambs This is Jesus being so gracious to him as to say, yes, you've denied me three times. There's definitely a correspondence Peter denied him three times. Jesus appeared three times, and then Jesus questioned him three times. Definitely very intentional, very providentially purposeful. Do you love me? Do you love me? Do you love me? Yes, Lord, I love you. Yes, Lord, you I love you. You know everything. You know that I love you. Feed my lambs, tend my sheep, feed my sheep. I'm restoring you back by grace. I'm calling you back to the life that I called you to three years ago. Don't abandon the life I've called you to. Don't go back to your former life of fishing and boats and nets and the things that are familiar to you, step out in faith and take the path that I'm leading you on, even though the path that I'm leading you on, and here's where this goes, verse 18 Even though the path that I lead you on is going to lead you to death. You'll follow me faithfully? You'll see many thousands of people come to know me. You'll be an effective fisherman for the kingdom of God. And then you will be taken When you are old and you'll stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go, you will be put to death against your will. But it will be my will for you. That's what I'm calling you to. I am calling you to die. You know, someone once said that when the Lord Jesus bids a man to come and follow me, he bids him to come and die. And Jesus said that, whoever wants to follow me must take up his cross daily. and follow me, deny himself, take up his cross daily and follow me. So are we answering the call of Jesus? Are we making the kingdom of God the priority for our lives? Are we sticking with what is comfortable, what is familiar? What is safe? What is profitable? What is easy? What is understood? Or are we stepping out in faith to say, I want to see the kingdom? I want to see people come to know Jesus. I want to disciple others. I want to feed and tend and care for the lambs. and the sheep. I want to be a part of the church and the work that Christ is doing through the church. That's the call. That's the call. I hope that we will answer it in faith and in grace. Gratitude. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you're so gracious to us and you love us more than we could ever begin to understand. Thank you. Thank you for the grace of salvation that brings us to life, that brings us to a new calling. Help us to answer your call with an eager zeal. Born from the gratitude we have in our hearts for your grace to us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, that is the Gospel of John. Wonderful journey through the Gospel of John. We're going to go back to Jeremiah tomorrow. And pick up with Jeremiah twenty-five. Have a blessed day in the Lord.