Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 1055. Our 1055th day together in the Word of God, and we're coming now to Jonah 3 and 4. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, every part of it. Thank you for this familiar book of Jonah, a story we've heard many times, but help us to see your truth and what you would have for us to learn from it today. Today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, Saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, three days' journey in breadth. Jonah began to go into the city going a day's journey, and he called out, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. And the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest of them to the least of them. The word reached the king of Nineveh. And he arose from his throne, removed his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes, and he issued a proclamation, and published throughout Nineveh. By the decree of the king and his nobles, let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything. Let them not feed or drink water. But let man and beast be covered in sackcloth, and let them call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hand. Who knows? God may turn and relent, and may turn from his fierce anger so that we may not perish. When God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that He said He would do to them And he did not do it. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry. And he prayed to the Lord and said, O Lord, is not this what I said to you when I was yet in my country? That is why I made haste to Therefore, now, O Lord, please take my life from me. For it is better for me to die than And the Lord said, Do you do well to be angry? Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city, and made a booth for himself there. He sat under it in the shade till he should see what would become of the city. Now the Lord God appointed a plant, and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be shade over his head to save him from his discomfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that attacked the plant so that it withered. When the sun rose, God appointed a scorpion. Said to Jonah, Do you do well to be angry for the plant? And he said, Yes, I do well to be angry, angry enough to die. And the Lord said, You pity the plant, for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in a night and perished in a night. And should not I pity Nineveh, that great city in which there are more than one hundred twenty thousand persons who do not know their right hand from their left, and also much Cattle. That's Jonah. So Jonah receives a call the second time The way that this is expressed, so for years and years I always thought that the fish vomited Jonah up, sort of on the banks of the Tigris River close to Nineveh, and that he just walked into the city. But that's not really the way that the opening of Jonah 3 reads if we read it carefully. Jonah returns home, it looks like. Because the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time. Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure It seems much more likely that he was vomited up on the shores of Israel. He went back home, and then the word of the Lord came to him. second time. So he was recommissioned. In other words, God's saying, let's try this again, Jonah. How about this time you obey me? And he does. He obeys. He rose. He went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. That's a key phrase. He's obeying the word of God. Now he gets there sometime later, and Nineveh is an exceedingly great city. It's three days' journey in breadth. He begins to go into the city and he has a very simple Message. This is not God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. This is not let me tell you all the reasons why you need the Lord. He simply says, yet 40 days, and none of us shall be overthrown. That's it. It's not even an invitation to repent. But the people of Nineveh believed God. Now amazingly, if you know about Israel during this time, if you know about the prop the prophetic ministries of Elijah and Elisha. If you know about the prophetic ministries that were going on from Amos and others, they were not accepted by the people of Israel. The people of Nineveh are more responsive to the word of God than the people of Israel at this Time. They believed God. They called for a fast, they put on sackcloth, the greatest of them to the least of them. The king issued a proclamation, calling for repentance from everyone. And he says, let them call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hand. So not just let's put on a show of penance, but let's truly turn from our evil to the Lord. Who knows? God may turn and relent and turn from his fear anger so that we may not perish. He doesn't even presume. He doesn't presume Well, God must have sent this prophet here because he really wants to forgive us. And so guys, if we go through this routine, if we do the steps, right, if we do the steps, we'll get the blessing. No, it's none of that. None of this formulaic I'm going to predict what God's going to do. I'm going to make God do my will. None of that. It is genuine repentance and it is heartfelt crying out to the Lord with a who knows God may Who knows God may. Pleading for the mercy of God. Now when God saw what they did, he relented. And Jonah knew that he would. This is why Jonah didn't want to go to Nineveh. He wasn't afraid of the Assyrians He knew God was merciful. He knew the only reason why God would send him as a prophet to pronounce the doom upon Nineveh is because God wanted to be a very good idea. To have mercy on them. He knows the character of God. Chapter four, verse three. I knew Chapter 4, verse 2. I knew you were a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. This is this is God's self disclosure of his own character. It goes all the way back to the burning bush in Exodus three. It's repeated multiple times throughout the Old Testament. Who is God? God is a gracious God And merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in chesed in steadfast love and relenting from disaster. He he loves to forgive. God loves God loves to be gracious. God loves to be merciful. God takes no joy in the death of the wicked. He loves to have mercy. Jonah is so sickened, so sickened at the idea that God would have mercy upon these wicked Assyrians, these wicked Ninevehites, that he would rather die. Then live and see them saved. Jonah is a nationalist. He is an ethnocentric nationalist who despises the enemies of Israel and doesn't care whether they are made in the image of God Whether they have a life that is worth sparing. And so God sends him an illustration, sends him a plant to provide him some shade. And then the plasti plant withers and Jonah is just so upset about it. He asks to die. It's better for me to die than live. And God says, You you pity this plant. You didn't labor for the plant, you didn't make it grow. It came into being in a night, it perished in a night. Do you not understand that there are 120 thousand people in Nineveh who do not know their right hand from their left. God is the Lord of all the earth. He made every human being. In the world, in his image. Now, we've gone astray, we're wicked, we deserve his judgment, but he still wants to forgive. And at times he acts in supernatural ways to bring revival, to bring repentance, to bring salvation. Because he doesn't delight, he doesn't afflict from the heart as Lamentations 3. This is a call. It's a challenge to us. To check our prejudices, to check the way that we get caught up into nationalistic ways of thinking and And we think, oh, those people over there, they're the enemies of America, so they should all just be wiped off the planet. There are everywhere in the world people who are so young that they don't even know their right hand from their left. And then this funny phrase, and also much cattle. What a weird way to end a prophetic book And also much cattle. Yes, God even loves the animals. He made them. He rules over them. He provides for them. Read Psalm 104. God is the Lord of all creation. One day He's going to redeem all creation. Read Romans 8. And so we, if we are going to be God's servants, And God's representatives and God's ambassadors, we must love. We must value. We must have mercy. We shouldn't be like Jonah and say, man, I'd rather die than see those people come to repentance. Those people, that group that I'm so against, I'd rather die than see them come to the Lord. No. We should have the opposite kind of heart. I will pour out my life to see them come to know the Lord. Because that's the heart of our God. And it should be our heart as well. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are the sovereign Lord over heaven and earth. You created and you sustained all life and you value all life. People made in your image, animals cared for by your hand, all precious to you. So give us a heart that would value what you value, that would love what you love. that would imitate what you do. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for the book of Jonah. Over these couple of days, we are going to get back to 1 Peter tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.