Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bevel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 10 fifty four and we are continuing our journey through God's Word. We've got uh not that much longer left until we finish marching through the minor prophets and uh the those epistles that are um Well we're in 1 Peter. We got first the 2nd Peter, 1 2nd, 3 John, those those kinds of uh letters to go, I think, on the New Testament side. But anyway, here we are in the book of Jonah, and we're gonna cover Jonah actually two chapters per day. And in two days, because there's four chapters total in Jonah. The story is familiar, but I think with a lot of things that are familiar we miss maybe what's actually happening and uh because we just get focused on the things we heard in Sunday school and not necessarily the bigger picture of what's happening here. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for your love for us. Thank you for the gift of life in your Son Jesus Christ. Thank you for the gift of your word. Thank you for the day-by-day time that we We pray, Lord God, that you would be with us and teach us and draw us close to Christ as we spend time in Jonah 1 and 2 today. We pray this in Jesus' name Okay, Jonah one and two Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amittai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it for their evil has come up before me. But Jonah rose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. He went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went down into it to go with them to Tarshish away from the presence of the Lord. But the Lord hurled a great wind upon the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea so that the ship threatened to break up. Then the mariners were afraid, and each cried out to his God, and they hurled the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship, and had lain down and was fast asleep. So the captain came and said to him, What do you mean, you sleeper? Arise, call out to your God. Perhaps the God will give a thought to us that we may not perish. And they said to one another, Come, let us cast lots that we may know on whose account this evil has come upon us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah. Then they said to him, Tell us, on whose account this evil has come upon us? What is your occupation? And where do you come from? And what is your country? And of what people are you? And he said to them, I am a Hebrew And I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land. Then the men were exceedingly afraid, and said to them To him, What is this that you have done? For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord, because he had told them. Then they said to him, What shall we do to you that the sea may quiet down for us? For the sea grew more and more tempestuous. He said to them, Pick me up and hurl me into the sea. Then the sea will quiet down for you. For I know it is because of me that this great tempest has come upon you. Nevertheless, the men rode hard to get back to dry land, but they could not, for the sea grew more and more tempestuous against them Therefore they called out to the Lord, O Lord, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us innocent blood. For you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you So they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging. Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly. And they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made vows. And the Lord appointed a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. Then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from the belly of the fish, saying, I called out to the Lord out of my distress, and he answered Answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried, and you heard my voice. For you cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the flood surrounded me. Then I said, I am driven away from your sight, yet I shall again look upon your holy temple. The waters closed in over me to take my life, the deep surrounded me, weeds were wrapped around my head. At the roots of the mountains I went down to the land, whose bars closed upon me forever. Yet you brought up my life from the pit. O Lord my God, while my life was fainting away, I remembered the Lord, and my prayer came to you into your holy temple. Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast love. But I, with the voice of thanksgiving, will sacrifice to you what I have vowed, I will pay. Salvation belongs to the Lord. And it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land. This is Jonah 1 and 2 in the Word of God. So within the book of Jonah itself, we don't really know that much about Jonah, other than the fact that he was Jonah, the son of Amit. However, he is mentioned by name in the book of 2 Kings. So we know that he was a prophet during the reign of Jeroboam II, the second Jeroboam, not the original one with the split. And that puts this in a specific time frame when Assyria is the rising power in the world and a threat to Israel, to northern Israel. They've started expanding, they've started conquering their neighbors and and they're they're the they're the big bad guys in the area. And so when the Lord says to Jonah, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it, for their evil has come up before me. Jonah goes in the opposite direction. He rose to flee to Tarshish. He went down to Joppa and found a ship. I've got a map here. I'm going to bring it up. So Israel To get to Nineveh, you would go over land to the east, and then what he does instead is goes to the coast on the west and get on a ship and head further west. You know, so he's supposed to be going this way to the east to go to Nineveh, and he goes the opposite way, and to head to Tarshish, that is in Spain. Present-day Spain, that's pretty much the opposite end of the world, as far as Jonah knew of the world existing. So, and the other interesting thing is that he's swallowed by the fish. in the Eastern Mediterranean, but he ends up being vomited on the shore And we don't know for sure if he's vomited on the shore by Israel and then he has to walk over Nineveh or Nineveh is on the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. If he's vomiting on the shore of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers much closer to Nineveh, which would be very, very difficult for that fish to get him there because it would have to really swim around the Horn of Africa because there is no Suez Canal through this part of Egypt. But this gives you an idea of the fact that he really is going in the opposite direction. He's going in the opposite direction as far as he can The Assyrians are the big threat in the region. So some people have speculated that Jonah might have been afraid to go. He might have been intimidated by the Ninevehites Now that's not going to turn out to be true, but that's not going to be revealed to us until chapter 4, which we'll be looking at tomorrow. So he gets on this ship and he pays them to take him to Tarshish, away from the presence of the Lord. Now, can you really sail away from the presence of the Lord? Jonah was a prophet, but apparently Jonah Had not read or did not believe Psalm 139 that had been written by David hundreds of years earlier, where you can't flee from the presence of the Lord. You can't go anywhere where God is not, because even as Jonah later it confesses himself, he knows that the Lord Yahweh is the maker of the sea and the dry land. So Jonah seems to have slipped into a little bit of a cultural mindset, and that is within the culture of his day, people saw the gods as being territorial. So Israel was the land of Yahweh. Yahweh was the God of Israel. And if you go away, far away from the land of Israel, to the other side of the sea, remember that language from Psalm 130? If I go to the other side of the sea, you are with me. Well, that's what Jonah's doing. He's trying to go to the other side of the sea to get away from God. But of course of course he can't. God has commissioned him, and now God is compelling him to go to Nineveh. So he sends a storm, and there's a mighty tempest, and the sailors are terrified. Jonah has gone to the inner part of the ship and laid down and fallen And fast asleep. He is hard-hearted in his rebellion. He knows why the storm has come, but he doesn't pray. He doesn't volunteer information until the lots are cast and he's the one picked out. Then he sort of tells them what's going on, but his solution isn't let's get back to land so that I can go to Nineveh. His solution is pick me up and hurl me into the sea. He would rather die than go to Nineveh. That's how we're supposed to See that. See we know a fish is coming, and so we might read into that and think, Oh well Jonah wants to be thrown into the sea because God's gonna have him swallowed up by a giant fish. up by a giant fish. He is telling these sailors to kill him. Throw me into the water. Sea will quiet down for you. I'm the problem. Get rid of me, and your problem is solved. The guys don't want to do that. The sailors don't want to do that. He's a prophet of the Lord. They are probably like many pagan polytheists, they they have reverence for all the gods, including Yahweh. They don't want to anger any of the gods, including Yahweh. That's their mindset. And so they try hard to get back to land. They're rowing hard. They can't. They can't get anywhere because God is at work here. And so finally, they offered a sacrifice to the Lord. They made vows after they had picked Jonah up and hurled him into the sea, because they didn't want they were doing what Jonah said to do, but they didn't want And so they they offered up sacrifices, and the Lord sends a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And here's the key. Verse 17 And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days Days and three nights. Jesus, when he was asked to give a sign to authenticate his Messiahship, he said no sign will be given to this crooked generation. But the sign of Jonah. As Jonah was in the belly of the whale for three days and three nights, so the Son of Man will be in the earth for three days and three nights. So Jesus himself says that Jonah here is a sign, a type, a foreshadowing, an anticipation, a representation. of Christ in his burial and his resurrection. And Jonah's prayer confirms this. When Jonah prays to the Lord from the belly of the fish He talks about being in the belly of Sheol, which is the grave, which is death. Jonah. Now I'm not saying that Jonah actually died and rose again. We don't have that from the text, but he might as well have been dead. He might as well have been dead. He was thrown into the sea, and then he was swallowed by a giant fish, swallowed whole. What else is he supposed to think that means for him? Oh, the fish is gonna vomit me up on dry ground and I'm gonna walk to Nineveh? No. He hasn't had the Sunday school lesson of his life. He's living it. This is real history. He is he's a dead man. He's a dead man being slowly digested in the belly of a fish. It's over for him. But somehow, by faith, Jonah also confesses in verse 4, yet I shall again look upon your Holy temple. He said, when my life was fainting away, I remembered the Lord. My prayer came up to you, to your holy temple. And therefore he says, what I have vowed, I will pay. Salvation belongs to me. the Lord in his dying, in his decomposing, being being slowly digested by the stomach acids of the fish, in that state Ever wonder what Jonah looked like when he was vomited up? Hmm. So he is crying out to the Lord and he says I'm not gonna trust idols. I'm gonna give thanks to you. I'm gonna sacrifice to you. I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna do what I vowed. What I vowed I will pay. I Consecrated my life to you, I said I would serve you as a prophet. I'm good And so then the Lord speaks to the fish and it vomits Jonah out on the dry land. Jonah had to learn obedience to God, submission And he also had to experience this kind of death and resurrection before he could be useful for the Lord's purpose and answer the Lord's own. He had to sin and flee, and be brought back by the sovereign grace of God, the steadfast love, the Lord, so that he would be ready to take this message to the Ninevites. And that's what we will look at tomorrow. Let's pray. Learn from it. We pray that you would continue to teach us and draw us closer to Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen All right, we're going to continue tomorrow and look at chapters three and four of this short book. Wonderful book. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.