Good morning and welcome to our final Advent Devotional of 2025. It is Christmas Eve. This is the last day of Advent. Tomorrow actually begins the first day of Christmas, you know, the twelve days of Christmas. Tomorrow, Christmas Day is the first day of Christmas, and I hope you have a joyful Christmas today. We're gonna be looking at Joy to the World, which is always a part of our Christmas Eve service at Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Other songs change, but we always sing Joy to the World and we always end with Silent Night by Candlelight, and I love that. But this is what we might call accidental Christmas classic because Isaac Watts did not write this to be a Christmas carol at all. It's based on Psalm 98. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us, for the gift of your Son, who came into the world to bring blessing and joy to your people all over this world. Please bless us today as we think about you and your word in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. All right. Joy to the world. The Lord is come. Psalm 98 is really what Isaac Watts was doing. He was taking Psalm 98 and he was writing a poem for the church to understand Psalm 98 in the light of Christ. So Psalm 98 says, O sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. The Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. He has remembered His steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel, all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth, break forth into joyous song, and sing praises. Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre, with the lyre and the sound of melody with trumpets and the sound of the horn, make a joyful noise before the King the Lord. Let the sea roar and all that fills it, the world and those who dwell in it Let the rivers clap their hands, let the hills sing for joy together before the Lord, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness and the peoples with equity Love Psalm 98 and a love dweller of the world. And it really is a very fitting adaptation of this psalm to bring it to God's people. Some people will say, you may have heard this online, you may have heard it from somebody else, that Psalm 98 and that joy to the world are not really about Christmas at all. Now, I would agree that Isaac Watts did not intentionally sit down and write a Christmas carol when he wrote Joy to the World. But I would say that Psalm 98 is a Psalm of the coming of Christ into the world, the coming of Messiah into the world. I saw something while I was doing research and somebody said, it's not even about the Messiah. Well that's not true at all. Right? And it is about his first coming into the world. I heard some people say, oh, it's only about the second coming. No, it's not true. It is about his first coming into the world. His right hand and his holy arm. That's an Old Testament way of referring to Jesus. The right hand and the holy arm is how God stretches out his power to to intervene in the world. And that's really always happens within the economy of the Trinity, always happens through, through Jesus. And his right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. The Lord has made known his salvation. And then twice there, in those lines, we get the name of Jesus. Because the name of Jesus in Hebrew, Yeshua, is the same as the word for salvation. So we have the very name of Jesus, the name that the angel gave him, call him salvation, for he will save his people from their sins. He was right there at the end of verse one, the beginning of verse two. His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. The Lord has made known his salvation. For he has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. What is the revelation of the righteousness of God in the sight of the world? It's Jesus coming into the world. He has remembered his steadfast love, his chassed, and his faithfulness. That means he's kept his covenant promises. How has God kept his covenant promises? By sending his son Jesus into the world. All the promises of God find their yes in him. And all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. How have all the ends of the earth seen the salvation of our God? Through Jesus coming into the world. It's just very clearly a prophecy and a call for celebration of the coming of Jesus into the world to bring salvation to the ends of the world. He's the revelation of the righteousness of God. He's the keeping of God's promises. He's the working of salvation. He is salvation. And how should the world respond to that? Make a joyful noise. to the Lord all the earth. Joy to the world. Break forth into joyous song and sing praises. Sing praises to the Lord. With the lyre the sound of melody, trumpets, horn, make a joyful noise before the King the Lord. There should be exuberant joy at the coming of Jesus into the world, because he brings salvation, and he brings the keeping of all of God's promises And so not only the peoples of the world, but even all of creation. Let the sea roar and though all that fills it the world and the rivers and the hills. Why? Is this just poetic language? It's more than just poetic language. Romans eight would tell us that the whole creation is waiting in eager expectation for the revel for the revealing of the sons of God. So creation rejoices when Jesus comes in the world the first time because he's coming in on the rescue mission as the salvation of God, as the keeping of all the promises of God in flesh. And he works a salvation that will, that secures, and that will lead to the final release from bondage. So there is some anticip anticipation because in the Old Testament what we often get is the benefits of Christ's first coming and his second coming sort of collapse together in that collapsed horizon. So there is a sort of anticipation of the benefits of the second coming, but that doesn't mean it's not about the first coming. It is definitely about the first coming of Jesus and and looks forward and rejoices at the benefits of his second coming as well. And we get that very clearly at the end, before the Lord, for he comes to judge the earth. So this is the coming of judging the earth. We could see that really as two it's not clearly two separate comings in Psalm ninety eight because it's not clearly two separate comings throughout the whole Old Testament. But in verses one and two what we have is Really the benefits and the blessings of Christ's first coming. He works salvation, he makes known his salvation, he reveals the righteousness of God to the sight of the nations. He is the fulfilling of all of God's promises. And then at the end of Psalm 98, we have the anticipation of what will happen when he comes again. He tells to judge the earth and to judge the world. So, Psalm 98 is a psalm of the coming of Christ into the world in all its fullness. First and second coming of Christ in the world. And so Isaac Watts, even though he wasn't trying to write a Christmas carol, he ended up writing. one of the best that's ever been written. So this is from Crossway, uh from their website, Crossway. org, and they say, Do you know that Joy to the World was not written as a Christmas carol? In its original form, it had nothing to do with Christmas. It wasn't even written to be a song. Isaac Watts was one of the great hymn writers in church history, and I guess nothing shows that better than the fact that he wrote one of the most famous hymns by accident. In 1719, Watts published a book of poems, in which each poem was based on a psalm. But rather than just translate the original Old Testament texts He adjusted them to refer more explicitly to the work of Jesus as it had been revealed in the New Testament. One of those poems was an adaptation of Psalm 98. Watts interpreted this psalm as a celebration of Jesus' role as King of both his church and the whole world It was more than a century later when the second half of the poem was slightly adapted and set to music to give us what has become one of the most famous of all Christmas carols. Joy to the world. The Lord is come. Let earth receive her King. Let every heart prepare him room. And heaven and nature sing. Joy to the earth, the Savior reigns, let men their songs employ, while fields and floods, rocks, hills, and plains repeat the sounding joy. No more let sins or sorrows grow, Nor thorns infest the ground, He comes to make his blessings flow, far as the curse is found. He rules the world with truth and grace and makes the nations prove the glories of his righteousness and wonders of his love. The hymn, like the psalm, it was adapting, combines the joy of Christ's first coming with an anticipation of the joy of his coming again. And that's exactly what we should be doing every Advent season Remembering and rejoicing in the first coming of Christ into the world, and then anticipating with joy what will come about when he comes again. So we we thank him for coming and we pray, come quickly, Lord Jesus. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, thank you. You sent your son to bring salvation, for he is salvation. Lord Jesus, thank you for coming into the world as the righteousness of God revealed. as the keeping of every promise, as the steadfast love of God incarnate. Thank you. Holy Spirit, thank you for drawing our hearts to Jesus, that we might rejoice in the blessings and benefits He has come to make known. We thank you, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, for the gift of Christmas, of salvation, of righteousness, of peace, of eternal joy. Help us to rejoice today and always we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for this Advent Carol series We're going to close it out by listening to Joy to the World, and I hope that you have a wonderful, wonderful Christmas season. Joy to the world, the Lord is come. Let out receive the king. Every are preparing and seven and nature sing and seven and nature sing And heaven and nature Joy to the earth, the saviorings. Let me song. Well feel them flood, racks and play, repeat the sounding joy, repeat the sounding joy, repeat the jo Peter repeat the sounding joy. No more that then and sorrow groan. No storms and fest the ground He curs to make his blessings flow for as the curse is found. For as the curse is found, for as for as the curse is found The world with true man Christ and makes the nations prove the glory is righteous. Yes, and wonders of his love, and wonders of his love, and wonders wonders of his love.