Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 23rd week together in the Gospels. We're in day two, which is Luke 6, 37 to 49. We're basically going to take the final third of Luke 6. And as we look at these Passage is these verses here, we're going to ask ourselves this question, how should we view ourselves and others? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for the way that you reveal your son to us. Thank you for the ways that your son confronts us in our deluded and distorted thinking. And sets us straight. We pray, Lord God, that you would teach us and grow us. In Jesus' name. Amen So how should we view ourselves and others? Here's Luke 6, 37 to 49. Judge not, and you will not be judged. Condemn not, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven. Give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For with the measure you use it will be measured back to you. He also told them a parable. Can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into a pit? A disciple is not above his teacher, but every one, when he is fully trained, will be like his teacher. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log? that is in your own eye. How can you say to your brother, Brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye when you yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite First, take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother's eye. For no good tree bears bad fruit. Nor again does a bad tree bear good fruit, for each tree is known by its own fruit. For figs are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush. The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of the evil treasure produces evil. For out of the abundance of his heart his mouth speaks. Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you? Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like. He is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock, and when a flood arose the stream broke against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built. But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it, immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. Here's a harsh reality about ourselves that we all need to face. We're very quick to make excuses for our own sin. taking into account all the circumstances and rationalizations we can muster, and we are just as quick to condemn the sins of others, or at least the ones that offend us the most The benefit of the doubt that we extend so readily to ourselves, we rarely extend to others, and the harsh judgment we pass on the failings of others that hurt so deeply When others send it back to us in our time of weakness. As human beings, we are constantly judging and condemning one another. and just as consistently excusing our own failings. One of the worst things you can do right now is to agree with everything that I've just said and then think of all the people you know who fit this description so perfectly. Oh yes, I agree. Conservatives are so quick to condemn sexual sin while they excuse their own self-righteousness or Oh, absolutely right. Those liberals are so quick to condemn people for their intolerance, but they're really the most intolerant bunch around. Stop. Go back and think about this again. We are all so quick to make excuses, rationalize and justify our own sin. And we are just as quick to harshly condemn the sins of others. Don't apply this to anyone else, but just apply it to yourself. Yes, this is true. I do this all the time. I pick and choose the sins of my own that I will excuse and the sins of others that I will condemn In this passage, Jesus is talking to me. Jesus is telling us to extend grace and understanding, patience and forgiveness to others for their sin. Be very slow to condemn anyone. Would you really want someone measuring your life by the same measure you use when you criticize others? But then Jesus goes on in verses 39 to 49 to call us to a rigorous level of self-examination. The criticism we are to spare others, we should not spare ourselves. We should see our own sin as a log in our own eye. And see others' sin as mere specks in their eye. We are to see our own inconsistency in calling Jesus Lord, Lord, while we do not do what he says. Our hearts should be broken by our own hypocrisy, but should also be overflowing with compassion for the weaknesses of others. We don't do any of this very well. We are much better at jumping on the bandwagon of the critics who are quick to condemn. We are much better at avoiding the hard work of repentance and the even harder work of forgiveness and love. That's why we need Jesus. His grace can change our hearts and give us the love for others that we want others to extend to us. His Spirit can also give us the strength to hate our own sin. and long to see it removed from our lives forever. This is the work of the gospel as the Holy Spirit applies the righteousness of Christ to our hearts day by day Let's go now to Psalm 112 as we're learning how to pray the Psalms together. Psalm 112: Praise the Lord. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord. who greatly delights in his commandments, his offspring will be mighty in the land, the generation of the upright will be blessed. Wealth and riches are in his house, and his righteousness endures for ever Light dawns in the darkness for the upright. He is gracious, merciful, and righteous It is well with the man who deals generously and lends, who conducts his affairs with justice, for the righteous will never be moved. He will be remembered forever. He is not afraid of bad news. His heart is firm, trusting in the Lord. His heart is steady. He will not be afraid until he looks in triumph on his adversaries. He has distributed freely, he has given to the poor, his righteousness endures forever, his horn is exalted in honor. The wicked man sees it and is angry. He gnashes his teeth and melts away. The desire of the wicked will perish. That's Psalm 112. And again, we need the Holy Spirit to convict us that we are not as righteous as we should be. Jesus is the righteous man who is here blessed by the Lord. We are righteous only in him, and we need the Holy Spirit to make us more like him. So let's pray. O Heavenly Father, we need to fear you. We need to delight in your commands. We need to be upright. to be gracious, merciful, and righteous. We need to deal generously and lend. We need to conduct our affairs with justice. This is required by you. that we trust in you with a firm heart and we are not moved. But Lord, when we examine our own hearts and our own lives with honesty, we see that We are very inconsistent and we fall short of this. And the only way that we ever measure up to this is because Christ is in us and the Holy Spirit is working the righteousness of Christ in our hearts. So Lord, have mercy on us and continue to make us more like Jesus. Thank you that Jesus came and fulfilled this psalm, that he was the perfectly righteous man. We are called to be. That he is that for us. And by your Holy Spirit, you are making us into his image. Continue that work that you've begun. Help us to be humble and broken about our own sin. Help us to be kind and gentle toward others about theirs. as you grow us to be more like Jesus, the righteous and merciful one. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for this latest episode in Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope you can join me again tomorrow, and I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.