Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Through this series of devotionals on Monday, Wednesday, Friday throughout this year, we're moving through the 129 questions and answers of the Heidelberg Catechism Which catechism is just a way of talking about a series of questions and answers that teach a particular doctrine, or in this case, that teach us how to have gospel comfort, to move us from guilt. through grace to gratitude. And today we're coming to question number 10. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much. For your word. Thank you so much for your gospel, for your son, who came to save us, to set us free from sin and death, to bring us home to you. Heavenly Father, please bless our time together in your word today. Please bless our understanding of your gospel truth to the enrichment of our souls today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. So today we are on question number 10, but first we're going to review question 9. As we typically do, we want to make sure we're reviewing and understanding the context because each question flows into the next one. So last time we looked at question 9, but does not God do man an injustice by requiring in his law what man cannot do? And the answer is no, for God so created man that he was able to do it. But man, at the instigation of the devil, in deliberate disobedience, robbed himself and all his descendants of these gifts. So this question I is bringing up the question of God's justice. Is it an injustice for God to require in his law what we cannot do? And the answer we looked at last time is no, because we were able to do it. And we chose, in Adam, we chose to deliberately disobey. And Adam chose to rob himself and all of his descendants of these gifts, the gifts of being made in the image of God, the gifts of having knowledge of the one true God, of having righteousness, a sound conscience. uh to to obey what is right, holiness being set apart by God and for God. These gifts were robbed by the devil and given in deliberate disobedience. So then while we're on the question of God's justice, question 10 flows from that. Will God allow such disobedience and apostasy to go unpunished? This deliberate disobedience. Is it going to go unpunished? Certainly not. He is terribly angry. With our original sin as well as our actual sins, therefore he will punish them by a just judgment, both now and eternally, as he has declared. Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the book of the law. Now, in our question, we have this word apostasy. Apostasy just means a falling away. That's what Adam did. He fell away from the state of innocence that he was created in and fell into a fallen state. And we still bear responsibility for that, because again, if we had been in his place, we would have made the same choice. We have disobedience, and God is angry with it. God is a just judge. This is really what this question is driving home. God is a just judge who is angry with the wicked every day, Scripture says. And our original sin, the sinful condition we have, as well as our original sins. And God being just will punish with a just judgment. He has declared it. He will not break his word. Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the book of the law. The book of the law is given as a righteous requirement. It is good, it is holy, it is the righteous requirement of God. It must be kept. We don't keep it. And God is angry about that, and God will punish that. So, scripture. We already have some scripture even here in the question itself, Galatians 3. 10. But let's go back. To Exodus 34 on the mountain of Mount Sinai, the mountain of the Lord, where God gave the Ten Commandments to Moses. And then later Moses said, Lord, I want to see your glory. And this is how the Lord revealed his glory. He said, No one can see my glory and live. So Moses wasn't able to have a face-to-face vision of God's glory, because he wouldn't be able to handle it, but God hid him in the cleft of the rock and caused all of his goodness to pass by before him and proclaimed the name of the Lord there. So this is what the Lord proclaimed. The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, This is the name of the Lord. The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generations. You see, God is abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. God does keep steadfast love. God is merciful and gracious. God is slow to anger, but God is also a holy and just judge. He will by no means clear the guilty. Are you feeling the tension that this creates? Within this is the name of God. This is the name of the Lord. Within the very character of God, there is a tension. between God's mercy, which withholds punishment, His grace, which gives us what we don't deserve, the good things we don't deserve, his slowness to anger, his abounding in steadfast love and covenant-keeping faithfulness with this holy justice of his God is not a corrupt judge. God will not wink and turn his the head and sweep it under the rug and say no big deal. That will not, that cannot happen. He will by no means clear the guilty. That ought to cause us to sit up and say, wait a minute. We're being told something here about God's character that is absolutely vital for us to understand. Ephesians five, verses five and six Talking about unbelievers, those who continue habitually in sin, for you may be sure of this. that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure or covetous that is an idolater Has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Disobedience. Everyone. Sexually immoral, impure, covetous, that is an idolater. That pretty much covers everybody. Because Jesus said if you look at a woman lustfully, You've committed adultery in your heart. The impurity, impurity covers such a wide variety of sins that defile us. All sin defiles us. Covetousness? Idolatry? That that covers everybody too. We're all covetous. We're all in our heart idolaters. We we value and prize and covet for ourselves things that God has given to others, things that are not God. People who continue in this state of sin, people whose lives are characterized by these things, have no inheritance in the kingdom of God in Christ, and this is why the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. That means we all deserve the wrath of God because we are all, by nature, by our original nature, and by our actions, by our original actions, sons of disobedience. Now, in Christ, it doesn't mean we're still sons of disobedience, but this is who we are by nature, apart from the grace of God, apart from the work of Christ Here's one more scripture from Psalm 5, verses 4 to 6. For you are not a God who delights in wickedness. Evil may not dwell with you. The boastful shall not stand before your eyes. You hate all evildoers. You destroy those who speak lies. The Lord abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man. You see, sometimes we domesticate God and we just imagine God as like smiling, like a warm grandpa kind of a guy. Like, oh, it's okay, it's fine, don't worry about it, don't make a big deal out of it. That's not God. That's not the God of the Bible who is holy, holy, holy, who is just And who is the judge? If we take the scriptures seriously, and we understand that the Lord destroys those who speak lies. That's all of us. We've all spoken lies. But the boastful shall not stand before God's eyes. How many times have we boasted in ourselves? The only right response to these scriptures is to be humbled and broken and cry out, Lord, have mercy on me, a sinner. That's why Jesus told the parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector. Remember that parable that Jesus told? The Pharisee and the tax collector both go up to the temple to pray. The Pharisee stands off by himself and he says, Oh Lord, I thank you. That I am not like other men, that I am not a cheater, I'm not a liar, I'm not a swindle, I'm not like this tax collector over here. I thank you that I'm not that way. The tax collector stands off by himself and he won't even lift his eyes up to heaven, but he beats his breast and he says, Lord have mercy on me, a sinner. Lord have mercy on me, a sinner. sinner and Jesus says, I tell you the truth, that man, the tax collector, and not the Pharisee, goes home justified. On the basis of justice, on the basis of law, we cannot approach God on our own. Now God is just, and as as the catechism unfolds, it's going to show us how the cross, the cross is the reconciliation of the How can God be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus, to put it in the language of Romans 3. 23. How can God be both the just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus? In other words, how do we get back to Exodus 34 and we say, how can God be merciful and gracious and Also, not clear the guilty. The cross is the answer to that question, but I don't want to rush ahead to it yet. We're getting there step by step because we need to feel the weight of our guilt. If we're going to feel the glory of grace. So back to our question: will God allow such disobedience and apostasy to go unpunished? Certainly not. He is terribly angry with our original sin as well as our actual sins. Therefore, he will punish them by a just judgment, both now and eternally, as he has declared. Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the book of the law, Galatians 3. 10. Let's pray Oh, Heavenly Father, we ought to tremble when we think of how holy and just you are. Because we are aware we have spoken lies. We have boasted. We have lusted. We have been covetous, which means we have been idolaters. We have been in ourselves impure. Scripture condemns us over and over again. We have no hope apart from Christ. And we thank you so much that Jesus came into the world. To be perfectly sinless. He never spoke a lie. He never coveted. He never lusted. He never boasted. He was never impure. And he did that for us. For our salvation, because we don't have any hope on our own. He became our hope. So we thank you for Jesus. And it's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, as we've been doing, we're going to respond to God's word by worshiping the Lord together. We're going to sing today. Say have mercy on me. I am a sinner, your blameless Lord, my sins against you. Can't be ignored. They will be punished. I know they must. You love demands. For you are just if you would count everything I've done wrong. Who could There's for gifts with you, God. Have mercy only have mercy only Broken and a contrite heart, you want to play. Have mercy on me. Have mercy on me. Because of your steadfast love, I need your mercy. For a seventh Lord, Father Mercy, you gave your son. To make atonement for wrongs I have done, what you require, Jesus fulfilled. I don't deserve it. I never will. Oh, if you would count everything. That I've done wrong Who could stand the best forgiveness when you die? Have mercy of me. Have nothing around me and a contact you want to know Have not the Because of your self love. Put my trust in love shows with the trust that back now is. The army have mercy on me a broken contract you want to run away. Have mercy on me. Have mercy on me because of your step fast. Because of your step, fast love.