That's a good song for us to sing and pray as we turn now to God's Word. We're in Romans chapter 3, verse 27. We're going to go to chapter 4, verse 12. Our catechism question earlier in the service was a great setup for this, and how we're justified. That's the theme of today's passage. Romans three twenty-seven to four twelve. Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by the law of faith. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one. Who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith? Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means, on the contrary, we uphold the law. What then shall we say was gained by Abraham our forefather according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift, but as his due. And to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as as righteousness, just as David also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin Is this blessing then only for the circumcised? Or also for the uncircumcised? For we say that faith was counted to Abraham as righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father of the circumcised. Who are not merely circumcised, but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised. Let's pray. Heavenly Father This is your word. It's your truth. It has important truth for us to receive and to believe. We pray that you would quiet our minds. And our souls, prepare our hearts to receive. And that is what just saying, Lord, that you would speak to us, to all of us. You would take your word and plant it deep within us. That it might bear fruit for your glory, by your grace, through faith, to the glory of Jesus. In His name we pray. Amen. You may be seated. You may have heard the saying that some folks wake up on third base and think they hit a triple. Well, in justification by faith, what Paul is telling us is that when it comes to salvation You wake up believing in Christ and are fully home. So don't act like you hit a home run. Because it was the grace of God through faith that brought you into a right standing before God. We've been seeing, as we've been going through Romans, that it is impossible for us to justify ourselves because we're sinners. We are the problem, we can't be the solution. We're covered in the filth of our sin and our hands are so dirty that all of our own attempts to clean ourselves just end up making ourselves more of a mess. It's like a a little kid who's eating blueberries. And they got blueberries on their hand, they got blueberries on their face. But when they see a mirror and they see that they got blueberries on their face, they take their hands and they start wiping their face. And all it does is spread the blueberry mess. And wise parents are like, whoa, stop. Let me clean you. And that's the way it is with our sin and our and our pollution. We can't clean ourselves. Some people don't like that, though. They think, well, maybe God should have set it up some other way. Maybe God should have put it in such a way that, you know, he gives us the ability to keep his commands. So that we can earn our own righteousness and maybe some way of atoning for our own sins too. Just give us the things to do, God. Can't you set that up? Nothing's impossible for God. Why couldn't He set up a system where he says, okay, just do these things, and that'll earn you righteousness and clean yourself up and then give us the ability to be able to do those things. We say it's impossible, but surely nothing is impossible with God. Wouldn't it be better for us to have some skin in the game, for us to have like earned it, some sweat equity in our salvation? It seems rather un-American. Right? We need to pull ourselves up by our bootstrap. We need to be the self-made man. Why would God be un-American? Well, thinking that way misses two very important things. The first is the reality that we just can't. Yeah, nothing's impossible for God, but righteousness is impossible for us. We are so broken by sin, we are so dead in our sins and transgressions that we can't do it. And more importantly, we don't even want to. Left on our own, left to our own devices, we prefer to be the god of our own little universe. We prefer to be the king, the judge, and the jury. We prefer to pass sentence that we are doing just fine. Thank you very much. So that's the first big problem with it. But the second big problem with it is this. If we do the work of saving ourselves We would be entitled to take credit and to boast in our salvation to our own glory. And this would rob glory from God, who is the source of every good thing in our lives, including our salvation. We already do this in almost every other area of our lives. We think that the reason that we have a house to live in and a car to drive and food to eat. is because we work hard to provide for our family. And while that may be true, we can't give ourselves the next breath that we take The health of our bodies, the strength that we have, the clarity of our minds to be able to do the work that we've been given to do is all a gift from God. And so everything in all of life should be to his glory. And we are such glory thieves that wherever we can steal credit for it, we will do so. We are like that guy who wakes up on third base. and then congratulates himself for hitting a triple. We do that in every other area of life. And so God says, hey, slow your roll. You're not going to do it here. You're not going to take the glory that is mine in salvation because of my love and my grace and steal it for yourselves. And so that's the first main point that Paul makes in this passage. If we are justified by faith apart from works of the law, we have no reason to boast. Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No. But by the law of faith. For justified by faith, apart from works of the law, we have no reason to To boast. But we like to boast, don't we? Especially in our social media age. We like to, listen, you guys will go on vacation. I'll do it too, so I'm not going to say you guys. We will go on vacation. We will lose our temper with the kids and yell at them for the way they're fighting with each other in the back of the van We will get frustrated at the traffic that we're stuck in trying to get to the beach. And then we'll complain about how hot the sand is on the beach and how much sand gets in everything And then we'll complain about how much we had to pay for the place that we were staying and the condition that it's in. But what we will do is we will take happy pictures of all the most wonderful moments And we'll post them on social media because we want people to say, oh, look at them. They are so great. Don't they look nice? You know, you take take 25 family pictures, so you can pick the one where everybody's looking at the camera and smiling. And that way you say, what a great family. Our culture in many ways is kind of built on boasting, the modern American culture. Like if someone has confidence and they are sure of themselves and they sort of walk with their head high and sort of talk about how great they are. Well it's not hard. Like people like that tend to become celebrities within our culture. We tend to celebrate it. Now, as Christians, we think, well, we know we're not supposed to act that way, but we find other ways to pose, like our social media posts, like I said, but also we kind of Teach this gospel of self-achievement and boasting even to our kids. We tell our kids to get good grades in school. And I'm not trying to criticize anybody who's here. This is just the American way. We tell our kids to get good grades in school. And then when they get good grades in school, we can't wait to put the bumper sticker on the back of the car, my kid's an honor roll student at such and such a school. Or they get into a prestigious college. And we put that bumper sticker on the back of our vehicle because my kid got into this college, right? And we're boasting, and we're teaching our kids to boast. in what they've done and what they've accomplished. It's so easy to fall into this pattern. It's everywhere around us different forms. Consumerism, I wear this brand of clothing. I drink this brand of drink because I know what's what. Right? Or Self-celebration or virtue signaling, a sense of moral superiority, or some sort of ethnic or racial pride, these all fall into these patterns of self-boasting that comes from self-worth and our own accomplishments and the danger is that it it twists how we view ourselves and we take that twisted Self-perception and we bring it before God. And we can think, well, I'm a good person. I go to church. And I even dress nicely for church. And I put money in the offering plate. And I read my Bible sometimes and I pray. So I am, I am so good, surely when I get to heaven, God's going to put a great bumper sticker on my car. Daily Bible reader. Super prayer warrior. I'm gonna I'm gonna have, you know, the big room We can't do that. Our boasting robs glory from God, and it is also morally and spiritually wrong. And here's the danger of it. That our culture is dealing with. Our culture is perhaps the most boastful, outwardly and openly boastful culture that's ever been. And yet. We also deal with record levels of anxiety in our culture. Because what our boasting does is it relocates The center of our confidence, away from God and His grace, onto ourselves and our own performance. And at the end of the day, when we put our head on the pillow to go to sleep at night, we all know we are not as good as our social media profile would project We all know that we don't measure up. And yet, if our focus has been shifted off of the Lord and His grace and onto ourselves and our own performance, then we're left uncertain. Am I okay? Does God love me? Have I done enough? Do I measure up? It can become so infectious that even when we deal with a passage like we have today. And the teaching that we are justified by faith apart from works of the law, we can start thinking, okay, I know I'm justified by faith, but is my faith good enough? Is my faith strong enough? Does my faith measure up? Wait a minute, the whole point of justification by faith. apart from works of the law, is to put your hope and your confidence and your rest and your security in Christ and what he's done. It's trusting in Jesus. Not ourselves, not even our own faith. So we need to be anchored on the rock of ages. And that's exactly what today's passage can do for us if we'll hear it. Now, Paul brings into the scene here two Old Testament characters, two titans of the Old Testament faith, for a very important reason. He's writing to a mixed audience of Jews and Gentiles. And there can be a common misperception. It still persists to this day, 2,000 years later, even though the Bible says very clearly otherwise, this misperception continues to this day And that is this idea that somehow in the Old Testament, the Jewish people were saved by the law. By the works of the law, by obedience. And in the New Testament, for Christians under the gospel, we're saved by grace through faith. But there are whole sections of the New Testament that tell us that that's not true. And this is one of them. Abraham was not saved by works of the law. What works of the law did Abraham do? Well, he was circumcised. He was given the gift of circumcision, and he was circumcised. Yeah, but that didn't happen until twelve years after he was justified by faith. To understand this, I have a bit of complicated math for you. You ready? Awaken your math brain. To understand this, you just have to understand this mathematical concept that 17 comes after 15. Are we okay with that? In Genesis 15 is where we find Abraham being justified by faith. Turn with me, if you will, to Genesis 15, and we'll see this. Genesis 15, verses 1 to 6. After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abram So first of all, faith is always a response to when the word of the Lord comes to us. You, right now, are sitting in a place where the word of the Lord is coming to you. We're in the Bible. So as the word of the Lord comes to you, how are you responding to it? Faith or unbelief? After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision. Fear not, Abram, I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. But Abram said, Oh Lord God, what will you give me? For I continue childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will be my heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him. This man shall not be your heir. Your very own son shall be your heir. And he brought him outside and said, Look toward heaven. and number the stars if you are able to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. How was Abraham saved? Abraham was saved because when God made a promise to him, he said, in his heart, I believe. I trust. And what did he have to do? He had to trust the promise of God more than what his eyes could see, more than his life circumstances, more than the reality, like, hey, Abraham, get real. You're eighty years old, ninety years old. You're not gonna have any kids. But if God says a child from my very own body is going to be my heir, I'm going to believe him. I'm going to believe God's word more than what my eyes see. More than what my reason tells me, more than what the culture tells me, I'm going to believe the Word of God. That is faith. And that was credited to Abraham as righteousness. Because ultimately The fulfillment of that promise that your own heir will be your offspring, that fulfillment of that promise was ultimately kept not by Isaac, but by Jesus, who was the promised descendant of God. And so Abraham, by believing in the promise, was in that way believing in Jesus, because Jesus would be the ultimate fulfillment of that promise. Now some people say, wow, Abraham had such great faith. I I don't know that my faith is that strong. I mean, I believe, but I also doubt. Well, keep reading. If you're still in Genesis 15, keep reading with me. Verse 7, and he said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out from Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess. But he said, Oh Lord God, how am I to know that I shall possess it? What does that sound like Human? Questioning. Wondering. How am I gonna know? Now God very graciously answers Abraham if you continue reading. There's this elaborate ceremony that God goes through. We're not going to go through it right now, but He He answers Abraham. My point here though is don't think that Abraham had righteousness credited to him because he was super faith, you know, like a superhero with a big F on his chest, like, I'm super faith. No, he was a man And he believed God, and then he turned around and asked questions. And he trusted God, and then he turned around and sinned. And he followed God, and then he turned around and wondered if God was real and was really going to do what he said. I mean there's a lot of sin in Abraham's life after chapter 15, if you've read Genesis. If you haven't read it, go home and read it this afternoon Genesis 15, 6 is not the end of sin in Abraham's life, even though God saves him when he believes. D. A. Carson, great New Testament scholar, was giving a sermon on this I listened to a few weeks ago. And he gave a great illustration of justification by faith and how we can misunderstand it. He says, imagine the Israelites in Egypt. So go back in your mind's imagination, 3,500 years or so, and the Israelites are in Egypt. God has sent plagues. Darkness, frogs, locusts, gnats. He sent these plagues, and now there's the last plague that's coming. And God sends this one with notice ahead of time and with a promise and something that has to be done in response to the promise. The last plague is the death of the firstborn. And God promises anyone who will take a spotless lamb into their home And will sacrifice that lamb, and will put the blood of the lamb on the doorpost and on the lintel of their home. Anyone who does that The Avenger will pass over their house, and death will not strike. Now here's something that we sometimes miss. when we don't really read as carefully as we should. That promise was made to anyone who would sacrifice the lamb and mark their doorposts and their lintel It wasn't just for the Israelites. It was for whoever would respond to the Word of God with faith. So imagine there are two guys, two Hebrew men, and they're hearing this word that comes through Moses And they've seen the previous plagues. They don't want to see the death of their firstborn. So they take the spotless lamb into the home. They sacrifice the spotless lamb. They put the blood on the doorpost and over the lintel. And the first guy, to call him Jacob, he says, oh man, the Lord's going to bring us out of here. This is the last plague. Have you heard this the last plague? And then the Lord's bringing us out of here. This is so great. I can't wait. The other guy, let's call him Isaac. Isaac says to Jacob, are you sure? I mean, I heard the word and I believed the word and I did what the word told me to do, but I'm I'm anxious. You seem really confident. And Jacob says, yeah, I'm really confident. It's the word of the Lord. And Isaac says, oh I know it's the word of the Lord. And of course I do believe in the word of the Lord, but but I'm really I'm really nervous. What if my son dies? I just what what am I going to do? What would I do without my firstborn son? And Jacob says, Do you believe in the Word of God? He says, Well yes, of course I believe in the Word of God. Night falls. The Avenger comes. Whose house is spared Both of them. Both of them. Because it wasn't the spectacular strength of their faith, but it was the promise of God. Taken in faith, even a weak faith. And God spared them both. It is not the strength of our faith, but it is the reliability of our Savior that is the power of God for salvation. And so Abraham believes God, and it's credited him for righteousness in Genesis 15. We get to Genesis 17. You don't need to turn there, but you get to Genesis 17, it's 12 years later. And that's where God gives him the sign of circumcision. And he gets circumcised and he circumcises all the males in his household. But Isaac's not even born yet, who's he's going to be the child of promise. And when Isaac, the child of promise, is born, he then circumcises him when he's born. So get this. This is a little bit of a token out here for our Baptist-minded and our Presbyterian-minded brethren to sort of noodle on, okay? Abraham had faith and believed, and then twelve years later was circumcised. Isaac was circumcised at eight days old, and then years and years later came to faith in Jesus Christ. I'll take it one step further. Ishmael was circumcised and never came to faith. What saved them? Was it their circumcision or was it their faith It was their faith. Well then what's the point of the circumcision? The circumcision is an outward sign that points to the need for an inward change. God says, go ahead and circumcise yourselves in the flesh, but know that what you really need is to have your heart circumcised. You really need the deadness of your heart to be cut away so that you can have life. We're going to baptize little Cassidy here in a little bit. And it's not water going over her head or words being said. By an ordained minister of the gospel. Those things are not going to save her. It's the promise of God given in the covenant of grace. That her parents are believing on her behalf, I will be a God to you and to your children after you throughout their generations. And then when she gets old enough, if she professes that faith for herself that sign of baptism will be confirmed in the faith that shows that what is pictured in baptism took place And it really doesn't matter that much if the baptism happens after the change of heart or before the change of heart. It's like circumcision and that I think the normal pattern is that it should be done before, but it can also be done after, because if someone was never circumcised and they came to faith in Jesus Or they came, sorry, to faith in the covenant God of of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the Lord, if they come to faith in the Lord, they were circumcised after their faith. So it's not circumcision, it's not baptism, it's not any other external sign that ultimately matters, but it's the transformed heart and the saving faith. The other figure that Paul draws on, I'll just make brief reference to him, is King David. King David, the author of the Psalms. Lived about a thousand years after Abraham. He was circumcised as a young boy. He came to true and saving faith in the Lord. But then he committed grievous, grievous sin, horrible sin, worse than any of us have done. He committed adultery with Bathsheba And then he arranged to have Bathsheba's husband Uriah killed in battle to cover up his sin Adultery and murder and then lying it's grave sin But in Psalm 32, he celebrates the fact that it is not those who are sinless who are blessed, it is those who are forgiven. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his Sin. I spent years of my life wondering if I had sinned too much And somehow that nullified God's salvation of me. Some of it was when I was a little kid. And we went to revival services, or we went to Christian summer camp, or we went to vacation bible school, and I would pray and I would ask the Lord into my heart, probably did that a hundred times between the ages of 9 and 13. Oh Jesus, please come into my heart. Oh Jesus, please forgive me of my sin. Oh Jesus, please be my Lord and Savior. But then I would sin. I have two older brothers. It's mostly their fault. But I would sin. He's not denying it either. Okay, so I would sin and I would say, oh no, I messed up. I guess, you know, my nice clean heart that God gave me is all messed up now. I need to get saved again. And I had a period of really awful disobedience to the Lord in college I was a believer. I knew the Lord. I had even preached sermons in churches and led Bible studies and led youth group, but I just gave into the sins of the flesh and lived foolishly. And I thought, is it real? Does God still love me? Is this true? And where God took me were through these Psalms that David wrote after his sin with Bathsheba, Psalm 51 and Psalm 32, Psalm 51 to confess my sin, and Psalm 32 to get assurance. of my sin. And the Lord led me back there again and again as I questioned my salvation and doubted. And I learned slowly over time. God doesn't love me because I'm sinless or because I'm going to somehow grow to the day when I'm not sinning anymore. He loves me because he loves me because he loves me. And in love, he forgives every sin. washes it clean by the blood of Jesus, and cleanses me so that in such a way that it is is it is as if I have never sinned. One way that people teach justified is if you are justified, it's just as if I'd never sinned. Because all your sins are washed away. The righteousness of Christ covers you. And so you feel burdened by your guilt, but God has already forgiven it. Oh, wait a minute. Paul's so good at answering these objections that we'll bring up, wait a minute now. If God's already forgiven my sin, if my sins are forgiven and cleansed and covered, that's just going to lead to lawlessness. That's just going to lead to me doing whatever I want to do with my life. and acting up in terrible ways. It's going to lead to a lawless life. And surely that undermines the law that God gave, the good law. You know, the Ten Commandments. We love the Ten Commandments. They're good. Why? Is this justification by faith? Does that just throw out the law? No. Romans 3. 31, Paul says, do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. Justification by faith does not nullify the law, but it upholds the law. It does not nullify the law, but it upholds the law. How so? Because the law was never given. As a means of self-righteousness and self-justification. It's a picture of the righteous character of God. And then when we look into it as a mirror, we see how far short we fall. It shows us the righteous character of God and it shows us our sin. so that we would go to the Savior for the righteousness we need. That was always the purpose of the law. Paul says in Galatians, the law was given as a schoolmaster to lead us to Christ. And this word schoolmaster is a word in Greek, it's basically the nanny. Okay. And the nanny for uh wealthy children in the ancient Roman Empire would be in charge of discipline and behavior and all those kinds of things. And one of the things that the nanny would do is lead the child to school for his lessons and then supervise the child's homework so that it got done. And This was old school, you know, real old school, 2,000-year old school. So what do you think would happen if that child pitched a fit and didn't want to go to school? There was a rod of discipline, right? The board of education applied to the seat of learning There was the rod of discipline that that drove that child to school. And Paul says that's what the law does. The law, if we take it seriously, it hurts. Because we know that God is love, and we know that we should love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. We know we should love our neighbor as ourselves, and yet we fall short, and we're painfully aware of that, and it hurts. But it hurts so that we'll go to Jesus And when we go to Jesus, his blood cleanses us from all sin, and he assures us of God's love for us. That was always the purpose of the law. Some of the Jewish people took the law as a sort of national treasure that would set them apart as God's holy people by being circumcised. They thought, well, if I just get circumcised, that marks me as one of God's truly holy and special people. And then if I have the law. They were really good. They would take the law and they would write out the decree that the decree that they were to say, the Lord your God is one, the Lord's, and they'd write it out and they'd roll it up, they'd put it in a box, and they'd tie it to their forehead. And then they put it above the door of their house, and they put it on the gate of their city. They're like, we are circumcised and we have the law. Therefore, we are good. No. God gave the written law to the Jewish people But he wrote his moral law on the hearts of all people, Gentiles, all over the world, because he's the God of Jew and Gentile. And he saves both Jew and Gentile by faith. Look at verses 29 and 30 of chapter 3. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. The difference, by the way, of saying by faith and through faith is that Christ is the object of our faith, but he's also the means by which we come to God. So Paul's teaching us here that God is the God of Jews and Gentiles, and he justifies both by faith. He's the God of Jews and Gentiles. He justifies both by faith. What does that mean for us? It means that there's no sense of ethnic or moral or national superiority. Listen, we've had Christianity in America for a long, long time. I teach American history. I teach about the settling of Plymouth Plantation. 1620. I can say 425 years, we have had Bible-believing, gospel-believing Christianity in America. Jamestown's even older than that, but the Christianity in Jamestown was is not quite as good as the Christianity implement. I'm joking. But we've had this heritage. And and so we can look at the rest of the world, we can say, well those people over there, they don't even You know, they're Muslim people or they're Hindu people or they're the you know, they're they're they're not like us. The gospel sweeps all that away. There's one God who created heaven and earth. There's one God who made all people on earth in his image. And there's one God who is gathering together people from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. We have no room to boast In closing, there's an analogy that I that I found is very commonly used for justification. To sort of help you understand what justification by faith is like. I'm going to tell you the analogy, then I'm going to tell you why it's not sufficient. But here's the analogy. Listen and see if you can hear what why I think this is an insufficient analogy. Justification by faith is like standing before a judge after you've been proven guilty of a severe crime Instead of receiving the earned sentence, which is the wages of sin, a perfect and wealthy benefactor, Jesus, steps forward He not only pays the full price of your penalty, but the judge, God, then issues a decree declaring that you are perfectly innocent and He takes the benefactor's fabulous wealth and deposits it into your account. You did nothing on earth to earn this. You were guilty as charged. All you have to do is accept the benefactor's intervention. You didn't lift a finger to pay the fine, and you did in fact do the crime. That's a decent analogy, but it's inadequate. Why? We were guilty of a crime deserving death. We were on death row. There was no fine of money that could be drawn from a bank account. There was life that needed to be paid Jesus didn't just walk into a courtroom and pay a sum of money. He went. To the execution that we deserve. He died for us. That's how serious it is. And then he rose again. And rising again, he says, I've settled your debt. And I'm giving you my life. And justification by faith simply says, yes, I deserve death. Yes, if I don't do anything else, I'm going to stand before the judge one day, and the death sentence will be carried out on me. But it was already carried out on Jesus. I believe in him. I trust in him. Help my unbelief. And he counts for me. And he counts for me. And if that is you, then know that you are justified by faith and not by works. Know also that that gives you no ground to boast before God or before other people. Because Jesus Christ has been given to us freely, and he is our forgiveness, he is our peace, he is our righteousness from God. Do you know what this means? As an application for believers who are here today. Most of you have said yes and amen to all of this. But here's the application. If we are justified by faith in Jesus and not by our own works, then we should be, of all people, the most humble and the most thankful. All religious pride, all nationalistic pride, all moral pride has to melt away in the light of the free gift of grace, in the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ that we receive by faith. And so Christians who believe the gospel should be known worldwide as the most humble, kind, loving, forgiving, thankful, and patient people in the world. Because we woke up on home base and we didn't even go up to bat That should be our attitude. And to the extent that it's not, to the extent that we act entitled or superior or impatient or intolerant shows that we haven't really understood the gospel. gospel in here. And we've got to keep moving it until that is what flows out of our lives. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God, what wonderful love you have given to us, what wonderful salvation, what wonderful righteousness in Jesus Christ. Lord Jesus, you gave your life for us that we can be forgiven completely. May we live by faith and not boasting in ourselves. May we trust in you and not in anything we do. And may we, in faith, humbly, thank you, praise you, follow you, and share your love with the world in need. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.