Amen. That is our prayer indeed. Turn with me, please, to Isaiah 26. We are back in the book of Isaiah, chapter 26. A wonderful passage before us this morning. In the Lord's providence I had a few weeks off from preaching, one more than I was expecting to. But two weeks ago, Mike preached to us of the joys of justification and how peace with God is one of those Joys of justification. And last week John Pickens preached to us about the the security that we have in Christ. And both of those themes are very prominent. in today's passage as well. So God has God has put together his own sermon series here on peace and security by his sovereign hand. So here now God's holy word, Isaiah 26, verses 1 through 6. In that day, this song will be sung in the land of Judah. We have a strong city. He sets up salvation as walls and bulwarks. Open the gates that the righteous nation that keeps faith may enter in. You keep him in perfect peace. whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever. For the Lord God is an everlasting rock. He has humbled the inhabitants of the height, the lofty city. He lays it low, lays it low to the ground, casts it to the dust. The foot tramples it, the feet of the poor, the steps of the needy. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, this is your word. Your word of truth to your people, called by your name. Speak to us now. By your word, by your spirit. Write this word on our hearts that we might believe it, that we might live it, that we might know the peace, the security, the joy The comfort, the strength that comes from you and you alone. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. If you are a note-taking type and you are going to be following along with the outline that is provided in your bulletin, Know that I'm going to be doing things in a different order. So we are going to talk about the lofty city of verses 5 and 6 before we talk about the strong city that God has given us. So part three of the sermon is part two now. It was the best of times. It was the worst of times. One of the most famous opening lines in all of literature, the first line of Charles Dickens' best-selling novel. A tale of two cities. Here in Isaiah 26, what we have in these six verses is indeed a tale of two cities. The strong city. that is identified in verse 1, and the lofty city that is identified in verse 5. Each of which longs for peace, but only one of which actually finds it. All people everywhere long for peace. It's probably the most universal desire of the human heart is for peace. The most common wish expressed by people, especially around the holiday times coming up, what do you wish for more than anything else? Peace on earth. Right? Peace on earth. Wouldn't that be great? Back in 1955, Cy Miller and Jill Jackson wrote a song that's become a popular holiday anthem over the years. Let there be peace on earth and let it begin with me. This song has resonated with so many people for so long because we look around at the state of the world and we think, wow, could there just be peace on earth? And and if your heart is for God's people in Haiti, you know that that is a good desire. Or in Sudan, that is a good desire. or in Ukraine. Let there be peace on earth. And yet we look at our own hearts and our own minds and we realize we don't have peace. And so we say, let it begin with me. So here we have two cities pursuing peace. One is the city of God. And the other is the city of man, the city of the world. They're called here the strong city and the lofty city. But elsewhere in Scripture and throughout church history, we've understood these to be the city of God and the city of man. The song is introduced in verse 1 by saying, in that day, this song will be sung in the land of Judah. It wasn't being sung in Isaiah's day because people were trusting in an earthly Jerusalem They were trusting in an earthly Jerusalem that was surrounded by mountains and that had strong walls and towers and that was one of the most difficult cities. in the Middle East to conquer. And so they would say of themselves, we have a strong city, referring to earthly Jerusalem. But Isaiah has already foretold that Jerusalem is going to fall, and that is surely coming. While God spared Jerusalem in Isaiah's day. Later, Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonians came and they laid waste to that strong city, because it was an earthly city and it was under God's judgment. But in that day, we're told a song will be sung of a strong city that he sets up. That God is the architect and the builder of this strong city. When is that day when this song will be sung? If it's not in Isaiah's day, well, it's the day of salvation. It's the day when the Lord acts decisively to redeem his people and to establish this strong city for them This heavenly new Jerusalem, this city that has foundations, whose architect and builder is God, as we're told in the book of Hebrews, that day then began. When Jesus Christ took our sins upon himself on the cross, clearing our debt and removing God's judgment against us And then when he rose again from the dead three days later, overthrowing death and Hades forever so that he has the keys of death and Hades, and no one can snatch those keys out of his hands, just as no one can take his sheep out of his hands. That day continued on the day of Pentecost when Jesus, in keeping his promise, poured out the Holy Spirit to be the indwelling helper and strength of every believer, and our down payment on our eternal inheritance which is kept in heaven for us. And that day has continued ever since and will continue until that day when this strong city becomes our eternal reality as we become, together with all believers, the perfected and glorious New Jerusalem, living in the new heavens and the new earth forever. What about the lofty city? When did the lofty city have its start? It goes back a little farther. It goes back to a garden. When Adam and Eve thought that they could provide for themselves something that God had withheld from them. when they decided that it was better to trust a talking serpent than to trust the God who had made them in his image. And they thought that God was holding out on them, and they thought that they could get something for themselves that God did not want to give them, and so they took, and so they ate. And so they decided that they would establish for themselves their own city. And they were kicked out of the garden. Their son Cain, who killed his brother Abel, established the first human city, and he named it in honor of his son Enoch. And that is the history and the heritage of the lofty city, so-called, because it is all about man exalting himself. We think that somehow no one else is going to look out for us, and so we better look out for ourselves, and the lofty city pretends to be safe and secure. Sometimes people who desire world peace, they look back on a particular period in history and they will say that it is the golden age of human peace The longest period of peace and stability. It's called the Pax Romana or the Roman peace. And it lasted for about 200 years. And what they mean by that is that around the Mediterranean world, which includes the world of Israel, around the Mediterranean world there were no major wars. to divide humanity for about 200 years from 27 BC when Augustine became the first Emperor of Rome until about 180 A. D. However, this Pax Romana was not all It's cracked up to be and not all that people sometimes remember because Rome was continually fighting battles on their frontiers against foreign invaders, but also subjugated people were enslaved. And the Roman Empire had millions of slaves. They were built. The glories of Rome were built by the hands of slaves. Women were exploited and abused as temple prostitutes for various pagan gods. Human life was not held in high regard as hundreds of thousands of people were killed in gladiatorial games and deadly chariot races and Even historical reenactments of great Roman battles that were only really good if people were actually killed during the reenactments. Historians estimate that the Roman Empire may have killed between two and three million people for the entertainment of the masses, and boy did the masses crowd in to be so entertained. Tens of thousands of people would crowd into the Coliseum and other arenas around the Roman Empire to watch human beings be slaughtered. Is that really peace? Is that some golden age? No. Because whenever the world promises peace, it's always built on a foundation of lies, of selfishness. And so if you study human history and if you look around and really study the world around you, you will understand why Isaiah 26, verses 5 and 6 so strongly condemns this lofty city. For he has humbled the inhabitants of the height, the lofty city. He lays it low, lays it low to the ground, casts it to the dust The foot tramples it, the feet of the poor, the steps of the needy. Why trampled by the poor and the needy? Because that's always who the lofty city builds themselves upon and tramples upon. And so turnabout is fair play. As Psalm 49 tells us twice, man in his pomp, yet without understanding, is like the beasts that perish. And that is perhaps the best description for the lofty city is bestial, a city of cruelty, arrogance, greed, and exploitation. It deserves and it receives God's justice. Judgment. But we have been given a much better city A strong city. It is strong because we did not build it. Hebrews 11 tells us of Abraham that he went out from his father's house and he lived in tents as a nomad because he was looking forward to this city. that has foundations whose designer and builder is God. We have a strong city. He sets up salvation as walls and bulwarks. Open the gates. that the righteous nation that keeps faith may enter in. You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever, for the Lord God is an everlasting rock. Notice the definitive confidence of this statement. We have a strong city. It is not we are building a strong city. It is not we hope one day to create a strong city. We already have it. And he has set it up. There are three features of the city that are highlighted here in these verses. First, the walls and the bulwarks of the city are salvation. Second, the gates of the city are open to the righteous nation that keeps faith. And third, inside the city, is an everlasting and absolutely trustworthy rock. And God keeps in perfect peace the residents of the city who stay their minds on him. hiding themselves in the everlasting rock. We're going to go into these three aspects of the city, but before we do that, I want to make sure we don't miss What is very clear, and what is the main point of this passage? So I'm going to ask you a series of questions. And I would like you all to answer together in confident unison, and I guarantee you you know the answers to these questions. Okay? So first we talk about the walls and the bulwarks of the city, our salvation. Who is our salvation? Who is our salvation? Jesus. Okay. And then the gates. Who is the gate or the door? Okay. And then who is the everlasting rock of ages, the rock of our salvation? Right. Jesus is the strength of the city. Jesus is the access to the city. And Jesus is the peaceful refuge inside the strong city of God. And so this, don't miss it, is all about what it means to belong to Jesus, to be part of his people, his body, his flock, his city, and then to set our minds on him and to trust in him. So first, the walls and the bulwarks of salvation. God so much doesn't want us to miss the fact that Jesus is our salvation, that his very name is salvation. And so if you were to look at this in Hebrew, the last word of verse one is Yeshua, salvation. It's the name of Jesus. The strength and defense of the city of God, hear this. The strength and defense of the city of God is not in our size. our popularity, our social media influence, our political clout, our intelligent defense of the gospel or any other measurable human factor, the walls and the bulwarks of the Holy City are Jesus Himself and His finished work of salvation And if you are in the city of God, surrounded by the walls of the salvation of Jesus, you are secure no matter how you feel. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. Jesus lived a perfect, sinless life to earn, to fulfill a perfect righteousness for us. He died in our place on the cross to take all of our sin upon himself. to cleanse us of every stain of sin and to satisfy the just wrath of God. And then he rose again and he defeated death and Hades forever He will never be dead again, and those who live and believe in him shall never die. That's what he told Mary at the tomb of Lazarus. The work of salvation is finished. We are secure in Jesus if we belong to Him. We do not need to live in fear. The walls of God's city will hold, they will not be shaken. But how do we get into this city? How do we know we're in this secure place? Well, you enter a city by its gate. We're told the gates of God's city are opened, so that the righteous nation that keeps faith may enter in. Now you may read that at first glance, and you might say, oh no I'm not righteous and I'm not faithful. So I guess I'm not in. But I don't think that means what you think it means. So let's look more carefully at it. There is a righteous nation. A people who are righteous. But not because they are righteous in themselves, but because God has made them righteous, with a righteousness not of their own. How are we made righteous before God? By faith in Jesus Christ. The righteous nation are those who keep faith, who trust in Jesus Christ. In other words, this statement is not a statement. That says, only really good people who never mess up can come into this city. But rather it is an Old Testament statement of the doctrine of justification by faith The righteous nation are those who keep faith, who trust in Jesus Christ, enter into the gate. And Jesus himself taught us about this so that we would know In John chapter 10, this is what he says. Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. Follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture. It's the simple gospel call. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved. Whereas Jesus said in Matthew 11, come to me, all who are labored and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. If you want the true and eternal security of being in God's city, surrounded by the walls of salvation, the only way to enter in is by faith in Jesus. Kids and adults. The only way to enter in is not just by coming to church on Sunday morning and showing up. and sitting through the pastor's long sermon. It's not to put a certain amount of money in the plate, or even to show up early and help us set up, or stay behind and help us stack the chairs, although we hope that you will do that. It's through Jesus. It's through believing in Jesus that you enter the real Holy City. Now, if you enter the Holy City, you are part of God's people. You are one with everyone else who is in the Holy City. And so you will have a deep desire to gather together with God's people and worship him together and enjoy him together. But you need to trust in Jesus and not yourself. Once we're in the city Having trusted Jesus and being kept by his salvation, then we can experience true peace. You will keep him in perfect peace In the Hebrew, that is peace, peace. Shalom, shalom. It's a doubling of peace. You will keep him in shalom, shalom. And shalom is not just God's not angry at me anymore. That's the kind of peace that everybody in the city has. But those whose mind is stayed on the Lord, on Jehovah, on Yahweh, on Jesus Himself, those whose mind is stayed on him receive Shalom shalom, a a peace of mind, a well-being, a satisfaction, a contentment, and a joy that abides. Why? Because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever, for the Lord God is an everlasting rock. These verses carry a message only for those who are in the city. And here's the truth behind these verses. There are many who have entered into the Holy City and they're in the Holy City, but they don't have peace. They have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, but they don't experience the perfect peace that is promised here in verse 3. Why not? How can you be perfectly secure and truly saved and yet not have perfect peace? How does that happen? Well, sometimes In our talking about the church, we will make a distinction between the visible church and the invisible church. And here, the true city of God, that you enter into by faith in Jesus Christ, and where you are actually kept secure by the strong walls of salvation in Jesus, this is the invisible church. It doesn't have a street address. Okay? Although members of it gather together for worship. But just stick with me for a minute in this imagery of the strong city that we've been given. And we understand that if this strong city exists in the midst of a fallen and hostile world, we understand that the walls, strong and absolutely secure, are nonetheless invisible. We don't see them. Right? You don't walk around with a wall around you everywhere you go. You know, it would make it rather inconvenient to get in and out of your car. There's an invisible wall. that surrounds God's true church. Well, that means, among other things, that there are many people who are safe inside the walls, but who feel insecure because they look and they see the hostile, God-hating world all around them and they feel weak and vulnerable and anxious. It also means that there are many people who are just outside the strong holy city who think they are in the city. Perhaps they hear the gospel being proclaimed. Perhaps they hear the praises of God being sung and they mix in with the people of God, but they are not really inside. The city walls, because although they're close enough to hear everything, they are not trusting in Jesus. They are not trusting in Jesus So, how can you know whether you're just near the city or in the city, whether you're just hearing what other people believe or believing it yourself? There's only one way, and that is to trust in Jesus. Trust in Jesus. And if you're in the city, and you know you're in the city, and you know your salvation is secure in Christ, but you're just lacking in Peace. How can you have the peace promise? The peace peace? Yes. Trust in Jesus. Trust in Jesus. You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you Every believer has peace with God, but not every believer experiences the peace of God. Because not every believer has his mind fixed on Jesus. We may have our mind fixed on our job. Our community. Our nation. Politics. Sports. But we need to have our minds stayed on Jesus Years after Isaiah's ministry, the prophet Jeremiah would condemn the false prophets of his day. In chapter 6 and chapter 8 of Jeremiah, he says, They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, peace, peace, when there is no peace. These false prophets were peddling a cheap piece, or as German theologian and Pastor Dietrich Bahnhoffer would say, a cheap grace. But cheap grace. What does that look like to peddle peace, peace when there is no peace? It is, I think, one of the ways it's so popular in our society is to encourage people to look at themselves and trust in themselves. It looks like, oh, it's okay. You're a good person. You're just being too hard on yourself. And that's wrong. Anyone who's trying to get you to look at you And have a more positive self-image or positive self-affirmation is pointing you exactly in the wrong direction. We need to look to Jesus. us. And let me give you this. Philippians 4, verses 4 through 9. This is the best place that I can think of for application for today's passage. What does it mean to have our mind state on him and to trust in him? Well, Paul writes this from prison. From prison, chained up to a Roman soldier day and night, having been unjustly imprisoned for over three years He writes this. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Verse 5, let your reasonableness be made known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable. If there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. Verse 7, the promise is the peace of God will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. And then verse 9, the promise is the God of peace will be with you. So let's just briefly walk through this practical gospel-rich instruction from the Apostle Paul. He begins with a command, rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Our mindset, at all times, in every circumstance, no matter what we're going through Should always be, and can always be, and must always be, to rejoice in the Lord. You may be in a place where you can't rejoice in your circumstances But you can always rejoice in the Lord. You may be in a place where you can't rejoice in your own mindset because your head is just spinning, but you can rejoice in the Lord. And it really doesn't have anything to do with your circumstances. Like I said, Paul wrote this from Roman imprisonment. Nineteen hundred years later, Betsy Tenboom would teach her sister Corey to give thanks and rejoice in the Lord while in a Nazi German concentration camp And yet her sister Corey testifies that she was as content there as she was anywhere in the world because what she lived for was the glory of God and to share the gospel with others. The Puritan theologian John Owen had eleven children, ten of whom died in infancy One daughter survived to adulthood, married, and shortly thereafter died of consumption. He outlived all eleven of his children. And yet, he wrote extensively on communion with God and the glory of Christ. Listen to what John Owen said. We are never nearer Christ. Than when we find ourselves lost in a holy amazement at His unspeakable love And then he says this, this is really good. A steady view of the glory of Christ in his person, grace, and office, through faith, or a constant, lively exercise of faith on him, according as he is revealed unto us in the Scripture. is the only effectual way to obtain a revival from under our spiritual decays and such supplies of grace as shall make us flourish and fruitful even. In old age. Only by focusing on Christ. Only by looking at how He is revealed in Scripture and rejoicing in Him. We rejoice in the Lord always, and then we pray to God about everything always, and then we fix our minds on the good and beautiful and true things that God has given to us. Realizing that if anything is good and beautiful and true, it is a gift from God and we rejoice in Him through those things We actively trust him. We look to him. We give thanks to him. We rejoice in him. We pour out our hearts to him in prayer. We think about him and his good gifts. We trust in him at all times. This is the key to the peace we all need, but never find in the world or in ourselves. But we do find it in the one who is, the everlasting rock. You keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever, for the Lord God is an everlasting rock. You're already in the city. You're already safe from judgment. Your place is secure. But in that city is an everlasting rock. The rock of God, which First Corinthians ten, Paul tells us The rock that followed the Israelites through their wilderness journeys, from which living water flowed to satisfy their thirst, that rock was Christ. Rock provides you shade from overwhelming heat, shelter from attacks of the enemy. And if it's the rock of Christ, refreshment. Because Jesus said, whoever believes in me, out of his heart will flow streams of living water, just as they flowed from that rock. In the wilderness. Jesus is our shelter. Jesus is our protection. Jesus is the source of our soul's satisfaction. When we are overwhelmed. What does the psalmist say? When my heart is overwhelmed. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I. My heart gets overwhelmed Because the troubles I face are bigger than I am. But they're not bigger than Jesus. The troubles I face sometimes are stronger than I am, but they're not stronger than Jesus The absolute soul-sucking arid dryness of this world can make me so thirsty because there's no refreshment. There are times, listen, I don't know if you had this experience, but there are times when I just want to relax at the end of a long day. And so I turn on the television. Never before in the history of the world have we had so much available to us to watch at an instant. And there's nothing. Can I get an amen? The world has nothing to offer us But the everlasting rock is a never failing stream of refreshment to our souls. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, fix our minds on Jesus When we are prone to wander, bring us back to the Rock of Ages When our hearts are overwhelmed, lead us to the rock who is higher than we are, stronger than we are, and a never-failing source of refreshment for our souls. Even now, as we prepare to partake of the Lord's Supper, where we will eat and drink Christ to our souls, we pray that you would refresh us. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.