Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Ben Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and here we are getting to know our Savior better as we spend time in the Gospels. Five days a week. We've been at this for 38 weeks now, 39 weeks, and uh it's been a great study. Hope it's been beneficial to you. And so today we're in John 18, verses 28 to 40, and we're going to be asking the question, what did Jesus mean when he said, My kingdom is not of this world? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and for your power and for your son. Lord Jesus, you are King of Kings and Lord of Lords. You sit enthroned at the right hand of the Majesty on high. and all power is subject to you, and you will reign until you have put all enemies under your feet. Teach us now, Holy Spirit, that we might know more about our King, Jesus, and the nature of His kingdom. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. John 18, 28-40. Then they led Jesus from the house of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was early morning. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters, so that they would not be defiled, but could eat the Passover. So Pilate went outside to them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man? They answered him, If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law. The Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death. This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So Pilate entered his headquarters again, and called Jesus, and said to him, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus answered, Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom. Is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my followers, my servants, would have been fighting that I might not be delivered over to the Jews, but my kingdom is not from the world. So Pilate said to him, So you are a king. Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. Pilate said to him. What is truth? And he after he said this, he went back inside to the Jews and told them, I find no guilt in him. But you have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover, so do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? They cried out again, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber Of all the things that Jesus said in his earthly ministry, perhaps none has been more neglected, misunderstood, improperly applied than His statement here before Pontius Pilate, where he said, My kingdom is not of this world. What did this mean? Well, even during his own lifetime, people were trying to recruit Jesus to be their king, king for them, king of their cause, king of their agenda They wanted to make him king because they could they could get free meals from him. After he fed the five thousand, they wanted to make him king. They wanted to make him king because they saw his power over demons and over nature and they thought he could have the power to overthrow Rome. And so they wanted him to be king, their king, but their king to accomplish a very worldly, a very earthly agenda. Two brothers came to Jesus, remember, during his earthly ministry and said, We want you to settle our inheritance for us. What did they want? They wanted Jesus to serve their selfish desires for something of this world. These are petty worldly disputes. They are things that are temporary. They are things that should not have as high and an important place in our heart as they do. And so and Jesus is not interested in that. Jesus goes before Pontius Pilate to be examined as to whether or not he was a threat to take over the Roman Empire Jesus did not want to rule as a Roman Emperor. It actually would have been a major demotion for him to be the emperor of Rome, because he was destined to sit at the right hand of God the Father as King of all kings. and Lord of all lords. Jesus' kingdom is not of this world. It transcends all earthly powers. Jesus is exalted at the right hand of God. Jesus is not subject to, not committed to, not interested in advancing earthly political agendas. And specifically what he said was, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not of this world. Sometimes Christians are tempted to enroll Jesus in a an of this world agenda when it's like they think they're going to be defeated or they think they're going to be removed from having political power or they think they're going to be threatened by the powers that be. And so they want to fight. And they want to, you know, lead some sort of revolution or some sort of takeover. They want to grab power, earthly power for themselves. and for their friends and supporters and they want Jesus to sort of rally behind this cause and support them in it. And that is specifically what he said he wasn't going to do. He said his servants don't fight. To prevent political, judicial defeat, earthly defeat. Remember when Peter swung his sword and cut off the right ear of Alchus because he he wanted to fight? He was willing to die sword swinging. But what Jesus said was, put away your sword. And then he healed Malchus, who I think later became his follower, and who inherited eternal life. Jesus has a kingdom. That overcomes everything in this world. Political defeat does not stop the kingdom of God. Death does not stop the kingdom of God. Injustice does not stop the kingdom of God. Genocide does not stop the kingdom of God It continues to advance. It continues to take over hearts and lives and to transform people and to bring us into eternal life If a Christian is put on trial for their Christian faith and they lose and they're condemned to death, they're just ushered into glory, and in the resurrection they will sit with Jesus and they will judge those who executed them. This is the enduring and surpassing nature of the kingdom of God, which is why I think the number one reason why Christians try to enlist Jesus in our petty earthly political battles, and they may seem monumentally important, but they really are petty in the light of eternity because The reason why we do it, the reason why we enlist, try to enlist Jesus and make his kingdom a king of this world is because we don't believe. His promises, we don't believe the nature of his kingdom, we don't believe in eternal spiritual realities. We claim too much. To the fading pleasures and the limited power that this world offers. Political power can be used to coerce an outcome temporarily. But spiritual power can be used to transform lives eternally. Do we want to trade in? The ability to transform lives eternally through the preaching of the gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit and faith in Jesus Christ for a political outcome that would get us a temporary solution to a temporary problem. This is not smart. It's not faithful. It's not wise. It's not God honoring. And so we need to repent of having such a cheap regard for the promises of God, such a cheap regard for the kingdom of Jesus, such a cheap regard. for the nature of his eternal spiritual promises and the unshakable nature of his kingdom. Jesus' kingdom is the one kingdom that cannot be shaken. The Roman Empire, that was the largest empire that the world had ever seen and ruled longer than any other empire in global history. It's dust. It's gone. It's people talk about it, people make movies about it, people remember it, but it's been gone for for Centuries. Napoleon's Empire, the Holy Roman Empire, the British Empire, the Soviet Empire. They're gone, gone, gone, dusted, dusted, dusted. So will the American Empire. It will be gone and dusted. We need to have our eyes. on eternal realities, on spiritual realities, we need to realize that the gospel is a power greater than anything this world could offer. And we need to never Never compromise our witness. Never compromise our loyalty to King Jesus for the sake of a political cause and never think that we can enroll Jesus. to somehow sign off on, stamp off on, and use his divine power to validate an earthly political agenda, get some human being into office, get some some thing done. in a temporary way. He will accomplish what he's going to accomplish. Now this isn't a call to passivity. This isn't a call to say, well, we should just hide in our churches and sing our hymns. and not engage the culture. No, we absolutely should engage the culture, but with the gospel and with the truth claims of Jesus Christ, not with politics. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are eternal. You are almighty. You are perfect. You are unwavering. You are unfailing. Lord Jesus, your kingdom is not of this world, because your kingdom is over and above and beyond this world and will outlast this world. May we not settle. Lord Jesus, you would not accept the crown of Emperor of Rome because it would be such a step down and such a settling for the lesser. Help us not to settle for the lesser when we've been given the greater in a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And that ten billion years from now will be bigger, stronger, greater than anything ever has been or ever will be. Beyond our imagination or the things that you have promised for us. Help us to live for those things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional study was a blessing to you, and I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Do have a blessed day in the Lord, a day living for His kingdom.