Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is so good to be with you here on our fourth day of our 30 ninth week together. We're coming to the end of our time in the Gospels. Just a couple more weeks left as we got a few more chapters to go. We're in John 19 today, looking at verses 17 to 27. I've got a nice hot cup of tea on this uh November day. Today we're looking at this question, why was King of the Jews Nailed to Jesus' cross. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and your faithfulness to us. You are unfailingly good and faithful. Your love is our life. We pray that you would teach us today from your word and show us more of our Savior, that we might follow him more closely. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Alright, John nineteen verses seventeen to twenty-seven. So they took Jesus, and he went out bearing his own cross to the place called the place of the s of a skull. Which in Aramaic is called Gogotha. There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but rather this man said, I am King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier, also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless. woven in one piece from top to bottom. So they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, to see whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the scripture, which says, They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. So the soldiers did these things. But standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold, your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold, your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. Well, we saw yesterday that Pontius Pilate, who was given authority to crucify Jesus by God Himself. Had washed his hands of Jesus. He had declared him innocent of all treason and rebellion. He said very clearly in verse 6, I find no guilt in him. But Pilate, being a politician, was cowardly and decided to pacify the Jewish leadership and give them what they wanted, the death of Jesus. Interestingly, once Pilate decides to give in to their demands, he then starts consistently referring to Jesus as the King of the Jews. When he presents Jesus to the crowd one final time, he says, Behold your king, and then he asks them, Shall I crucify your king? To this question, all the chief priests and the and the people answered, We have no king but Caesar. In the end, when Jesus was hung on the cross, Pilate even ordered this inscription to be placed there. Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews. So why? What was Pilate thinking? Why did he do it? Did he suddenly change his mind and think that Jesus was trying to lead a Jewish uprising against Rome? No, it doesn't seem like he did, but rather it seems like Pilate was trying to lay the blame for Jesus' death at the feet of the Jews. while at the same time mocking them for having their king crucified. He wants no part of this. Unfortunately, history has stuck it with him because he was the legal authority there. But he once King of the Jews means this is your fault. This is a Jewish thing. And also how foolish of you to crucify your own king. But you know, God is also at work here. And so there's a more important reason why King of the Jews was written on the cross, because it was true. Because God wanted it proclaimed there publicly in three languages so that everyone who passed by would know it. It was in Aramaic. which was kind of the common language of the Jewish people. It was in Latin, which was the official language of Roman governance. And it was in Greek, which was the trade language used throughout the Roman Empire So everybody knew a little bit of Latin because that's what government pronouncements were made in. Everybody generally spoke Aramaic because they were Hebrew, but all of the visitors from outside of the Jewish people, so the Roman soldiers and visiting dignitaries and everything, they would have spoken Greek. And so this is to signify. That Jesus is King of the Jews, Son of David, and yet his kingship has worldwide significance. Jesus was not just the King of the Jews, but he hung on the cross as the King of the Jews, and he hung on the cross to pay for the sins of God's people as their king, dying in their place. Part of what qualified him to hang on the cross in the place of God's people was his position as their king, so he could be their representative. And yet he's not just hanging there for the sins of his Jewish people. He's paying for the sins of all of God's people from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation around the world. So the sign is very specific to his office but it's universal in his proclamation. It also connects him back to David, who was A king, the first king of Israel from the tribe of Judah. So he was the first king of the Jews to be king of Israel. And he was also the one to whom God gave the covenant promise that one of your descendants will be king forever. And he's also the one who wrote Psalm 22, which gives us a graphic description of crucifixion. So by having the sign there, King of the Jews, it connects Jesus to the Davidic dynasty, to the Davidic promises, and also to the Davidic Psalms, which are ultimately fulfilled in Jesus as well. So what does it mean for us? Well, Jesus hung on the cross as a king to represent, to stand in the place of his people. So the question you need to ask yourself is this. Is Jesus your King? Did he hang there for your sins? Will you come by faith to the foot of the cross and kneel before your king? And thank him for taking your sins upon himself and receive there the forgiveness that flows from his wounds. Let's pray. Father, thank you for giving your son. Lord Jesus, thank you for laying down your life. Holy Spirit, thank you for drawing our hearts to Jesus, our Savior We pray that you would be with us, be our king, be our God, be our representative, be our righteousness, be our peace. And that we would bow the knee and bow the heart and bow the life that you the life that you've given us in humble submission and obedience to you, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today was a blessing to you. I hope you'll join me again tomorrow. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.