Good morning and welcome to our devotionals in the Heidelberg Catechism. I'm Pastor Jason. Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our second day of our second week, and we're looking at the third question of the Heidelberg Catechism as we move from guilt. through grace to gratitude. And today we're going to be focusing on that first step, and that is the step of guilt. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God, thank you for the time that we have together to study your word so that we can be grounded firmly in the gospel, and we can be growing rightly for your glory. Teach us we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, let's look at our third catechism question. But first, before we do that, let's review what we learned last time in our second catechism question. What do you need to know in order to live and die in the joy of this comfort? First, how great my sins and misery are. That's guilt. Second, how I am delivered from all my sins and misery, that's grace. And third, how I am to be thankful to God for such deliverance that is So in the light of that, the first thing we need to know is how great my sins and misery are. And so the question then is, from where do you know your sins and misery? Where where do we get this real knowledge of our guilt that is accurate and true? You know, there's false guilt. There's lots of people who beat themselves up all the time and who say, woe is me, I'm just a terrible failure and I'm no good to anybody and I can't ever measure up. And a lot of that is false guilt mixed in with the truth. We don't want to start off with a guilt. that's sort of mixed, right? Some of it accurate because we do sin and we're aware of our sin, but some of it really just kind of self-pitying or self-loathing or expectations that are placed by the world. or by our own ego. You know, so we need to get clarity. We need to get clarity and make sure we're dealing with the actual real guilt that we have. How do we get that? Put it simply, we get it from the law of God. The law of God is given to us to show us our true guilt. Where do we see this in Scripture? Well, we see it in Romans. Romans 1 19 to 20 says, now we know that whatever the law speaks. Sorry, this is the wrong reference. Let me make a fix. Romans 3, 19 to 20 says, Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped. and the whole world may be held accountable to God. For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight since Through the law comes knowledge of sin. What does the law do? It gives us a knowledge of our sin. It's not given to us to save us. It's given to us to shut our mouths before God. Because we're accountable to God, and we're accountable to God under the terms of his law. And so through the law comes the knowledge of sin. And then a passage that we just heard about this past Sunday just preached on it at Forest Hill. Romans 5. 20. Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. So we get from guilt to grace right here. The law came in to increase the trespass. The law tells us what our sin is. So we might think, well, I'm a pretty good person. I haven't killed anybody. The law says, well, if you just covet. Your neighbor's possessions. You're guilty of breaking the law because God says you shall not covet. Wow. If you've ever lied. Especially if you've gossiped about someone passing on information that you didn't know it was true or not, you've broken the law because the law says, do not bear false witness against your neighbor. Wow. And then if we take seriously what Jesus said about the law in the Sermon on the Mount, he said that if you look at a woman with lustful intent, you've already committed adultery in your heart. And then he said, if you hate someone You've already murdered them in your heart. So the law is not just an external standard. It also is about the motives of our heart. We can sin in our motives. As well as in our actions, in the inner desires of our heart that we might not follow through on because we don't want to get caught, we don't get in trouble, but the desire is still there, and that is sin. Sinful desires, sinful thoughts, sinful words, sinful habits. The law convicts us of those things, and that's why sin increases. Law comes in to increase the trespass because it exposes all these areas of life where we weren't even thinking that we were guilty. But God says, nope, you're guilty of that, you're guilty of that, you're guilty of that. Sin increases. But grace abounds. All the more. But that's what Romans one one Romans tells us about the law. We also get some good insight about the role of the law from Galatians Galatians chapter two, verses fifteen to sixteen says, We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners, yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Jesus Christ in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law. Because by works of the law, no one will be justified. See, the law is not given to save us, the law is given to clarify. and confirm our sin and our misery. And finally, Galatians 3, verses 10 to 12, for all who rely on works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, Cursed be every one who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law, and do them. Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law, for the righteous shall live by faith, but the law is not. of faith. The law is not what saves. The law is not a pathway to justification. It is only a pathway to condemnation. Because it shows us how guilty we are. So again, back to our catechism question. From where do you know your sins and misery? With truth, with accuracy. You know it from the law of God And if we're serious and we read the law of God as a mirror held up to us to show us what we're really like, it's the character of God in written form. It's the standard of God clarified for us. And if we look at it, we will see we are sinful and we are miserable because we know that we cannot save ourselves. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we need to be convicted of our sin by the law so that we will give up. Trying to save ourselves. We will realize we are sinful and we are miserable and we need a savior. So we cry out to you for that. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. The hymn that comes to mind when I think of Heidelberg Catechism No. 3 is one of my favorites. It's not a super popular hymn like last time we had Amazing Grace, probably the most popular hymn in the world. This one's more obscure. But it's brilliant in teaching us how we are not saved, right? Not what my hands have done can save my guilty soul. I will be wrong. I will be able to I mean I know you I pray all God to be honest. And with my God, I always pray. I praise God Grace, I was in true and I He calls me in my call, my God, my call, my life I for be called me, I will be caught before