Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, our 946th day together in the Word of God. Brings us back to the book of Lamentations again. Lamentations chapter 2. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is truth. Powerful, beautiful, compelling, convicting, by the power of your Holy Spirit, transforming. We pray that your word would do its work by your spirit in our lives today in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Lamentations chapter 2 How the Lord in his anger has set the daughter of Zion under a cloud He has cast down from heaven to earth the splendor of Israel. He has not remembered his footstool in the day of his anger. The Lord has swallowed up without mercy all the habitations of Jacob. In his wrath he has broken down the strongholds of the daughter of Zion He has brought down to the ground in dishonor the kingdom and its rulers. He has cut down in fierce anger all the might of Israel. He has withdrawn from them his right hand. in the face of the enemy. He has burned like a flaming fire in Jacob, consuming all around. He has bent his bow like an enemy. with his right hand set like a foe, and he has killed all who were delightful in our eyes. In the tent of the daughter of Zion he has poured out his fury like fire. The Lord has become like an enemy. He has swallowed up Israel He has swallowed up all its palaces. He has laid in ruin its strongholds. And he has multiplied in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation. He has laid waste his booth like a garden, laid in ruins his meeting place. The Lord made Zion forget. Festival and Sabbath, and in his fierce indignation has spurned king and priest The Lord has scorned his altar, disowned his sanctuary, he has delivered into the hand of the enemy the walls of her palaces. They raised a clamor in the house of the Lord as on the day of festival The Lord determined to lay in ruins the wall of the daughter of Zion. He stretched out the measuring line. He did not restrain his hand from destroying. He caused rampart and wall to lament. They languished together Her gates have sunk into the ground. He has ruined and broken her bars. Her kings and princes are among the nations. The law is no more And her prophets find no vision from the Lord. The elders of the daughter of Zion sit on the ground in silence. They have thrown dust on their heads and put on sackcloth, the young women of Jerusalem have bowed their heads to the ground. My eyes are spent with weeping My stomach churns. My bile is poured out to the ground because of the destruction of the daughter of my people, because infants and babies faint. in the streets of the city. They cry to their mothers, Where is bread and wine? as they faint like a wounded man in the streets of the city and their life is poured out on their mother's bosom. What can I say for you? To what compare you, O daughter of Jerusalem What can I liken to you that I may comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For your ruin is vast as the sea. Who can heal you Your prophets have seen for you false and deceptive visions. They have not exposed your iniquity to restore your fortunes. But have seen for you oracles that are false and misleading. All who pass along the way clap their hands at you They hiss and wag their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem. Is this the city that was called the perfection of beauty, the joy of all the earth? All your enemies rail against you. They hiss. They gnash their teeth They cry. We have swallowed her. Ah, this is the day we longed for. Now we have it. We see it The Lord has done what he purposed. He has carried out his word, which he commanded long ago. He has thrown down without pity. He has made the enemy rejoice over you and exalted the might of your foes. Their heart cried to the Lord, O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears stream down like a torrent day and night Give yourself no rest, and your eyes no respite. Arise. Cry out in the night. At the beginning of the night, watches. Pour out your heart like water before the presence of the Lord. Lift your hands to Him for the lives of your children who faint for hunger at the head of every street. Look, O Lord, and see With whom have you dealt thus? Should women eat the fruit of their womb, the children of their tender care? Should priest and prophet be killed in the sanctuary of the Lord, in the dust of the streets lie the young and the old. My young women and my young men have fallen by the sword You have killed them in the day of your anger, slaughtering without pity. You summoned, as if to a festival day, my terrors on every side And on the day of the anger of the Lord, no one escaped or survived. Those whom I held and raised, my enemies. destroyed. It's powerful. Here we have a very different tone from chapter one. It's more Grief is poured out toward the Lord directly. And about the Lord So again, we go from talking about the Lord to talking to the Lord, and that's sort of the flow of the whole of Lamentations, talking about what the Lord has done to talking to the Lord, talking about uh the disaster, talking to the Lord about the disaster. And that's very often how it works in our lives. We we have um we have grief and and at first it's all the impossible to pray. Our minds are just so cluttered and so distracted. And so sometimes we have to we have to get it out. And then we can focus enough to be able to pray. Here, one of the big challenge that I see in Lamentations 2 is, of course, Babylon. Is morally responsible for their actions. And as we saw at the end of Jeremiah, the last prophecy from the prophet Jeremiah in chapter 51 that we were in a few days ago. There's a very strong condemnation of Babylon and a prediction that Babylon will fall because of what Babylon has done. And yet here in Lamentations 2, it's the Lord who has done it. Very clearly, Babylon's not even mentioned in Lamentations 2. It's the Lord who has done all this. So, which is it? And the answer, of course, is both. Yes. It's the Lord's doing. It's the Lord's judgment. The Lord's anger. The Lord's just wrath against his people for their idolatry. It's the Lord's punishment. Even treating his people as if they are his enemy, swallowing up mercy. breaking down in wrath. And yet it was Babylon who was the instrument of the Lord, and yet in such a way that Babylon is also responsible because Babylon acted freely of their own accord. and they bear the responsibility for their actions. This is what we call compatibilism, is the really technical term for it. There's a compatibility between the sovereignty of God and the responsibility of humans. They are both at work Now, ultimately, the Lord accomplishes what the Lord has decreed and what he has willed. But people are responsible, and people act freely according to their own Now we know from other passages of scripture that even when the Lord was carrying out this sentence of wrath and judgment against Jerusalem, he did still care for them. We'll see this when we get to chapter 3. He did still care for them. It wasn't completely without pity and without mercy. He did spare some people who were left to live in the land. He did make sure that the land would be cultivated and crops grown. He did send people into exile where they would be cared for and where they could be an influence. So he is remembering his promises. That's why one prayer that Scripture teaches us to pray is in judgment, remember mercy. Oh Lord, in judgment, remember mercy. I pray that sometimes for America. And for the church in America, I think I think we're under judgment from God for our idolatry and our worldliness. But my prayer is, O Lord, in judgment, remember mercy And here the lament comes from a heart that is broken because it doesn't seem like the Lord has remembered mercy, but he's only treating Israel as an enemy. enemy. We're also dealing with the mocking of uh those who come by and make fun of Jerusalem in verse 15, all who pass along the way clap their hands at you, they hiss and wag their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem Is this the city that was called the perfection of beauty, the joy of all the earth? It's interesting. This is a quote from Psalm 48. So we know that Psalm 48 was well known and sung repeatedly in the temple for hundreds of years. It was known to Israel's neighbors So now they use the very word of God, Psalm 48, the joyful praise, as a mocking. It's one of the things the world likes to do against God's people. State the promises of God or the events of redemptive history. or the purposes of God or the character of God, and throw it back on our faces in mockery when they think they have the upper hand. All your enemies rail against you, they hiss, they gnash your teeth, they cry, we've swallowed her. Now is the day we've longed for, now we see it. What they don't realize is that it is actually the Lord who's working. See, in the typical mindset of the ancient Near East, in the typical mindset of the culture of the day, They would have said, well, Yahweh, the God of Israel, lost. He lost the battle against the gods of the Babylonians. And that's why Israel was defeated. So the statement here is very clear. This is the Lord doing what he has purposed, carrying out his word, what he commanded long ago. It is always the Lord's will that is being done, even when we don't understand it, even when it's hard, even when it's painful. It is the word of the Lord. It is the will of the Lord. Now it doesn't mean we don't grieve, because there is grief. There is grief. And so there's a call to prayer. Verse 19 is a call to prayer. Arise, cry in the night. Pour out your heart like water before the presence of the Lord. Lift your hands to him. And then we get the prayer in verses 20 and following. Look, O Lord, and see There's some powerful imagery here of what really happens during a siege. Earlier in the chapter, I didn't focus in on this, but skipped by it, but the children are saying, where is our food? Right, and here you have women eating their children. And yes, that happens in sieges. We know it happens. And it happened in Jerusalem. Prophet and priest killed in the sanctuary of the Lord. So nothing holy, nothing sacred, nothing out of bounds. No one escaped or survived. That's not absolutely true, but it was widespread. It was disastrous So again, it's a call to pray to the Lord, and then there is the prayer to the Lord. And day after tomorrow when we come back to Lamentations. Tomorrow we're going to go to Revelation 11. When we come back to Lamentations, we'll be lamentations. 3 and we'll get some of the answer to this grief. But we're going to sit here in this grief for today because this is where the Lord leads us in Lamentations 2. So we need to remember some things. The Lord is always accomplishing his purposes. And we need to trust him. Now that doesn't mean we don't grieve or cry out to him in the middle of these things, but it's never the case that the world is out of control, that God has lost control of the world. He doesn't know what's happening or why it's happening. So we need to trust the Lord in all circumstances, even as we grieve, even as we lament, even as we cry out to him. Him. Let's pray. Father, we are your people, called by your name, loved by you. We live in a world that is full of sin and idolatry, and so often we see your people. Go after sin and idolatry. Our own hearts are too often drawn away after sin and idolatry. Have mercy on us. Pity us, O Lord. Forgive our sin. And turn our hearts back to you. Grant us repentance by your grace and for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Lamentations 2. As I said, tomorrow we're going back to Revelation to pick up Revelation chapter 11. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.