Good morning and welcome to Walking with the World. Jesus through the word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel working on a a different laptop for this, so I apologize if there are any technical glitches, but welcome. to our 945th day together in the Word of God. And we are starting a new book together in the Old Testament Lamentations. Great follow-up to Jeremiah because We believe that Jeremiah wrote Lamentations, and Jeremiah refers twice in the book of Jeremiah to the fall of Jerusalem Which he was there to witness. And this is Jeremiah's lament over the fall of Jerusalem. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and for your faithfulness. Unfailing you are. Computers fail and need to be repaired, but you never fail. You are with us always. So be with us today. Help me not to be too distracted by the technology differences. But help us to focus on your word and your truth together. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, Lamentations chapter one. How lonely sits the city that was full of people. How like a widow she has become. She who was great among the nations, she who was a princess among the provinces, has become a slave. She weeps bitterly in the night with tears on her cheeks. Among all her lovers she has none to comfort her. All her friends have dealt treacherously with her, they have become her enemies Judah has gone into exile because of affliction and hard servitude. She dwells now among the nations, but finds no resting place Her pursuers have all overtaken her in the midst of her distress. The roads to Zion mourn. For none come to the festival. All her gates are desolate, her priests groan, her virgins have been afflicted, and she herself suffers bitterly. Her foes have become the head, her enemies prosper, because the Lord has afflicted her for the multitude of her transgressions. Her children have gone away captives before the foe. From the daughter of Zion all her majesty has departed. Her princes have become like deer that find no pasture They fled without strength before the pursuer. Jerusalem remembers in the days of her affliction and wandering all the precious things that were hers from days of old When her people fell into the hand of the foe, and there was none to help her, her foes gloated over her. They mocked at her downfall Jerusalem sinned grievously, therefore she became filthy. All who honored her despise her, for they have seen her nakedness. She herself groans and turns her face away Her uncleanness was in her skirts. She took no thought of her future. Therefore her fall is terrible. She has no comforter. O Lord, behold my affliction, for the enemy has triumphed. The enemy has stretched out his hands over all her precious things, for she has seen the nations enter her sanctuary Those whom you forbade to enter your congregation. All her people groan as they search for bread, they trade their treasures for food to revive their strength Look, O Lord, and see, for I am despised. Is it nothing to you, O you who pass by? Look now and see Is there any sorrow like my sorrow which was brought upon me, which the Lord inflicted on the day of his fierce anger? From on high he sent fire into my bones. He made it descend. He spread a net for my feet. He turned me back. He has left me stunned, faint, all the day long My transgressions were bound into a yoke. By his hand they were fastened together. They were set upon my neck. He caused my strength to fail. The Lord gave me into the hands of those whom I cannot withstand The Lord rejected all my mighty men in my midst. He summoned an assembly against me to crush my young men. The Lord has trodden as in a wine press the virgin daughter of Judah. For these things I weep, my eyes flow with tears, for a comforter is far from me, one to revive my spirit, my children are desolate, for the enemy has prevailed Zion stretches out her hands, but there is none to comfort her. The Lord has commanded against Jacob that his neighbors should be his foes. Jerusalem has become a filthy thing among them. The Lord is in the right, for I have rebelled against his word, but hear, all you peoples, and see my suffering, my young women and my young men have drawn into captivity. I called to my lovers, but they deceived me. My priests and elders perished in the city, while they sought food to revive their strength Look, O Lord, for I am in distress, my stomach churns, my heart is wrung within me, because I have been very rebellious. In the street the sword bereaves. In the house it is like death. They heard my groaning, and yet there is no one to comfort me All my enemies have heard of my trouble. They are glad that you have done it. You have brought the day you announced. Now let them be as I am. Let all their evil doing come before you, and deal with them as you have dealt with me, because of all my transgressions, for my groans are many, and my heart is faint. That is Lamentations 1. And we see that the prophet Jeremiah is really lamenting on behalf of the people Which is powerful because we know that while Jeremiah brought this powerful message of judgment and an uncompromising call to repent or else face destruction. We know that Jeremiah himself was not pleased to be bringing this message. He said he couldn't hold it in. It was like fire shut up in his bones. He complained to the Lord that he had to bring this hard, hard message and that no one was listening, and that he was going to have to bear witness to the consequences. Well now he is bearing with us the consequences. Jeremiah is known as the weeping prophet because of the Book of Lamentations and also those few passages we looked at when we were in the book of Jeremiah. He is one who laments on behalf of the people. He identifies with the people. These are his people. He doesn't stand above them, apart from them. He doesn't distance himself from them. That's often an easy thing to do. Like it's easy to do one of two things. One is either to compromise the message Because you so identify with the people and you don't want them to reject you and you want their acceptance and so it's easy to compromise the message. But the other thing that's easy to do is to harden your heart against the people and say, well I've got to bring this message and they're not going to listen, so I just need to be, who cares, right? Who cares what they say And Jeremiah doesn't fall into either one of those traps. And in that he's very Christ-like, because Christ, when he came and he brought the message of the kingdom, To his people, John 1 tells us he came to his own people, and his own people did not receive him. And yet Jesus wept over Jerusalem. He said, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how long have I longed to gather you together as a hen would gather her chicks, but you were unwilling. So Jesus wasn't just unmoved by the rebellion of the people He he was moved deeply. So in this way Jeremiah is very Christ-like. Now lamentations is a lament It's a very highly structured lament, and it's very important to understand the structure, which is pretty much impossible to see in English fully. But there's five chapters in Lamentations. And four of the five chapters are acrostic poems. That is, there are 22 verses in Lamentations 1. It's a poem of 22 verses, and each subsequent verse begins with the next letter of the Jewish alphabet. So verse 1 starts with Aleph. Verse two starts with Bait and so on and so on through the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet. Chapter three, which is in the middle, is three times as long. Um and so it has it it it's just much longer. And the heart of chapter three that we're going to be looking at when we get there in a few days, is really the heart of this whole book. So all Hebrew poetry almost all Hebrew poetry, the heart of what's being said is in the middle of the poem. And so in the middle of the middle chapter When we get there in a couple of days, in a few days, we'll see what the heart of this book is. But it's framed with this highly structured lament. Now it's interesting to think Jeremiah is so intensely overwhelmed with this lament How does he sort of force that emotion, force that drama into this highly structured pattern of this acrostic poem? Well, sometimes that's what you have to do. with strong emotion and and poets are particularly gifted at this. And of course, Jeremiah was supernaturally empowered by the Holy Spirit to be able to do this. But I think of Walt Whitman, the famous American poet. who's known for his free verse. A lot of his his poetry is unrhymed lines of unfixed length. It's free verse, which is sort of free-flowing But when Abraham Lincoln died, Walt Whitman was very deeply moved and grieved. And he wrote probably his most famous poem, O Captain, my captain, and it's highly structured and has a tight rhyming pattern and a tight um meter. The greatest grief he felt of his life was was funneled into this this um type form. One of my favorite poems is by an English poet named John Dunn, who wrote Holy Sonnets. And the sonnet is a 14-line poem of rhymed lines of iambic pantameter, it's all Hingles or stuff. It's basically a highly structured form. And he's got one that begins with the opening line, batter my heart, three person to God. And it's a passionate cliff cry to God for sanctification, but it's in this tightly uh structured pattern of the sun. So sometimes that's what you do with grief is you you you want to get a hold of it and and be able to express it in a way that is controlled and that is um That is structured. And so that's what we have here in Lamentations is a highly structured book that is of deep, deep lament There's no doubt that God's people deserve the judgment that came upon them. Jeremiah had prophesied about it, and he makes it very clear here that she had sinned. And that's why this Distress has come upon her. She deserved it. However, that doesn't mean he's gloating. That doesn't mean he's unmoved by the distress. How lonely sits the city that was full of people, how like a widow she has become, she who was great among the nations, she who was a princess among the provinces, has become a slave She weeps bitterly in the night with tears on her cheeks. So just just the lament for this beautiful city. Now, she's gone into exile. Everyone's mourning. Her foes have become the head She's oppressed. She's afflicted. There was no one to help her. Verse 8 makes it very clear why this happened. Sin. And not just any sin, but grievous sin that makes her filthy, so that she was despised This is vivid language that is particularly playing upon the idea that Jerusalem is being personified here as a woman who is utterly shamed utterly shamed with this imagery of being filthy and the uncleanness being in her skirts and her nakedness being exposed and just it's the utter humiliation of this woman. And she cries out, O Lord, behold my affliction, for the enemy has triumphed And then later in verse 11, we have the transition of the voice from talking about Jerusalem. So now Jerusalem speaks. So now Jeremiah is speaking on behalf of Jerusalem. Look, O Lord, and see, for I am despised. Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by, look and see, is there any sorrow like my sorrow? which was brought upon me, which the Lord inflicted on the day of his fierce anger. So now for the rest of this of this opening poem, it is Jerusalem who is speaking And she's first addressing those who are observing her. And again, Jerusalem is honest about the cause of her affliction. Verse 14, My transgressions were bound in a yoke. By his hand they were fastened together. They were set upon my neck. The Lord gave me into the hands of those whom I could not withstand. The Lord rejected all my mighty men, crushed all my young men. But she says it's because of her iniquities. But Verse 18 even says, the Lord is in the right, for I have rebelled against his word. So here's the warning. I rebelled against the word of the Lord, and this is what's happened to me as a result of my rebellion. My own young mighty men couldn't rescue me. I called to my lovers, these are the other nations I called to the priests and the elders. No one could save me. So now I'm in distress. And why am I in distress? Verse 20 again makes it very clear, because I have been very rebellious. The close, the last verse, is now addressing the Lord. Begins at the end of verse. 21. You have brought the day you announced. Now let them be as I am, let their evil doing come before you, and deal with them as you've dealt with me because of all my trouble. So we go from Jeremiah speaking about the city of Jerusalem to the city of Jerusalem speaking about herself to all those around her to finally the city of Jerusalem praying to the Lord. That's actually where Lamentation is going to end in chapter five is with a prayer. Now that prayer in chapter five is actually the only chapter that's not an acrostic, which is interesting. We'll talk about that when we get to it. So what do we learn from this? Well what we learn from this is that sin leads to sorrow Rebelliousness against the Lord. Yes, we are saved by grace. Yes, we have a righteousness that is not our own. Jesus took away our sin on the cross. He imputed his righteousness to us. We are clean and holy in the eyes of God. But still, as Galatians 5 says, do not be deceived. Whatever a man sows, that he will also reap, because God cannot be mocked. Sin always leads to sorrow, and a people who are stubbornly and repeatedly rebellious against the Lord. Will suffer the consequences of that rebellion. Idolatry, injustice, selfishness, unbelief, unfaithfulness They lead to consequences. We need to be aware of that for our own lives, for our children, our families, our churches We need to repent. We need to hear what Jeremiah was saying to the people of Jerusalem for years and years before that it got to this point. Repent. Turn to the Lord. Turn away from your sin. Wake up. Be zealous. Repent. That's what we need to hear. And then we need to realize that for those who are suffering the consequences of their sin, we should in no way gloat about it. Or say, I told you so, or harden our hearts toward them, but we should grieve with them and for them. We need to identify with those who suffer. Even if it is because they ignored even warnings that we gave them, we still need to identify with those who suffer. suffer. That's what Jesus did for us. He became a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. He identified with our suffering, even though he himself was guiltless. So repent, be zealous and repent. and identify with those who are suffering because that's what Christ did for us. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this passage of scripture. Thank you for your truth. Thank you for your son, our Savior. Please help us to live what we learned today. For your glory in our lives, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Lamentations 1. Tomorrow we're going to go on to Lamentations 2. I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.