Isaiah 42, 18 is where we'll pick up back in the book of Isaiah again. And we're going to read through the first part of chapter 43. So Isaiah 42, 18, and I'm going to read to 4315 This is the Word of God. Isaiah 42, 18. Hear, you deaf, and look, you blind, that you may see. Who is blind but my servant? Or deaf as my messenger whom I send? Who is blind as my dedicated one, or blind as the servant of the Lord? He sees many things, but does not observe them. His ears are open, but he does not hear. The Lord was pleased for his righteousness' sake. to magnify his law and make it glorious. But this is a people plundered and looted. They are all of them trapped in holes and hidden in prisons. They have become plunder with none to rescue, spoil with none to say, restore. Who among you will give ear to this? Will attend and listen for the time to come? Who gave up Jacob to the looter and Israel to the plunderers? Was it not the Lord against whom we have sinned? in whose ways they would not walk, and whose law they would not obey. So he poured on him the heat of his anger. And the might of battle. It set him on fire all around, but he did not understand. It burned him up, but he did not take it to heart. But now, thus says the Lord, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel, fear not For I have redeemed you. I have called you by name. You are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you. When you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you, for I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I give Egypt as your ransom Cush and Seba in exchange for you, because you are precious in my eyes and honored, and I love you. I give men in return for you, peoples, in exchange for your life. Fear not, for I am with you. I will bring your offspring from the east and from the west. I will gather you. I will say to the north, give up and to the south, do not withhold. Bring my sons from afar and my daughters from the end of the earth, everyone who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, whom I formed and made, bring out The people who are blind yet have eyes, who are deaf yet have ears. All the nations gather together and the peoples assemble. Who among them can declare this and show us the former things Let them bring their witnesses to prove them right, and let them hear and say, It is true. You are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen. that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me no God was formed, nor shall there be any after me. I I am The Lord, and besides me there is no Savior. I declared and saved and proclaimed when there was no strange God among you. And you are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and I am God. Also henceforth I am He There is none who can deliver from my hand. I work, and who can turn it back? Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. For your sake I send to Babylon and bring them all down as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships in which they rejoice. I am The Lord, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King. Let's pray. Oh Father, you are magnificent. You are glorious. You are wonderful beyond words. Help us to see your glory, to give thanks to you, to believe you, to follow you, to trust you. Speak to us, we pray Pray in Jesus' name, Amen. You may be seated. I'm sure you're probably familiar with the concept of user error. User error is a concept I am intimately familiar with in many aspects of my life. Usually the user error that I am guilty of is either using something for a purpose that it wasn't intended to be used for, or else Using something but if it doesn't work right, I just sort of try to force it to happen I think some of this I inherited from my dad. My dad has been working on cars for all of my life. He doesn't do it much anymore, but um much of my dad's car repair history has sometimes drawn more inspiration from MacGyver than from the owner's manual or the official repair manual. Like this looks like this will work to solve this problem. And uh most of the time it actually did work. Um and then, you know, I would work with him sometimes and I was a kid so he's like you need to give it a little more elbow grease. You need to just put a little more effort into it. And so I've taken that You know, even as a full grow man, like well it's not it doesn't seem to be working. Maybe if I maybe if I wrench on it harder, maybe if I push harder, it'll work. And then snap User error. And uh Steve Schley has a job where he deals with user error all the time. I don't know if you know this, but Steve works for Black Decker. um Stanley Tools and he he deals with people who hurt themselves or who break stuff and they call in to complain and they want compensation from Stanley Blackendecker. And 95% of the time it's user error. Like you did something you weren't supposed to do, clearly. Now, what does this have to do with the passage in front of us? Well, God gave his people. His law on Mount Sinai. And when God gave his people his law, it's a good law. It's a wonderful, holy, beautiful law. Best law that's ever been given. Isaiah 42. 21 says, the Lord was pleased for his righteousness' sake to magnify his law and make it glorious. When God gave his law, it was accompanied with thunder and smoke and fire, a manifestation of his glory such as they'd never seen before. They were terrified. He wrote the Ten Commandments himself on tablets of stone. God was pleased to magnify his law because his law did two things. It magnified his character, his holy and righteous character, and it showed his people their need For forgiveness and redemption. It showed his people their lack of holy and righteous character. This is how it's supposed to work. The first table of God's law, the first four commandments, they show us the holiness of God, the holy character of God. No other gods before me, no graven images. Honor my name, honor my day. God is holy. Only he is to be worshipped. And he's to be worshipped in the way that he's commanded, not with pictures or statues. And we're to keep his name holy and were to keep his day holy, because he is holy. Second table of the law shows the righteous character of God, that he is righteous in all that he does He's created authorities, starting with our parents and others. So honor your father and mother and honor those that God's rightly put in authority over you. He's the giver of life and the protector of life. So Do not murder. He's he's the creator of marriage and of uh human relationships, so don't commit adultery. Uh he respects private property, he's the one who gives us the things that we have so we are not to steal, but to be content. with what we're given, so the last commandment is don't covet. He's the God of truth, and everything he says is truth. We're not to bear false witness. And so these, these Commandments, they show us the holiness and the righteousness of God, and they also expose to us that we don't measure up, that we fall short. The user error comes if we try to use God's law as a means of salvation of self-justification, of self-righteousness. If we think that we can make ourselves holy and righteous like God is holy and righteous. by doing the to-do things or not doing the do-not things, that's a user error for two reasons. One, that's not why God gave us the law He never intended it as a way of salvation. He intended it as a way of displaying his own character and of exposing our sin. And the second thing is, on our own, in our sinful nature, we are totally unable to keep God's law, and we are totally unwilling to keep God's law And so what we end up doing is if we're trying to pursue it as a way of salvation, we end up being self-righteous, hypocritical. People. And there's a lot of times when Christians get accused of that. Oh, they're self-righteous and hypocritical. And sometimes it's because we fall into this trap of Salvation. God is exposing his people now by the time Isaiah comes along. God's people have had God's law for nearly a thousand years. It's about from the fourteen hundreds BC until the you know six hundred or so, so eight hundred years or so people have had God's law and it's been a disaster. They're going to suffer judgment because it's been such a disaster. But why was it a disaster? Why is it that when you read the Old Testament, you think, what is wrong with these people? When are they ever going to get it right? You ever think that when you read the Old Testament? Like Seriously? This again? Didn't we just do this a couple chapters ago? Come on. What we're supposed to see there is ourselves. What we're supposed to see is us. The problem, the reason why they're so messing it up, is because they are spiritually deaf and blind. And that's what God points out. In the beginning of our passage here in Isaiah 42, verses 18 and 19, God actually calls upon the deaf and blind of the world. To witness the blindness and deafness of his servant Israel Hear you deaf and look you blind. There's irony there. We're supposed to see that. Wait a minute. How are deaf people supposed to hear anything? How are blind people supposed to be able to see anything? Well hear you deaf and look you blind that you may see Who is blind but my servant and deaf as my messenger whom I send? Who's blind like my dedicated one or blind as the servant of the Lord? He sees many things, but he doesn't observe them. His ears are open, but he doesn't hear The Lord was pleased for his own righteousness' sake to magnify his law and make it glorious, but this is the people plundered and looted, and all of them are trapped in holes and hidden in prisons. They've become plunder with none to rescue. None to say, restore. Why? They're spiritually blind and deaf. They were called by God to be a light to the nation. They were given the law, they were given the temple, so that they could set it up and they could be a shining light to the nations to show them, come and see, come and hear what God is like. In the temple, in the worship, in the law of God, you'll see what God is like, you'll hear what God is like. Come and see, come and hear. Well The problem, of course, the nations are as blind and deaf as Israel. And so if these blind and deaf nations come, what they're going to see is blind and deaf people. Something better is needed. We've already been given the answer, and you may be confused a little bit by the beginning of this passage because if if you were here in May When we were in Isaiah last, and we were in the beginning part of Isaiah 42, you see in Isaiah, the beginning part of Isaiah 42, God talks about my servant. but in very positive ways. Behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him, he will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud, or lift up his voice, or make it heard in the streets, a bruised reed he will not break, a faintly burning wick he will not question. What a wonderful, wonderful servant. And we saw in May that this actually is talking about Jesus. But then why, when we get in the same chapter, just down to verse 19, it's who is blind but my servant? Who is blind as the servant of the Lord? Why would God use the same term in the same chapter to refer to his son who he delights in and who's doing his will, but also to Israel, who's blind and deaf, and who's not doing his will. Why would he do that? Is trying to confuse us? You sometimes read the Bible and be like, this is so confusing. Why is this so confusing? Well, because if you understand things right, it all fits together, and this is the answer. Jesus comes To be the servant that Israel was always supposed to be, but failed to be. Jesus comes to be the true Israel, the servant true servant of God. In the Gospel of John, which we're going through in Sunday school, little plug, come to Sunday school. Jesus says things about himself like I am the true vine and I am the light of the world. And much of what he's saying there is what Israel was supposed to be. He now comes to actually be. And here we see the same thing. Israel was called the servant of God, but they're blind and deaf, so Jesus comes into the world to be the true servant of God. The fulfillment of all that Israel was supposed to be, but failed to do. What does it have to do with us? This is Israel. What about us? Well, we need to see this is about us. We are called children of God. Jesus says of us, you are the light of the world, you are the salt of the earth. But in and of ourselves Right? What we can bring from within ourselves, how are we doing with that? Being children of God, children should imitate their parents, being light of the world, being salt of the We're not we're not doing job because we can't. Save ourselves, we can't sanctify ourselves, we can't be what God's called us to be. Only Christ can, and Christ has been, and we have only the hope of doing this if we are in Christ. Apart from Christ, we can have the most glorious law. Apart from Christ, we can know the truth as clear as can be, but we're absolutely powerless to do it You take a blind person who doesn't know anything about construction And you hand them a set of power tools and a pile of lumber and you tell them to build themselves a house. How's that gonna go? That's us. God says, I have a kingdom. I want you to be my kingdom servants. I want you to be my kingdom witnesses. And if we think that's on us, that we've got to do it We're setting ourselves up for failure because we can't. But God can. And Jesus has done it, which is why when you get to the end of chapter 42, there's this darkness, this hopelessness. Even, you know, Israel's getting ready to go into exile. And God asks In verse 24, who gave up Jacob to the looter and Israel to the plunderer? The northern tribes of Israel, they've already been taken off into captivity by the Assyrians. The rest, Judah and Jerusalem, they're going to be taken off by the Babylonians into captivity. Who does it? Well, it's the Lord against whom we've sinned, in whose ways they would not walk. And whose law they would not obey. Sometimes people get hung up on this thing when you talk about like total depravity, talk about the sinful condition of human beings in and of ourselves. They're blind and deaf. What do you know about a blind person? They can't see. What do you know about a deaf person? They can't hear. But God says, see many things, but don't observe them. Your ears are open, but you don't hear. And then they would not walk in his ways, they would not obey his law. So is our problem in our natural condition as we're born into this world with a sinful nature Is our problem that we cannot obey God, we cannot keep his law, or is it that we don't want to obey God and we don't want to keep his law? Which one is our problem? You know me well enough by now to know the answer to that question, right? Yes. Both of them. We cannot and we will not and we will not and we cannot. And that's why. Chapter 43 begins with these two glorious words that we sometimes find in Scripture. But now. It's hopeless on our own. But now. But now But now, thus says the Lord. Just at a glance, just look if you still have your Bibles open. Notice how Israel centered. The end of 42 is. And notice how God-centered the beginning of 43 is. Everything at the end of 42 is about what Israel's done or not done, what they've been guilty of or not guilty of. It's about them, what they're doing. And then you turn to 43 and it all of a sudden becomes completely and entirely about what God has done, is doing, and will do That's why we move from law to gospel. We move from human effort which is misdirected, selfish, inadequate, pathetic to God's work which is glorious and eternal and redemptive and powerful. But now, thus says the Lord. He who created you, O Jacob, He who formed you, O Israel, fear not. And God doesn't say, fear not, you can do it. You've got this. I believe in you. God doesn't say that. Because he's not going to lie to us. He says, fear not, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by name, you are mine. And that's our hope. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you. When you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned. And the flames shall not consume you, for I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I think the culmination of this, in many ways, comes in verse 11. Very short verse, but a very powerful one. I. I am the Lord. And you understand, I think, the Lord all caps there is Yahweh. which is the name of the Lord, which is the great I Am, right? I, I am the Great I Am It's like this over-emphasis on it's all about me and who I am Because I am the great I am, self-sufficient, eternally, unchanging, faithful, unfailing. And besides me, there is no Savior. I, I am Yahweh, the great I am, and besides me there is no Savior. Don't look anywhere else. Don't long for anything else. I'm the one who's doing it. We get the equivalent of this this hinge, this turn from the end of 42 to the beginning of 43. We get it twice. in one of my favorite chapters of all of Scripture, Ephesians 2. So if you have your Bibles out, turn with me to Ephesians 2. You can keep your mark, mark your place in Isaiah 43. We'll come back to it. But I want you to see that this is a consistent Theme in Scripture. It's the gospel. And it's given to us in Isaiah 43, but it's also given to us in Ephesians 2 twice. The first time the hinge comes with the words but God, and the second time the hinge comes with the words but now. First, verses 1 to 5 of Ephesians 2 And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work and the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature Children of wrath, like the rest of mankind, but God Being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved. Saved. And then jump down and look at verses 11 to 13. Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh, that's us. Called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ. Alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now, in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. That's the gospel. We can't save ourselves, but God has in Christ. We can't keep the law, but God has fulfilled it in Christ. We deserve condemnation, but Jesus took the condemnation on himself so that we could receive justification. We won't turn our hearts back to God on our own, but God is gracious and he will forgive our sins and he will turn our hearts back to himself. We are blind and deaf and walking dead, but God gives sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, and life to the dead. It is all the work of God, and it is glorious. It is salvation Look at what he says about us. Because he's speaking to us here. We are grafted in to the promises that are yes in Christ. He created you. He formed you. He has redeemed you, and he has called you by name. That's what He's done for us. That's who we are in Christ. It's so important, see, because the other thing that I see Christians doing sometimes. Two things. One is this sort of self-righteous hypocritical stance that basically says, we're the good people, because I'm a good church-going tax-paying Law-obeying citizen, and I'm the good people, right? That's the one error that we make. But the other error that we make sometimes is now that we are in Christ We sometimes forget who we are in Christ, and we still talk as though we've not been redeemed. We beat ourselves up. We talk about how terrible we are. We talk about how frustrating we are. And we'll even say, well, I'm just a I've I'm totally depraved. Just there's no light in me. Can't do anything right. Now, that may be true of who you are in and of yourself, and of who you would be had Christ not redeemed you But God says of you, I created you, I formed you, I redeemed you, I called you by name, you are mine. 2 Corinthians 5. If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Behold, all the old things have gone, and new things have come. So we need to both believe that we have nothing good in and of ourselves that we can present to God We can't earn our salvation. We can't say to God, look here, I've done the to-do list. Please give me my gold star and my A plus because I did it. We can't do that. But we also can't say, Oh, I'm just so totally lost and forsaken because God has sent me. Said, no, I've loved you. I've made you my own And God reminds them of what He had done for them in the past, and He tells them what He's going to do for them in the immediate future, and then He tells them what He's going to do in the glorious future, and that's all covered. in chapter forty three. Let me just go through some of it real quick to clarify anything that might be confusing to you. But he says in verse three, I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I give Egypt as your ransom, Cush and Siva, and Egypt Exchange for you. Because you are precious in my eyes and honored, and I love you, I give men in return for you, peoples in exchange for your life. And then I think that's connected to what he says in verse 14. Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, For your sake I send to Babylon and bring them all down as fugitives. Even the Chaldeans in the ships in which they rejoice. What's God talking about? Well, in verse 3, he's talking about what he's done for them in the past. And I think you can see it as an allusion to two different events, and they may both be in view. One is the Exodus, and the other one is the way that he saved Judah and Jerusalem from the Assyrians when Everything would look like it was gonna blow up. So going back to the Exodus, how did God bring his people out of the Egypt. There was a price to be paid. And the firstborn of Egypt died, and then the Egyptian army drowned. in the Red Sea. God sacrificed those people to bring his people to to salvation out of bondage into Deliverance. But then just a short time before these prophecies, there was another time when the Assyrians were threatening them And and they had wiped out the surrounding nations and they were they were zeroing in on Jerusalem and they got to where they were about to lay siege to Jerusalem and remember Hezekiah prayed. We we looked at this Before and the angel of the Lord sent came and slayed 185,000 Assyrians in one night. But there's something else that God did at the same time. Not only did they find a hundred and eighty-five thousand thousand of their men dead, but then they also heard the Kushites are coming. And they're a mighty army. And so the Assyrians had to like head back home and regroup and then go fight the Cushites. And what ends up happening is they end up subduing the Kushites and the Egyptians. And I I think I showed you this map where the Assyrian Empire was spread all the way from present day Iran to present day Egypt and everything in between except this little tiny island of independence and that was Judah and Jerusalem that was never conquered by the Assyrians God gave these other nations an exchange. And what he's going to do in the future is he's going to do the same thing with the Babylonians. To bring the people out of Babylon, they're going to be conquered by the Medes and the Persians. And the great ships of the Babylonians, because they're they're right on the Tigris and Euphrates, they had many canals and many great ships, are going to be used to transport God's people back. for by the blood of Jesus, the priceless, matchless Son of God. That ultimately the price To bring his people out, to bring his people together, to be his people, will be paid by Christ Himself. Jesus said in John 12, When I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all people to myself He's talking about the ransom that he pays on the cross. He said from the cross, it is finished, which is a word to telesty that means paid in full or account settled, debt paid. The ransom price has been paid. And that's why it was just 50 days after Jesus died that you had this great ingathering at Pentecost. We sometimes don't connect things in the Bible that need to be connected. Here's a promise that when the ransom is paid, God's going to bring people from the north and the south and from the east and the west. He's going to gather them all together And he gives us the picture of that happening, that when Jesus dies, fifty days later, Pentecost happens, and thousands of people from all over the world, from all these different nations, some to the east, some to the west, some to the north, some to the south, they all come in. They're all gathered in. A greater ingathering of converts into the kingdom of God than we'd seen in all of biblical history, really. 3,000 people in one day, and then that grows to be thousands of people. And then by the time of the end of the apostolic Generation, you have the gospel going all the way from India to Spain to Ethiopia to Rome. God does this because the ransom price has been paid. What does that mean for us? It means two things. And the two things that we I think God wants us to see from this very importantly is our identity and our calling, who we are, and what we're to be about. Our identity is found in what God says about us here. We're called by his name. We are his. He is with us. He loves us. Verse 4: because you are precious in my eyes and honored and And I love you. Who are you? If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, you have been bought with the blood of the Son of God. Of God. You have been ransomed, bought back with a price beyond all the treasure in the world, the life of the Son of God. And God says, I did that because you are precious in my sight and honor. And I love you. So you are precious and you are redeemed. Not because of who you are in and of yourself, but because of what God thinks of you and what God has done for you. You are the redeemed of God. Well then what's our calling? We get this in verse ten. You are my witnesses. You are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and my servant, whom I've chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me no God was formed, nor shall there be any after me We're his witnesses. That's why Jesus, after he paid the redemption price and he rose again from the dead, he said to his disciples, In Acts 1. 8, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you will be my witnesses. You are my witnesses, declares the Lord. Because God's done something for us that no amount of human effort could ever do. So when we talk to people And they say, well, if you go to church, are you a Christian? You say, you know, the Lord has been so good to me. The Lord has so good Save me. I I I'm no different from anybody else. I have all the same kinds of problems, all the same kind of mixed up emotions, all the same kinds of issues, but the Lord has been so good to me. Let me tell you how How great he is. He has set his love upon me and he has redeemed me through his son. So that the Lord is magnified. Like no other. Because there is no one else like him. If we're to be his witnesses, that means two things. It means one, we can't trust in ourselves In our own self-righteousness. We're not going to talk about how good we are. But we're also not going to be ashamed of what God has done for us. We're going to speak openly and plainly and clearly about what God has done for us, because He's done it. And it's all about what He's done. It's not about what we've done. And there's different ways to do that in different contexts with different people, but we are precious and loved by God, and we're called to be His witnesses. Not in self-reliance, but in reliance upon the Holy Spirit who lives within us. Because As helpless as we are on our own, we are not on our own. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the rivers they will not overwhelm you. And when you walk through fire, you shall not be burned. And the flame shall not consume you. So you may have an opportunity when you're going through something hard, and people know that you're going through something hard. And they say, how are you doing? You know the easy thing is to say, fine, we're doing okay. We're keeping it together, all the things that normal people say. But if you're going through something hard and someone knows that you're going through something hard, and they ask you, how are you doing? What if your answer was, the Lord is with me, and he's holding me together? That might be different from what they expect. That's a simple way we can be his witnesses. And it's not about us and how great we are. It's about how great God is and how good He is to us. Rest in, rejoice in. Take delight in the Lord who has been so good to you. And pray for the grace to let that naturally overflow from your heart to those around you. Sometimes there is that natural thing we would want to say. Because it is really what's in our heart, but we pull it back and we say something else because God's been really good to us. It is hard. What we're going through is hard, but God's been really good to us. Or when you're really blessed, like, hey man, you got that promotion, or hey, you got that vacation, how was it? Just say, you know, God's so good to us. We're so thankful that he gives us such great things. Simple way to talk, but it's profound in a world where we don't talk about those things. Right? No. God's been so good to us. We are his witnesses, and what a privilege that is to our neighbors and to the ends of the earth. Pray. Father, we ourselves are blind and deaf and the walking dead. That's what your word tells us. There's no capacity in and of ourselves to walk in your law. There's even no desire in and of ourselves to want to walk in your law. It feels like a burden. That we don't want. But you, by your grace, have changed our hearts. You by your grace have brought life out of death. Have given sight to the blind, have opened the ears of the deaf. So now we hear our shepherd's voice and we see your ways, and we want to walk in them. We don't always walk in them. Sometimes we get distracted, but but we have a heart's desire. To want to walk with you. And that's your work, not ours. Thank you. Thank you for redeeming us. Thank you for being gracious to us. Thank you for drawing us. Empower us to be your witnesses this week, to speak of the Lord who's been good to us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.