Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church Good to be with you for our last day of week 17, and we come to the end of Mark chapter 10, verses 32 to 52, and we're asking, what makes for great leadership in the kingdom of God? What makes for great leadership in the kingdom of God? Let's pray. Father, please write your word on our hearts today and show us more of Christ and his leadership over your kingdom. That we might walk in his footsteps and imitate his character. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Mark ten, thirty-two to fifty-two. And they were on the road going to Jerusalem, and Jesus was walking ahead of them, and they were amazed. And those who followed them were afraid. And taking the twelve again, he began to tell them what would happen to him, saying, See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes. and they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles, and they will mock him and spit on him and flog him and kill him, and after three days he will rise. And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him and said to him, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. And he said to them, What do you want me to do for you? And they said to him, Grant us to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left in your glory. Jesus said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized? And they said to him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup that I drink you will drink, and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you will be baptized. But to sit at my right hand or at my left hand is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared. And when the ten heard it, they began to be indignant at James and John. And Jesus called them to him and said to them, You know that those who are considered rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. And they came to Jericho. And as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a great crowd, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me! And many rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me! And Jesus stopped and said, Call him And they called the blind man, and saying to him, Take heart. Get up, he is calling you. And throwing off his cloak, he sprang up and came to Jesus. And Jesus said to him, What do you want me to do for you? And the blind man said to him, Rabbi, let me recover my sight. And Jesus said to him, Go your way. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him on the way. Why does it seem like We are so often not paying attention when God is trying to teach us the most important lessons. The disciples certainly had this problem. Jesus told them in Mark 10, 33-34, about how he would be betrayed, unjustly condemned, beaten and killed, and then rise again. James and John missed the whole rejection and suffering lesson. And instead they asked Jesus if they could sit on his right and left sides in glory. Jesus' mind is on the coming cross, and they are thinking about glory and positions of power for themselves. So Jesus, ever the patient teacher, takes the opportunity of James and John's misguided request to teach the disciples about what makes for great leadership in his kingdom The disciples obviously had not been paying attention to the way Jesus was serving people, healing, blessing, teaching, casting out demons. They still thought of leadership in terms of position, power, and prestige, and not in terms of humility and service. Jesus actually says that the first place among his followers would belong to the one who was a slave to all. For free Jews living under Roman occupation, the idea of voluntarily making themselves like slaves was horrible to consider. They wanted more freedom, not less. They wanted a higher position, not a lower one. But in leadership, as in all of life, Jesus must be our model The Son of Man came not to serve, came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many We would have no hope. We would have no life. We would have no salvation if Jesus had thought of position, power, and prestige instead of serving and meeting the needs of his people. Those of us called to leadership, whether in our homes, in our communities, in our workplaces, or in the church, must have the same mindset as Christ and ask, how can I serve? Instead of how can I be served? It's a great lesson for all of us, no matter where we are in life. Let's turn our attention to Psalm 86 now, a prayer of David. Incline your ear, O Lord, and answer me, for I am poor and needy. Preserve my life, for I am godly. Save your servant who trusts in you. You are my God. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for to you do I cry all the day Gladden the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. For you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer. Listen to my plea for grace. In the day of my trouble I call upon you, for you answer me. There is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like yours. All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord and shall glorify your name, for you are great and do wondrous things. You alone are God. Teach me your way, O Lord. That I may walk in your truth, unite my heart to fear your name. I give thanks to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart. And I will glorify your name forever. For great is your steadfast love toward me. You have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. O Lord, O God, insolent men have risen up against me. A band of ruthless men seeks my life. They do not set you before them But you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Turn to me and be gracious to me. Give your servant, give your strength to your servant, and save the son of your maidservant. Show me a sign of your favor That those who hate me may see and be put to shame, because you, Lord, have helped me and comforted me. pray. Oh Lord, your steadfast love, your graciousness to us is our hope, our strength, our life day by day. You indeed are gathering all the nations to worship before you. Use us as your servants in humility, in love, in dependence upon you. That we might do what you've given us to do, trusting in you for the fruit that will come from it. We do face opposition. The opposition is real. At times it is strong, but you are stronger, and your kingdom will not fail. So thank you for the precious promises of your word. Thank you for your presence with us every day. Be with us today and help us to walk in your ways. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that wraps up week 17. I hope it was a blessing to you, and I hope you can join us on Monday as we continue in the Gospel of Mark. and continue praying through the Psalms. Have a blessed day, a blessed weekend, a blessed Lord's Day, and we'll see you back next week.