Good morning everyone. Welcome to another Psalms Devotional Time. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is a Monday morning, October 19th, and we are looking at Psalm 107 together this morning. It is a great Thanksgiving Psalm. And it's got a great refrain that you'll hear as we go through. And it really is an opportunity for us to really reflect on and think about. our salvation and how it is that God has saved us and what difference that has made in our lives and how it is that we can give thanks to Him for the salvation that is ours in Christ. So let's pray and then we'll read Psalm 107 together. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning, we thank you for Another day of life, another day to live before your presence and to be your people. We thank you for gathering us together this morning to take a look at Psalm 107. As we gather together as your people, Father, we need to hear from you. And so we look to you to speak to us. We look to you to be the one who Changes our hearts by the power of your Holy Spirit to make us more thankful, to make us more humble, to make us more loving, to make us more kind, to make us more joyful and worshipful in all the ways that only you can, Father. And so we look to you and we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Psalm 107. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he has redeemed from trouble and gathered in from the lands. From the east and from the west, from the north and from the south Some wandered in desert wastes, finding no way to a city to dwell in. Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He led them by a straight way. till they reached a city to dwell in. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man. For he satisfies the longing soul, and the hungry soul he fills with good things. Some sat in darkness, And in the shadow of death, prisoners in affliction and in irons, for they had rebelled against the words of God and spurned the counsel of the Most High. So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor. They fell down with none to help. Then they all cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death and burst their bonds apart. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love. for his wondrous works to the children of man, for he shatters the doors of bronze and cuts in two the bars of iron. Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction. They loathed any kind of food, and they drew near to the gates of death. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He sent out his word and healed them and delivered them from their destruction. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love. for his wondrous works to the children of man, and let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving and tell of his deeds in songs of joy. Some went down to the sea in ships, doing business on the great waters. They saw the deeds of the Lord, his wondrous works in the deep. For he commanded and raised the stormy wind, which lifted up the waves of the sea. They mounted to the heaven, they went down to the depths. Their courage melted away in their evil plight. They reeled and staggered like drunken men, and were at their wit's end. They cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed. Then they were glad that the waters were quiet, and he brought them to their desired haven. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man. Let them extol him in the congregation of the people and praise him in the assembly of the elders. He turns rivers into a desert. springs of water into thirsty ground, a fruitful land into a salty waste because of the evil of its inhabitants. He turns a desert into pools of water, a parched land into springs of water, and there he lets the hungry dwell, and they establish a city to live in. They sow fields and plant vineyards and get a fruitful yield. By his blessing they multiply greatly, and he does not let their livestock diminish. When they are diminished and brought low, through oppression, evil, and sorrow, he pours contempt on princes and makes them wander in tractless wastes But he raises up the needy out of affliction, and makes their families like flocks. The upright see it and are glad, and all wickedness shuts its mouth Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things. Let them consider the steadfast love of the Lord. Amen. And it's not hard to see the theme here from beginning to end is giving thanks to the Lord for his salvation, for his rescue, as we consider the steadfast love of the Lord. This is my vanity mug, by the way. In case I forget my own name. I've got it here on a mug. Actually, my sister-in-law got this for me, and it's a nice mug. So it's the steadfast love of the Lord. We've talked about this word before several times. Hesed is the word in Hebrew, and I told you it's like the thread. that runs throughout the Psalms to show us the heart of God. And the heart of God toward his people is Hasid, which is steadfast love, covenant faithfulness, loyal love, redeeming love. It's all all of that is is in these really three little Hebrew words, Hasid, and it's a powerful, beautiful word. But this gives us a series of pictures. And I think the best way for us to understand this and to be able to pray it well from the heart is to see this as a series of pictures that we then understand as being pictures of our redemption. So they show us what it means to be redeemed of the Lord and the various aspects of that redemption that we have in Christ. and how it is that God has rescued us. So we're given a series of pictures of people who are in distress and who are in trouble, but if we reflect on What it means to be saved, what it means to redeem to be redeemed, right? Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he has redeemed from trouble. These are different pictures of what it means to live life without God. What it means to live a life without God in the world. Just this morning in part of my Bible reading I did Ephesians 2. And Ephesians two is that wonderful chapter that has two beautiful hinges in it, but God and but now. And it says we were children of wrath like the rest of mankind, but God who is rich in mercy Because of the great love with which he loved us, his Hesed, right, made us alive when we were dead in our trespasses. And then verse Uh later in the in the chapter it says we were without God, without hope in the world, but now those who us who are far away have been brought near. But God and but now. And that's kind of what Psalm 107 is. It's kind of an Ephesians 2, in that it gives us these turnings of our lives to remind us of what He has done for us in salvation. So the first picture is of wandering in a desert, hungry and thirsty, with nothing to eat or drink. Here's the reality, life in this world, this world has nothing to satisfy our souls. This world will sell you anything. Anything except what your soul needs to be satisfied with good. And I'm reminded here of Christian and Faithful in Vanity Fair in Pilgrim's Progress. And they go into Vanity Fair, and Vanity Fair you can buy anything you want except the truth. Right? And they cause quite a stir because the merchants are insisting that they buy something, anything. And they say, well, we buy the truth. And of course they know that's the one thing that's not for sale in Vanity Fair. This is the picture here. Without God. Without God, we are in the world as those who are hungry and thirsty, and we're in the middle of a desert, a desert waste. But God leads us to a city to dwell in. Not Bel Air, Maryland, or wherever your city is. But God leads us to a city that is not made by human hands, a city in the heavens, as Hebrews 11 tells us. the eternal city. That's our home, and it's reflected on earth in the church. So he leads us into his people. And there we hear the truth. There we see his steadfast love. There we praise God together with those who call upon him in faith. And so that's what God does. He satisfies our longing soul. He fills our hungry soul with good things by bringing us to a city. to the new Jerusalem, the heavenly Jerusalem, which on earth is reflected in the true church, the church that honors God, where his word is preached and he is worshipped in spirit and in truth. And then, of course, he will lead us on to our eternal home in the heavenly Jerusalem. Second picture is of sitting in prison. Being imprisoned by our sin and by our guilt and by our shame, we sit alone. We sit hopeless because of our sin. And so that's the second picture. We have hard labor. We're in rebellion, right? That's what we do. We serve the taskmaster of our sin in the bondage of our iniquity without God. And yet we cry out to God, and God delivers us out of our distress. He brings us out of darkness, out of the shadow of death, and he bursts our bonds apart. And this reminds me of what's probably my favorite verse in one of my favorite hymns, and can it be, long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast bound in sin. Uh and thine eye diffused a quickening ray. I woke the dungeon filled with light My chains fell off, my heart went free, I rose, went forth, and followed thee. And can it be, that I should be in prison and in darkness, and you would bring the light of life, and you would bring salvation to me. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man. That's just a wonderful refrain for us to have. in our heads all day long. Let us thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man. Now, this third picture is of being foolish, kind of crazed, right, and wandering. And I think here of, excuse me, let me get I think here of the demoniac who wandered among the tombs. And how that's a picture of us without God. Without God, we're insane. We don't value what's right. We don't know what's right. We suffer affliction because of our iniquities. We loathe food. Do you remember when you were not a believer? God's word was the most boring and closed book to you, and why would you have any interest in it? Unbelievers don't aren't aren't interested in looking at the Bible or studying the Bible because They are in in the state of of sin caused insanity. And yet Cry the Lord in their trouble, delivers them out of their distress, sends out his word. That's what we need. We need his word to feed us, to heal us, to deliver us. So he brings us his righteousness, his truth. He brings us to his people. He brings us his word. And again the refrain, let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men, and let them offer up sacrifices of thanksgiving and tell of his deeds and songs of joy. Third pic uh fourth picture. Some went down to the sea in ships doing business on the great waters. This is the pursuit of earthly wealth. Again, when we're apart from God and we're on our own, we're out there trying to make money, trying to climb that ladder, trying to keep one step ahead of the Joneses, trying to to to Make make our dreams come true, right? And what happens? Well, it's a storm-tossed world, right? The stock market goes up, the stock market comes down. That's kind of my picture here when I think of people trying to make money. The stock market goes up, the stock market comes down. You ride the wave, and then you fall into the trough. And it is a frustrating futile endeavor and it does not bring us uh the fruitfulness that we want, trying to chase after the world's riches. But we cry to the Lord and he delivers us. And what does he do? He brings us peace. He brings us peace. People think they're going to get financial security if they just have enough wealth. That's not real security. Real peace is found only in the Lord. So those are the pictures of salvation that we're given. And then we're given these truths about God. He's the one who will take an abundant place of wealth and fruitfulness and turn it into a desert and a salty waste because of the evil of its inhabitants. And he's also the one who will take a desert place and a parched land. and turn it into a place of abundant water and give the hungry and the lonely and the afflicted a place to dwell and a city to live in and blessing because of their crying out to him. Notice it doesn't say he does it because of their goodness. He does the first one because of their sin. But he doesn't do the second one because of our goodness. He does the second one because we cry out to him, and he is good. Right? We are either trusting in our own goodness, which is just sin and will be under the judgment of God, or we're looking to him for his goodness. And so whenever we are diminished or brought low, God God protects us. God delivers us. He doesn't just save us and then say, Well, you're on your own now. I've given you good food. I've given you a city to dwell in. I've brought you out of prison, right? I've calmed the storm of the turmoil in your life. Now you're on your own. No, he continues to watch over his own. He continues to keep us. And so the closing line, whoever is wise, let him attend to these things. Let them consider the steadfast love of the Lord. And that's the call for us. If we've been saved, if we've known God's goodness and grace, we are to attend to these things. We're to consider How it is that we were hungry and thirsty, but God satisfied us with the righteousness that only Christ has. How it was that we were imprisoned and in bondage, but God set us free. from our sin and bondage to corruption. How it is that we were insane, we were out of our minds, and we didn't want the truth of God, but God gave us his word and fed us and gave us right minds. How it was that we were storm tossed and lost on the sea, trying to chase after wealth, and we were just in turmoil and God gave us peace. And if you don't know that yet If you're here and you're like, well, I still feel like I'm in prison, I still feel like I'm in the desert, I still still feel like I'm storm-tossed, look to the Lord. It's not about your own goodness. It's about crying out to the Lord for deliverance and trusting in his steadfast love, in his hesed. He's the one who brings deliverance. We can praise his name. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we thank you so much for this word that you've given us this morning from Psalm 107, and these wonderful pictures of salvation. Oh, how lost, and how lonely, and how afflicted, and how in bondage, and how in darkness, and how hungry, and how crazy, and how unstable our lives would be without you. Even if we've known you all of our lives, even if we were raised in a Christian family, even if we don't necessarily remember a time when we hated your word or were rebelling against you openly, Father, that's where we would be without you. That's where we would be if it had not been for your steadfast love. But you have saved us. You have redeemed us. You have called us your own. You have fed us and clothed us and given us a right mind. and set us free from bondage, and given us a city to dwell in, and given us an inheritance among the saints. And you protect us and you provide for us day by day. You are so good. Let us remember how good you are, and let us give thanks to you throughout the day today. We pray this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. I needed that encouragement this morning, and I hope it was a blessing to you too.