Good morning and welcome to week two, day two of our Scripture and Carol's Advent Devotionals for 2020. I'm Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Today brings us to another ancient Carol of the church, Let all Mortal Flesh Keep Silent. Yesterday I said that of the Father's Love Begotten is the oldest Christmas carol and the oldest hymn that we sing. Well, this one is giving it a run for its money. It's from about the same time period. Trying to pin down the exact origins of Let All Mortal Flesh Keep Silent is a little bit fuzzy and vague. We have a really good understanding. of who wrote of the Father's Love Begotten and when it was written. And so we can pin it down to that 403 to 413 pretty precisely. This one comes from the Liturgy of St. James, which could go back to the 4th century, which would be the 300s, which would make it older than of the Father's Love Begotten, but it might not be that old And we're not 100% sure. We know that it was definitely in use as part of this liturgy by the 400s, so it's kind of contemporaneous with of the Father's Love Be God. Anyway, let's pray and we'll look into the scripture and the history and the theology of this wonderful Carol, this wonderful Advent hymn. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son Jesus into the world. We are so blessed. So blessed. We thank you for the gift of life that we have in him. We thank you for your love for us. We pray that you would teach us today from your word and move our hearts to have a deeper reverence and a more joyful all for Christ our Savior, the Word of God made flesh, come to earth to save us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Scriptural background for Let All Mortal Flesh Keep Silence comes from a couple of Old Testament prophets Habakkuk 2. 20 and Zechariah 2. 13. Habakkuk 2. 20 says, But the Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silence before him. In Zechariah 2. 13, be silent all flesh before the Lord, for he has roused himself from his holy dwelling. The response to God's holiness, the response to his power, the response to his glory from us should be humility. silence and an eager desire to reverence him in our hearts I could also have put in Hebrews 13 that says, Let us worship God with reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. But who God is in his holy temple and rousing himself from his holy dwelling is most manifest when he came from heaven to earth in the incarnation And the call of both of these prophets to the Lord being in his holy temple and the Lord is rousing himself from his holy dwelling is to be silent. Silence as a reverence and an awe and a fear of the Lord and a humble approach to worship Let all mortal flesh keep silence comes from the Liturgy of St. James. Now this is, again, it's one of the oldest If not the oldest hymns that are still in use today, could be the oldest, certainly one of the oldest. It's adapted from the Liturgy of St. James. It's called the Liturgy of St. James because one tradition is that James The younger half-brother of Jesus, who wrote the book of James, was the one who first put together this liturgy, this pattern for worship. Maybe, maybe not. It seems to have come out of the third or fourth or fifth centuries. It's very, very early, of course. Now, during this liturgy There was the Lord's Supper, or the Eucharist, right? Eucharist simply means giving thanks. Eucharisto is is a is a thankfulness to God for the body and blood of Christ. And so it's a Eucharistic prayer. During the liturgy, that is the origin for this, for the words of let all mortal flesh keep silence. The point is that we approach communion with a sense of awe and reverence for Jesus Himself. as well as the awe and reverence for being a part of this communion meal with Jesus. And as it's the body and blood of Christ, it reminds us of the incarnation. And so we are to approach the Lord the same way the angels approach the Lord, which is with silence. And with reverence, as you know, the angels cover their faces and cover their feet, and when they do speak, it's of the holiness of God. They're just not chitter-chattering about their own desires. So the original text was called the Divine Words of the Angels in Human Language. At the time it was written in Greek, and the liturgy itself is still in use today still in use today after 1600, 1700 years, by Syriac and Indian Catholic and Orthodox churches. What we have is a translation from the Greek that was made by Gerard Moultrie in 1864, so during the later years of the Civil War. So even that part is old, but the original Greek is far older. Let all mortal flesh keep silence, and with fear and trembling stand. Ponder nothing, earthly minded, for with blessing in his hand, Christ our God to earth descendeth, our full homage to demand. King of kings, yet born of Mary, as of old on earth he stood, Lord of Lords, in human vesture, in the body and the blood He will give to all the faithful his own self for heavenly food. You can see here the Eucharist, the Lord's Supper communion coming in here. That's what Christ does for us in the Lord's Supper. He gives himself for heavenly food. It's not earthly food. It's not about the physical substance of the bread and the wine, but it's the heavenly food of Christ feeding our souls with his body and blood. The angels, rank on rank, the host of heaven, spreads its vanguard on the way, as the light of light descendeth From the realms of endless day, that the powers of hell may vanish and the darkness clear away At his feet, the six-winged seraph, cherubim with sleepless eye veil their faces to the presence As with ceaseless voice they cry, Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia, Lord Most High. Well, in the early 1900s, this translation of this ancient prayer was set to music that was written by the great composer Ralph Vaughan Williams. And that's the version that we sing today. So while it's an old carol, it hasn't been sung to the tune that we sing it to. for for as long, only for about a hundred and ten or a hundred and twenty years or so. So let's hear it now together. Let all mortal flesh keep silence Oh no I want to create him, I'm not gonna Oh no, what will we do? What will do?