Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Today we're in the second half of Luke 23, looking at a little longer section, verses 26 to 56. Very important section. We're dealing with the death of Jesus today. most wonderfully profound and dark and wonderful moment in human history. And we're asking these questions, what happened to Jesus after he died on the cross and what happens to believers when we die? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. We come now to a profound passage in the Gospel of Luke. We pray that your Holy Spirit would reveal the truth to us and write it on our hearts. and move us to know and understand and love Jesus better. We pray this in his name. Amen. Luke 23, verses 26 to 56. And as they led him away, they seized one Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, and laid on him the cross to carry it behind Jesus. And there followed him a great multitude of the people and of women who were mourning and lamenting for him. But turning to them, Jesus said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me. but weep for yourselves and for your children, for behold, the days are coming when they will say, Blessed are the barren, and the wounds that never bore, and the breast that never nursed. Then they will begin to say to the mountains, fall on us, and to the hills, cover us. For if they do these things when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry? Two others, who were criminals, were led away to be put to death with him. And when they came to the place that is called the skull, there they crucified him, and the criminals, one on his right, one on his left. And Jesus said, Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. And they cast lots to divide his garments, and the people stood by watching, but the rulers scoffed at him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself. If he is the Christ of God, his chosen one. The soldiers also mocked him coming up and offering him sour wine and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. There was also an inscription over him, This is the King of the Jews. One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us! But the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God? Since you are under the same sentence of condemnation, and we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward for our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And he said to him, Truly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. It was now about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour, while the sun's light failed. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two. Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And having said this, he breathed his last. Now, when the centurion saw what had taken place, he praised God, saying, Certainly this man was innocent. And all the crowds that had assembled for this spectacle, when they saw what had taken place, returned home, beating their breasts And all his acquaintances and the women who had followed him from Galilee stood at a distance watching these things. Now there was a man named Joseph from the Jewish town of Arimathea. He was a member of the council, a good and righteous man, who had not consented to their decision and action. And he was looking for the kingdom of God. This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then he took it down and wrapped it in a linen shroud and laid him in a tomb cut in stone where no one had ever yet been laid. It was the day of preparation And the Sabbath was beginning. The women who had come with him from Galilee followed and saw the tomb and how his body was laid. Then they returned and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbath day they rested according to the commandment. It's amazing how much we can take away from a very brief conversation recorded for us in Luke's Gospel. When Jesus was crucified, he was on a cross between two criminals, one on his right, the other on his left. While Jesus was surrounded by mocking crowds of people, one of the criminals joined in the mockery Even as this man was hanging on his own cross fighting to breathe, he chose to use some of his last breath to ridicule Jesus. Meanwhile, on the other side, the other criminal was aware of the fact that he deserved death and Jesus didn't. Then amazingly, the dying criminal looks at the dying Jesus of Nazareth and believes. He believes that Jesus is the Christ and that even though he's dying on a Roman cross, he will still come into his kingdom. And so he asks Jesus to remember him when he does come into his kingdom. Jesus responds simply, humbly, and powerfully, today I say to you, you will be with me in paradise. In this brief exchange between dying men, we have three vital questions answered What happened to Jesus after he died? It's evident that after Jesus died, his body was taken down from the cross and laid in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea. However, Jesus himself in his soul went to paradise. We know this because he promised the criminal, Today you will be with me in paradise Secondly, what happens to believers when we die? Do our souls sleep in the grave unconscious until the day of resurrection? No Like Jesus, while our bodies are buried, our souls are with the Lord in paradise. This proves that we have a soul that lives apart from our body when our body dies. and that we go to the presence of God when our bodies die, if, question three, what must we do to be saved? The criminal on the cross could do nothing but believe in Jesus and ask him for salvation. He could do no works. He could not be baptized. Thus, he shows us the minimum and essential requirement for salvation, saving faith. Saving faith is the God-given ability to see Jesus for who he is and to trust in him alone for salvation. So we too will be with the Lord in paradise when we die if We believe in Jesus and trust in Him alone for our salvation. One of the ways we can see that the Bible is the Word of God. Is how much we can learn from what seems like just a simple conversation. But in reality, a whole world of answers opens up to us in every line of God's amazing book. Let's go to Psalm 146. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. I will praise the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man in whom there is no salvation. When his breath departs, he returns to the earth. On that very day his plans perish. Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God, who made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them, who keeps faith for ever Who executes justice for the oppressed, who gives food to the hungry, the Lord sets the prisoners free, the Lord opens the eyes of the blind. The Lord lifts up those who are bowed down. The Lord loves the righteous. The Lord watches over the sojourners. He upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin. The Lord will reign forever. Your God, O Zion, to all generations, praise the Lord. Let's pray Lord God, you are alone the one who can save us, because you alone are the one who could hang on a cross and say with confidence and simplicity, Today you will be with me in paradise. Because Lord Jesus, you knew even while you were on that cross, that you're stronger than death, you're stronger than sin, you're stronger than hell, you're stronger than the devil, you're stronger than the The rulers and authorities of this world, you are the ultimate overcomer And we overcome by faith in you. Thank you. Help us to trust in you and not in any of the passing and failing things of this world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We're going to move on to resurrection tomorrow. Hope you can join me for Luke 24. Have a blessed day in the Lord.