Romans chapter 8, verses 5 to 13 is our scripture passage for today as we continue through this wonderful chapter in God's holy word. Romans chapter 8, verses 5 to 13. Hear now the word of God. I'll actually start in verse 1. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, He condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. For it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. For those who are of the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you, anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors. Not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this word. It is powerful. It is life-giving. It is breathed out by you for our good and for your glory. Please speak to us in these coming minutes as we meditate on your word. May your spirit work powerfully in our hearts and our lives for your glory and our good. In Jesus' name, amen. You may be seated. Well, Romans 8 begins with the stirring, wonderful gospel proclamation that there is, therefore, now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus Later on, as we continue through this chapter, we'll get to other very famous, very well-known verses about how God works everything for good for those who love Him and who are called according to His purpose. And then it ends with this wonderful declaration that there's nothing that can separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus. And in between we have this passage, which is not maybe the most familiar part of Romans 8. It's maybe not the most soul stirring, but is actually incredibly powerful and practical and helpful. It leads us to ask this question, which is perhaps the most important question that we can ask in a very practical way. And the question is, what is the guiding principle that drives your life? That shapes your decision making in both a positive way and a negative way. Now we're in church, and it's Sunday morning And you might just say, my faith in God shapes everything I do. But what does that look like? How does that work itself out, practically speaking? What does that mean on a Tuesday afternoon at three o'clock? What drives your life? In other words, positively speaking, what motivates you to do what you do? And negatively speaking, what keeps you from doing the things that you don't do? What is it? The default human position, the one that we're all born into the world with, is self-interest Human beings are motivated to do what they do, to either get something they want that they don't yet have, or to keep something they have that they don't want to lose. Salespeople know this. They know that if you want to sell something to somebody, you either have to promise them something they want that they don't yet have or promise them a way of holding on to and keeping something. that they don't want to lose. So there are certain hair care products for men that will promise that you will hold on to what you don't want to lose. And there are other certain products that will maybe help you lose what you want to lose, a little bit of extra around the middle perhaps. But this is kind of the way, this is just default human nature. And honestly, as believers, if our answer to that, what drives your life can't really rise above that, well, there's stuff that I want, and so I work hard so that I can get it. There's stuff I don't want to lose, so I work hard to make sure I don't lose it. How are our lives fundamentally different, practically speaking, than the lives of unbelievers? Well Ephesians 2. 3 would describe this default way of living life as carrying out the desires of the flesh and of the mind. What do I do? I do what I want to do. What do I avoid doing? I avoid doing what I don't want to do. Why do I do it? So I can get what I want and keep what I have. And if that's all there is to it, That's really living according to the flesh. But if you are in Christ Jesus, you know that there's more to life than that. And you know that there's more that drives your life than that if you are in Christ Jesus. Ezekiel 36, that we read as our call to worship, says that God has taken out your heart of stone and he's given you a heart of flesh. So that we can be his people and he will be our God. And to have God as your God means something. It means that when the Holy Spirit changes our hearts, a new operating principle comes into view. And that is what will glorify God. How can I glorify God in my life? How can I love God better? How can I love other people better? How can I become more like Jesus? That begins to operate in our lives as a new guiding principle. But here's the thing: we still live in a body. And we still have a remaining remnant of a sinful nature that is still conditioned in that old way of life. And so there's still this competition of like, well, but I still want to do what I want to do be for my own pleasure. And so the point is this When the Holy Spirit works that change in our hearts, it does take place at a moment in time when regeneration happens, when we are born again. The heart of stone is taken out, the heart of flesh is put in, and yet what the Holy Spirit does in our hearts in a moment of time takes a lifetime to work itself out into our lives. As Paul says in Philippians 2, 12 and 13, therefore work out your salvation with fear and trembling, knowing that it is God who works in you. both to will and to do according to his good pleasure. What God works in you, work it out. And how long does that take? It takes the rest of our lives until finally, at our glorification, we match inside and out what Christ has done for us. So our first point today in verses 5 to 8 is a simple one. And that is, if our life is driven by our flesh, it is impossible to please God That's what verses 5 to 8 says. If our life is driven by our flesh, it is impossible to please God. Listen to these verses again. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Paul's describing here two fundamentally opposed, basic mindsets. A mind set on the flesh versus a mind set on the spirit. What does it mean to have a mind set on the flesh? Well, to understand this, we have to understand what Paul means by flesh. And what Paul means by flesh is not our physical bodies, although the word can sometimes mean that. He doesn't mean just we're hungry and so we eat food, we're tired and so we rest, we're weak and so we exercise to get stronger. He doesn't mean our physical bodies. Rather, what he means is our default human nature in a fallen condition. And the reason why he talks about flesh and uses a word that can be used of the body is that our natural appetites can be a good picture of this. Why why do you do what your natural what your appetites tell you to do? Because they're telling you to do it. And you want to do it. I'm tired. I'm gonna go sleep. I'm hungry. I'm gonna go eat. We do those things because it's just natural. And it's also very self-centered. We're not thinking about others when we're eating because we're hungry. We're not thinking about others when we rest because we're tired. We're just thinking about ourselves. And so that's a good image of it, but we need to be careful not to limit it to just our bodies. This is not a body-soul dualism thing where everything that belongs to the physical body is bad and everything that belongs to to the soul is good. That's not really a biblical understanding. Because two different ways. One is God made our bodies. And we need to take care of our bodies. And there's nothing wrong, there's nothing immoral, there's nothing unpleasing to God about eating a healthy diet. and getting enough sleep at night and getting enough water during the day and exercising regularly because you're taking care of your body. There's nothing sinful about that. There's also nothing spiritual. Some people have gone down this pathway. There's nothing spiritual about saying, well I'm just going to starve myself and beat myself up, and that's how I'm going to please God with my life. So you have literally had Christians who have like whipped themselves with whips and gone on extended fast until they're completely emaciated. They think that that's how they're pleasing God. That's a totally warped and distorted misunderstanding of what Paul's saying. There's also a flip side to it, and that is that some of our worst sins, in fact our worst sins, are not because of our physical body, they're because of the fallen condition of our soul Pride is the worst sin. And pride is not something that just arises as a natural appetite. It's a sin of the spirit, of the soul. So is covetousness. So is envy and gossip and slander. So we could miss a whole wide category of sin if we think reductionistically that flesh just means our body. But it does mean a merely natural way of living, a living that is selfish, that thinks only about what I want. That basically says, I want what I want, and I want it now, and I'm going to do what I have to do to get it. And that way of living leads to death. Paul says the mindset on the flesh is death. Why? Because God is the only source of life. And the mindset on the flesh is not thinking about God, is not reaching toward God, is not living for God, is not communing with God. This fleshly mindset actually views God as an enemy or an obstacle, someone to be resisted or avoided. And to further clarify, one of the best ways to live according to the flesh is in religion. Man-made religion or human effort-driven religion Because even the mindset that says, I want to go to heaven and I don't want to go to hell, I want to gain eternal life and I don't want to lose my life Therefore, I will do the things that are required of me to do. I will come to church. I will put 10% of my income in the plate. I will read my Bible. Because by doing these things I will earn a place in heaven and I will avoid going to hell. If that is the mindset That is a man-made religion mindset, that is a mindset of the flesh, and that cannot please God. Martin Luther, the great reformer, lived under that mindset as a monk for years before he really came to know the grace of God in Jesus Christ. And Luther famously said about himself, looking back on those days, if ever there was a monk who could be saved by monkery, I was that monk. He was good. He did the monkish things very monkly. He, when he went on pilgrimage to Rome, he didn't just go on pilgrimage to Rome, but he climbed up the steps on his knees. And every step he said an Our Father and a Hail Mary. And he fasted and he went to confession so much that his confessor said, Luther, would you just please come back when you have some actual sins to confess? But when he looked back on that time of his life, and people said, Well, did you love God? He said, Love God. I hated him. He was afraid of him, didn't trust him, and wanted to make sure he wasn't going to be on his bad side. So he was doing everything he could do to pay him off, to get him to get off his back. Religion that is driven by the flesh and is self-righteous cannot please God. On the other hand, only when we surrender our self-determination, only when we turn to Jesus for salvation, will we really find life and peace. And that's because life and peace come from God. And they're given freely through Jesus Christ. Only the life lived according to the Spirit is life and peace, because God alone is the source of that life and peace. They're found in Jesus Christ. They're found nowhere else. As C. S. Lewis famously said, God cannot give us happiness and peace apart from Himself because it is not there. There is no such thing. Why can't God just give us eternal life, make us happy, give us peace, and then leave us alone? You're asking for the impossible. Those things are only found in Christ, in the Lord. Paul emphasizes here a doctrine that's called total inability He states twice in this passage that the fleshly mind cannot submit itself to God's law and cannot please God. This is not a physical inability, but it's a moral and spiritual inability. It's like someone who becomes an addict, and then they're so consumed and controlled by their addiction that they cannot stop. There is physical stuff going on in the brain, but there's also a sort of chosen at the beginning and then moral slavery that only the grace of God can break. The life of those who don't know Christ is a life of being spiritually dead. And they cannot please God because they don't have spiritual life in and of themselves. The good news comes in verse 9. And verses 9 to 11 reassure us that every believer has the Spirit. and is thus assured of eternal life. Verses 9 to 11. You, however, are not in the flesh. If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to Him But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead lives in you, He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. The distinguishing mark of a true Christian is the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit, who guarantees our present spiritual life and our future resurrection, both of which the Bible involves. when it says that we have eternal life. We have eternal life now in the Spirit. We've been made alive and we will never die again. We will have eternal life when our bodies are raised from the dead. The Holy Spirit in us guarantees both of those things. And here's the key truth that's easy to miss as we read this part of Romans 8. Listen up, because this is so important. I missed this the first many times I read through Romans 8. The fact that Paul begins verse 9 with the words you, however means that verses 5 through 8, when they describe the life lived according to the flesh, is not describing the life of any true believer in Christ. If you are a believer in Christ, you do not live according to the flesh. You don't. Because it says, you, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you, anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to Him. So there's really only two types of people in the world. Those who don't have Christ and those who do. Those who don't have Christ are those who live according to the flesh. Those who do have Christ are those who live according to the Spirit. This is not When you read 5 to 8, it's easy to say like, oh, I've got to stop living according to the flesh, and I've got to start living according to the spirit. Actually, no. The Holy Spirit, when you get born again and He puts you in Christ and puts Christ in you, you stop living according to the flesh and you start living according to the Spirit. That is something God does in you and for you. The question becomes, are we going to live that out consistently in our lives or not? So we do have a part to play in this, but It's not up to us to say, oh, I've got to stop living according to the flesh and I've got to start living according to the Spirit. That is what God does for us in salvation. If you are in Christ by faith, if you believe in Jesus Christ for your salvation, if he is your Lord, And you are his. Then you have the spirit. That means something else. I know I said it, but I want to make sure you heard it. Every believer in Jesus Christ has the Holy Spirit. There are some forms of Christianity that teach that the Holy Spirit is some extra gift that certain believers get who are super holy or there's a a second blessing of grace that might come when you get the Holy Spirit. No. If you are in Christ, then you have the Spirit of Christ. The Spirit of Christ dwells in you. It's really impossible to come to faith in Jesus without the Holy Spirit. How does a dead person come to life? Only the resurrection power of God causes that to happen. The Bible tells us that if we're out of Christ, we are dead in our sins So to be in Christ and to be alive to God takes the work of the Holy Spirit. So if you believe in Jesus Christ, if you've come to faith in Jesus Christ, it is not apart from the Holy Spirit working in you. And if you are in Christ, you have that Holy Spirit. You have the Holy Spirit living in you. Now, even for the believer, what Paul says next is true. Although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness, we still have a body that is dead and dying In 2 Corinthians 4. 16, Paul puts it this way, he says, we do not lose heart Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. How many of you can testify today that your outer self is wasting away? Amen. But it's just as true that your inner self is being renewed day by day. It is just as true that the Spirit who is in you is life because of Jesus Christ. And that life is eternal life, and it means you will never perish. But there is even more good news than that, because our salvation is not just for our inner man. Our future hope is not just that when this outer man has wasted away to nothing, our spirit will go and be with God forever. There's more to it. The Spirit will raise our bodies from the dead when Christ comes again. We will get a resurrection body and we will be forever alive. With God in the new heavens and the new earth with a glorified spirit and a glorified body, a body that will not waste away. How many of you are looking forward to that day? A body that will never have back pain, a body that will never have cancer, a body that will never have heart issues, a body that will never need abdominal surgery, a body that will just be strong and healthy the way that God intended. forever and ever. That is the future destiny of all who belong to Jesus Christ. And God's Spirit in us is the guarantee That just as he has brought us from death to life in our spirits, so he will bring us from death to life in our bodies on that day. So based upon all that Verses 12 and 13 lead us to the conclusion to what we're supposed to do now. That's why it starts with, so then. You're not in the flesh if you belong to Jesus. You're in the spirit. Now what? Well, here's the now what. Verses 12 and 13. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. The only way to kill sin is by the power of the Spirit. And we must be killing sin, or sin will be killing us. Paul argues that believers owe the flesh absolutely nothing. Now, the flesh is a noisy, noisy beast. It makes a lot of demands, but we don't owe it anything. We've been transferred to a new master. We have a new destiny. The flesh is still around, the flesh still makes its demands, but we are under no obligation to give in to the demands of the flesh. We are under obligation, because of the grace of God, to give in to the leading of the Spirit, to walk in the Spirit If we live according to the Spirit, we need to walk in the Spirit. I'm actually glad that Sean overrode my decision and read to the end of Galatians 5, because he got to the part where it's like What is our obligation now? Well, if we're alive in the Spirit, keep in step with the Spirit. Walk in the Spirit. You gotta live out what God's put in you. And it does have dire consequences. Because sin, while we are free from The condemnation that sin gives, and while we are free from the mastery that sin makes in our lives, sin is still sin. It's still nasty, nasty business. Imagine for a moment, I would put a vivid image in your head, hopefully. Kids, you pay attention to this one. Imagine if from birth You were fed nothing but dog food. And rotten dog food at that. Okay. We uh our dog, he gets mostly dry food with a little bit of wet food mixed in. And uh, you know, once the wet food's open, you gotta keep it in the refrigerator and One time it got left out, somebody forgot to put it away, and Jeremiah's like, what do we do with this wet dog food that got left out? You gotta throw that away. But imagine it didn't get thrown away. And it stinks, it's got flies. I'm trying to put an image in your head here. And you've been fed that every day from birth. We say, oh, that would make me sick. Of course it would make you sick. You get sick on a regular basis, but that's just part of your life. It's all you've known. And then finally, someone comes along and they say, I'm going to set you free from this miserable existence. I'm going to take you out of this place of captivity where you've been fed nothing but rotting dog food your entire life and it's made you sick over and over and over again and you're malnourished. And I'm going to bring you into a good home, and I'm going to give you, I'm going to bathe you and cleanse you and give you good food to eat. Think about it. If all you've ever eaten your entire life is rotten dog food, do you think the good food that is set before you is initially going to taste good? No. It'll taste strange. It it might be hard to chew, especially like if someone gave you a salad. It might be like, oh, this is so hard to chew. In fact, your your body might have a hard time digesting it at first because of because of the things that it's been used to for so long. But over time, Your appetite will grow to appreciate the good food. Your body will grow to digest the good food and you'll get healthier and you'll get stronger. But every once in a while, you'll catch the whiff of the dog food that's being fed to the dog And you might think, Oh, maybe I'll have some of that. I remember I still like that stuff. It's dog food. It's rotten dog food. It's not good for you. So we have to be killing sin. Because it's sin. Not because we're trying to earn God's favor. Not because we're trying to earn our way to heaven. Not because we think God will like us more if we do or don't do it. I mean imagine if you relapsed and you ate the dog food in that situation. Do you think the person who rescued you from that life is going to say, That's it. I'm not having anything more to do with you. No, they're going to say, Oh, I'm so sorry. This you know, let's get rid of that. Let's get you back on the right path. Let's Get you treated for whatever illness you have now. This call to kill sin by the power of the Spirit, it is not a call to a self-reliant legalism. To try harder? Because if we try harder and we're fighting sin in our own strength, that's actually a form of pride and false religion. There are some people who think, well If I make a list of things and I do those things, then I will overcome sin. That's not good enough, although there are things that we need to do. We need to learn by the Spirit to live out the truth of who we are in Christ. Another image of this that's more realistic to what we see in actual life. is sometimes we will see a grown adult acting in a way that is childish. We would never, of course, be the grown adult acting in a way that is childish, but we might see it in others. They're being whiny. They're being impatient. They're being demanding. They're throwing a temper tantrum. They're having a pity party. And what do we say or think? Stop being so childish. Why do we say that? Why do we tell them stop being so childish? Or why do we think, man, I wish they would stop being so childish? Do we think or say that when a three-year-old acts that way? No. We think they probably need a nap or they might need something to eat. Jeremiah, when he was three or four years old, he would get destructively hangry. That boy would get hangry and stuff would break. But we didn't say Grow up! Get some self-control! Stop being so childish, you four-year-old. We would recognize, oh, he hasn't eaten in a while. He's got low blood sugar. We recognize this. This is that special way that he gets when he hasn't had. And so We would give 'em some quick usually something that's sweet so it would dick get a quick fix in there Now we would train him how to have self-control, how to ask for food when he's hungry, how to recognize these things, because Jeremiah is going to be 19 on Thursday. Oh my. How did that happen? Alright. But you know, this week, Jeremiah turning 19 on Thursday, if he gets hangry and starts knocking things over and throwing things around the room We're going to have an issue. That's going to be different. Because we're like, quit being childish. You are 19 years old. You know where the refrigerator is. And so this is us spiritually. Like God says to us, stop being childish. You're not a child. You're not only selfish. You're not to live according to the flesh. So let me close. This with some practical advice. How can we kill sin by the power of the Spirit? We say we by the power of the Spirit put sin to death. How do we do that? First of all, why should we do it? I'm going to give you these quickly. Seven reasons why we must, and I'll send this manuscript out later by email. I forgot to bring a sermon follow-up guide. We were a little bit busy yesterday. Seven reasons we must kill sin. First of all, it is a destructive cancer on God's good creation. It is destructive. Second, it is highly addictive and enslaving. Third, it is offensive to God, who hates sin, and how it mars his creation and divides his people. Fourth, it short circuits our fruitfulness and our effectiveness. It ruins ministries, marriages, and testimonies. How many of you have witnessed sin? ruin a ministry or a marriage or a testimony. Fifth, it is entirely contrary to God's holy character, which we are being transformed to reflect. Sixth, it poisons all of our relationships through pride, envy, gossip, and deception. And seventh, it can shipwreck the faith and lives of professing believers. We must kill sin. This isn't about legalism. You've got to earn your way to heaven. This is about knowing sin is still sin and it's awful stuff and we must kill it. How? First, by the power of God. We cannot fight sin in our own strength, and attempting to do so is prideful. We need God's power. We can't just say, well, I know better, and so I'm going to do better. Mm-mm. That's pride. We need God's power. We need to apply the gospel. Secondly, we need to remember who we are in Christ, and we need to meditate on God's promises. That motivate us toward holiness. I am in Christ. I am a child of God. I have the Holy Spirit. Satan will come at you with the counter to that, by the way. He will come at you with, you call yourself a Christian. You think you're really a Christian? You think those kind of thoughts? You say, I am a Christian. I am a child of God. I have the Holy Spirit. I have been adopted by God. I have been justified. This is who I am. Thirdly, we do it through radical self-denial. Jesus said, if your right eye causes you to sin, close it temporarily. It'll go away. Nope, he didn't say that. He said if your right eye causes you to sin, gouge it out, throw it away. If your right hand causes you to sin, chop it off. Now we we say, oh, he's not literally talking about gouging out your right eye and calling off. Yeah, that's true. He's not literally, but he doesn't mean less than that If there is something in your life that causes you to stumble, get rid of it. Get rid of it. Radical self denial. Even things that oh but I enjoy that oh and it's got so many good things about it. Well If it's causing you to stumble, get rid of it. Figure out how to get it out of your life. If you want help with that, the elders would be happy to talk to you. I'd be happy to talk to you. If you've got a particular item like, I don't know how to deal with this, I'll be happy to help you with it. But so that's by the power of God, by applying the gospel, through radical self-denial, fourth confession. Confession. James tells us, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. We need to push past the fear of losing faith and confess our sins to one another that we may be healed. I'm having a really hard time with this sin in my life. Would you pray for me? Go to a more mature believer or a fellow believer in Christ and say, I'm really having a hard time with this Would you pray for me? And that person will pray for you. And maybe they'll even have some advice of like what they've done to overcome that. We need each other. Fifth, prayer. Prayer alone, prayer in groups, prayer in corporate worship, prayer, prayer, prayer. Sixth, the word of God. Being in the Word, studying the Bible, meditating on Scripture, memorizing Scripture, it exposes our sin, it reveals Christ, it trains us in righteousness. And seventh, worship and fellowship. No soldier fights alone. We need the body of Christ. To worship, serve, and live together. Now I just gave you seven things. And you might say, I have a hard time remembering seven things. By the power of God, applying the gospel, radical self-denial, confess Pray, get the Word of God, worship and fellowship. How am I going to remember seven things? Let me just give you one word. Connect. Connect. Connect to God through His Word and through prayer. Connect to one another through confessing your sins to one another and praying for one another. Connect to worship every Lord's Day. Don't miss being here. Connect more. Come to Sunday school. Come to Bible study. Connect, connect, connect. You're connecting to your power source in the Holy Spirit when you're praying and you're spending time in the Word and you're worshiping together with God's people. You're connecting with God's people who are your brothers and sisters in the battle. And who will pray for you and you will pray for them. Satan wants to get you alone. and relying on yourself. Because when you are alone and relying on yourself, you are a sucker. And you will not stand. But he knows that the more you connect to God and the more you connect to God's people, the stronger you are, and the harder you are to attack. God loves us. God's given us his spirit because he loves us. And his love for us is never going to abandon us. But sin is a restless enemy. And as long as we're in this flesh, in this body, We need to keep doing warfare and keep killing sin by the power of God so that God will be more and more glorified in our lives and we will experience more of the joy and the freedom that Christ died and rose again to give us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the gift of life that you've given us in your Son, Jesus Christ. There is no condemnation. for those who are in Christ Jesus. Thank you for the gift of the abiding presence of the Holy Spirit. If we are in Christ, we have your Holy Spirit living in us. And we live according to the Spirit. We do. But Father, it is easy. Far too easy. To fall back into old habits and old patterns of life that no longer define who we are. We pray for your Holy Spirit. Speak to us through your word. Empower us through prayer and fellowship and worship. Strengthen us. That by the sword of the Spirit we might put to death the deeds of the flesh, to the glory of your name, and to the freedom and joy of your people. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.