Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 29th week and our second day We're in Luke 20. We're coming kind of close to the end of the Gospel of Luke, just a few more weeks left in this wonderful Gospel, and then we'll be in the Gospel of John. Just as a heads up, we're going to be finishing the Psalms with the Gospel of Luke. And when we go into John, it's going to be a little bit different in that it's just going to be uh daily devotional on the gospel of John and it's not going to be a written out devotional uh necessarily it's just gonna be me speaking uh from the heart about a gospel that I love very much. Love them all, of course. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to Luke 20, verses 27 to 47 today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and for your faithfulness. Father, we pray that you would write your word upon our hearts. That you would be our teacher and our guide, that you would glorify Christ in and through our lives as we think about you. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. So the key question we're asking today here in Luke 20 is what will life be like after the resurrection? What will life be like after the resurrection? And this is a great question, and we're doing a Sunday school class starting on Sunday, September 7th, where we're going to be exploring questions like this in a Sunday school class called Preparing for Glory. So let's look at Luke 20, 27 to 47. There came to him some Sadducees, those who deny that there is a resurrection. And they asked him a question, saying, Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies, having a wife but no children, the man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife and died without children, and the second and the third took her, and likewise all seven left no children and died. Afterward the woman also died. In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will the woman be? For the seven had her as wife. And Jesus said to them, The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage, but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and to the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage, for they cannot die any more, because they are equal to angels and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection. But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed in the passage about the bush, where he calls the Lord the God of Abraham. And the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. Now he is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for all live to him. Then some of the scribes answered, Teacher, you have spoken well, for they no longer dared to ask him any question. But he said to them, How can they say that the Christ is David's son? For David himself says in the book of Psalms, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. David that thus calls him Lord, how is he his son? And in the hearing of all the people, he said to his disciples, Beware of the scribes. who like to walk around in long robes and love greetings in the marketplaces and the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts. who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers, they will receive the greater condemnation. So what will life be like after the resurrection? What will heaven be like? How can we know? What is life like for those who have died? What will life be like after Jesus returns and the day of resurrection happens? Well, the truth is that the Bible doesn't tell us as much as we'd like to know about these kinds of questions. Why not? Well, the Bible isn't written to tell us everything we ever wanted to know about God and eternity. It tells us what we are to believe about God and what God requires of us. In other words, the Bible gives us everything we need to know to live a life of grace-empowered faith and obedience. Some people have not been convinced. Content with the relative lack of information from the Bible concerning heaven and the eternal state and the new heavens and the new earth. And that's why we've had best-selling books over the years claiming to report people's visits to heaven And they sell well, but they're not to be trusted. Here's what the Bible does tell us. First of all, When believers die, they are immediately ushered into the presence of God, even though their body remains here on earth This is affirmed by Jesus when he told the thief on the cross, Today you will be with me in paradise. Luke 23, 43. It was also affirmed by Paul, who taught that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord in 2 Corinthians 5. 8. Secondly, when Jesus returns, the dead will be raised, which means that their bodies will be resurrected. The just The believers will enter into everlasting life in body and soul with the Lord in the new heavens and the new earth. The unjust, the unbelievers. will also receive resurrection bodies, but they will be sent away from the presence of the Lord to everlasting judgment. 1 Thessalonians 4 verses 13 to 18 is a great passage for this, among others. And then the third thing, Jesus says from this passage, we will neither marry nor be given in marriage. at the resurrection in the new heavens in the new earth. We will have bodies, but they will be eternal spiritual bodies. Our bodies will never age, get sick, grow tired, or in any way wear out. The best picture we have of this is Jesus after his resurrection. Jesus is able to eat food and be embraced, but he can also pass through walls and quickly travel from one place to another Jesus remains in that same resurrection body today, 2,000 years later, and is not growing old. And fourth, most importantly, for the believer, after the resurrection, we will be completely free from all sin. We will have no desire to sin, and we will instead be with the Lord forever. For the believer, the very definition of eternal paradise is that we will be with Jesus and completely free from sin forever So the Bible may not tell us everything, but it tells us enough. Enough to make us hunger and thirst for that day, and enough for us to cry out, Come quickly, Lord Jesus. Let's turn our attention to Psalm 139. People like to tease me because I have a lot of favorite Psalms, and I'll often say this is one of my favorite Psalms, and they think I say about all of them. Well, this is my first favorite psalm, maybe other than Psalm 23 that I learned as a small child. But I remember as a youth and as a young adult, Psalm 139 became very precious to me in my late teens, early twenties. O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You hem me in behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it. Where shall I go from your spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night, even the darkness is not dark to you, for night is bright as the day For darkness is as light with you. For you formed my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them the days that were formed for me, when as yet there were none of them. How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them If I could count them, they are more than the sand. I awake and I'm still with you. Oh, that you would slay the wicked, O God. O men of blood, depart from me. They speak against you with malicious intent. Your enemies take your name in vain. Do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with complete hatred. I count them my enemies. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any grievous way in me. And lead me in the way everlasting. Let's pray. Oh Lord, it is a an astounding incomprehensible truth that you indeed know us this well. Before a word is on our tongue, you know it all together. You know our sitting down, our rising up or going out or coming in You're acquainted with all of our ways. You know us far better than we know ourselves. We don't always understand the hidden motivations and the reasons why we do things. We're sometimes surprised by words that come out of our own mouth. But you are never surprised because you know us that perfectly and that well. And your thoughts toward us are good. You formed us. You wrote our story in your book, every day of it. Your thoughts toward us are good and many. What can we even say in response to such wonderful good news? How can we even begin to live a life of of appropriate response? to such a God. Thank you seems so hollow and shallow. And so Lord, we will pray what you teach us to pray, and that is to invite you to search us. Search me, O God. and know my heart. Try me and know my anxious thoughts. See if there is any grievous way in me. And lead me in the way everlasting. We are known by you. We want to be known by you, and we want to honor you. So cleanse us and lead us today, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.