Amen. We're going to turn our attention to Isaiah 56. Isaiah 56. The Word of God Thus says the Lord, keep justice and do righteousness, for soon my salvation will come and my righteousness be revealed. Blessed is the man who does this, and the Son of Man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath, not profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil. Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from his people. And let not the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree. For thus says the Lord, to the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, who choose the things that please me and hold fast my covenant I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a name better than sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off And the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord to minister, and the first time, and the first time, and the first time, and the first time, and the first time, and the first time. Their burnt offerings. and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar, for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. The Lord God who gathers the outcast of Israel declares, I will gather yet others besides those already gathered. All you beasts of the field, come to devour, all you beasts in the forest, his watchmen Blind. They are all without knowledge. They are all silent dogs. They cannot bark, dreaming, laying down, loving to slumber. The dogs have a mighty appetite. They never have enough. But they are shepherds who have no understanding. They have all turned to their own way, each to his own gain, one and all. Come, they say. Let me get wine. Let us fill ourselves with strong drink. And tomorrow will be like this day, great beyond measure. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. It is powerful, it is convicting, it is encouraging. Because it shows us Christ, it shows us your will for us, it shows us ourselves. We pray that your Holy Spirit would work powerfully through your word in each one of our hearts that we might hear from you you and that you might do that work in us that you alone can do for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated Why you do something and how you do it is as important as what you do. We had our Valentine dinner last night, thinking about marriage and how we love one another within Within our marriage relationships, this is a good illustration here because God has said that we are his bride and he is our husband, and so how do we respond to the Lord in love. It matters as much why we do it and how we do it as what we do. So think about this for a minute. You have a husband Who knows that his wife loves flowers, and so he decides that he is going to bring his wife flowers every day. He gets home and there's fresh flowers every day and he she takes out the old ones, puts in the fresh ones, and he does this. He does this faithfully every day. And she's very she likes it, but uh after a while she's like, you know, why why do you why are you bringing me flowers every day? I mean I love flowers, but why are you bringing me flowers every day? And he says to her, well, you know, you are kind of temperamental. Sometimes you can just be really mean. And I figure I I don't know what's going to come flying at me when I walk in the door from work, so I better have some flowers in front of me to sort of appease the potential wrath that might be coming. And then she's like, wow. And then she says, you know, it it it it might must be pretty expensive though to be bringing flowers home every day. I'm not sure we can really afford this And I really didn't know that you thought that way about me. This is really very surprising. And he says, oh, don't worry about the expense. What I do is I just steal the flowers and I go around to different floral shops and grocery stores and I've gotten really good at it, so nobody catches me, so don't worry about the cost. What happened to the act of love? Why he was doing it and how he was doing it mattered just as much as what he was doing. Alright, so we're here in Isaiah, and we're at a pivot point in the book of Isaiah, and it's super important that we not forget where we've been and where we are. In Isaiah 53, we have the work of Christ for our redemption. We spent three weeks in that chapter. It's a wonderful chapter speaking of how Jesus lived a sinless life and he was despised and rejected, and he was He was humiliated and he was crucified for us, but then he rose again victorious and he intercedes for us. That's the foundation of our salvation And then chapter 54 talks about the benefits that we get, the blessings that flow. We get a joyful confidence because we know that we are redeemed in the Lord. We have a purposeful hope. for the future because we know that Christ who redeemed us um ha has given us meaning and and hope and and so we have this these benefits that flow to us from that work. And then Chapter fifty-five we looked at last week as the call for us to actually respond and come and receive the grace of God purchased for us by Christ. Come and it's pictured as eating and drinking wine and milk and and rich food by hearing the Word of God Which imparts to us by the Spirit working the grace that Jesus gives us. So then the question becomes, okay, so what does that look like? Now what? And that's where in chapters 56 to 58, which we're going to be in for the next couple of weeks, we're getting the now what. Practically speaking What does it look like to live by the grace that Jesus gives under his kingship for his glory? In the light of all that He has done for us. And there's two pitfalls that we really need to avoid if we're going to hear what's in these chapters properly. The pitfall number one. is to think that somehow these are the commands we're being given in order to earn God's favor, in order to earn salvation. Isaiah 53, salvation has already been accomplished. The work is finished. The other pitfall though is to think that we can just do these things on our own. Like this what we're called to do, just do it. We don't have within us the resources to be able to just do it. And so trying to just do it in our own flesh would be like stealing the flowers. from the shop. We don't have the resources to really get them. And so the grace that was being talked about last week of come and eat and drink And be satisfied by the grace of God that you get from being in the Word and being in worship and connecting to Christ. Jesus said, I'm the vine, you're the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he bears much fruit. For apart from me you can do nothing. You can imagine. a a branch that's lying on the ground in a vineyard and it sees the other branches connected to the vine really vitally bearing fruit and it thinks, I know that I'm supposed to bear fruit, I know that I'm a branch Let me just put out fruit and just fruit. Nothing's going to happen because there's no vital life flowing. So we need to know why we're doing this is because of what Christ has done for us. And we need to know how we're doing it is by his grace at work in us. So, with that in mind, this next section of 56 to 58 is going to have some challenging. practical things to say to us about the way we live as citizens of Christ's kingdom, as branches of the vine. We begin the first two verses with this general call. Thus says the Lord, keep justice and do righteousness. For soon my salvation will come, and my righteousness will be revealed. Blessed is the man who does this, and the Son of Man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath, not profaning it And keeps his hand from doing any evil. Verse one. Very critical, very foundational It shows us the relationship between what we're called to do and what God has already done and is going to do. So keep justice and do righteousness. For soon my salvation will come and my righteousness will be revealed. We're told to keep justice and do righteousness. Those are commands. First of all, to keep righteousness, the word keep there is to preserve that which has already been established. And to do righteousness is to act in a way that is righteous. Why are justice and righteousness at the forefront here? Why are those like the first two words of this whole section on living out in Christ's kingdom? Because Justice and righteousness are the foundation of his throne. We read that in Psalm 89 earlier. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Steadfast love and faithfulness go on. before you. It is it is the foundation of what God does, how he rules over his people, is in righteousness and justice. And then he acts toward us in steadfast love and faithfulness. God is always, always, always just and righteous. Because God is always all of his attributes. He's not just on Mondays and then merciful on Tuesdays and then righteous on Wednesdays. and then forgiving on Thursdays and wrathful on Fridays. No, he's he is always all of who he is. And at the foundation of his rule over creation over his people are these twin foundations of justice and righteousness. We keep justice. We maintain it. We're not establishing it. God has already established his justice at the cross. At the cross Sin was paid for, and the justice of God was established. But what is justice? How do we keep justice? Well, justice, biblically, treats people rightly. Justice is how we how we treat people. You treat people rightly. You ensure that rights are protected. That just and equitable standards are upheld. To be unjust is to deprive someone of something to which they are entitled under God's rule. So for us to keep justice is to treat people the way God has commanded us to treat them. To love one another to maintain the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace, to be at peace with one another, to not show partiality, to welcome one another. Philippians 2, verses 3 and 4 says, Do nothing but self from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interest, but also to the interests of others. Biblically, justice is about fairness, yes, it's about equitable treatment, yes, it's about people being treated the way they should be treated under God's rule. And that means I treat other people the way that I would want to be treated. I welcome other people the way that I would want to be welcomed. I respect other people the way I would want to be respected. I am good to other people the way that I would like other people to be good to me Righteousness, we're told to do. So in keeping justice, we're told to do righteousness. It's a very, very closely related concept But to do righteousness is to act in accordance with the righteousness that's given to us in Jesus, living lives of active love for God and love for others in obedience to God's commands. Jesus said, if you love me, You will keep my commands. He said the most important command is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. And the second is like it, love your neighbor as you yourself. So when we walk in love, in obedience to his commands, doing what he tells us to do, we are doing righteousness. We're not earning righteousness. Righteousness has been given to us. But we're doing it. We're living out what God has put in. As Philippians Paul says, work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you both to will and to do according to you. His good purpose. God has put into our hearts when we were regenerated, when we were united to Christ, God has put in our hearts by his Holy Spirit a desire to love him better and love other people better, to walk in his ways. If you have no desire to do that, if you're like, that is not of interest to me, I just don't want to go to hell, then you need to think about whether or not you really know the Lord. And you really have salvation. Because God tells us that when he makes us born again and he gives us his spirit and when he makes us righteous in Christ, he gives us a new heart a heart of flesh. And that heart of flesh says, I want to do what God tells me to do because I know it is his will and his will is my daughter. Doesn't mean we do it perfectly, but the desire is there and the command is, do it. It's been given to you. Do it. Now you're not doing it in your own strength. You're doing it by the power of the Holy Spirit, who lives in you, and by the righteousness of Christ given to you. But notice the promise in the second half of verse 1. For soon my salvation will come, and my righteousness be revealed. And ask you a very difficult question about this part. My salvation and my righteousness, the Lord says. Who is that talking about? Who is the salvation of God and the righteousness of God? Who? Jesus, yes. So in Isaiah's day, he's talking about soon. The Messiah will come, the Lord will come. Jesus' name, by the way, is Yeshua, which is the same Hebrew word as the word for salvation. His name is salvation. And he is the righteousness of God. He's the embodiment of the righteousness of God. So in Isaiah's day, they were waiting for Jesus to come, to do the work that was prophesied that he would do in Isaiah 53, that he would come, that and he would come and establish these things. We're now waiting for Jesus to come again and bring this work to its consummation, to its fulfillment. So in the light of him coming again, we are to do these things because He is faithful, he will keep his promise, he will come again, and he will make a final end of all evil, and he will bring us into his eternal heavenly kingdom. We keep justice and we do righteousness with the coming of Jesus always in view. And it doesn't mean Jesus is coming. Hurry up, look busy. I don't know if you heard that one before. But it does mean Jesus is coming. And what did he say? Will the Son of Man find faith on earth when he comes? Will the steward be found faithful? Will the servant be found faithful? And so we do we keep justice and we do righteousness with that coming of Christ in mind. Now you'll notice Sabbath keeping is highlighted in this passage We'll get more of it when we get to chapter 58. But Sabbath keeping is highlighted in verse 2, in verse 4, in verse 6. Why? Why is it this one command that's given special attention? Well, because I believe that, especially in the rhythms of life in ancient Israel, this command was a good practical measure To a commitment to justice and righteousness. Keeping the Sabbath prioritizes the worship of God, the hearing of his word, and also giving rest to servants. And people who work for you. So it is love for God and love for neighbor. It is prioritizing the worship of God and hearing his word and also giving rest to those who work for you, those who serve you. So in that way keeping the Sabbath is this practical way of are you really doing? You see, the practical things matter. I said earlier, it matters just as much. Why we do what we do and how we do what we do as what we do. But what we do matters. Right? What if you could imagine a husband who said to his wife, I know that we are one flesh. I know that God has made us one and that I love you and that you love me. I know that I don't have to earn your love because we're committed to each other for life. And I know that it's God who makes our marriage work. So I'm going to say all that, and I'm not going to do anything. I'm going to turn on the television and watch. And if uh you're washing the dishes, good luck with that. Kids are running around. Wanna take care of that? You know, I'm just gonna sit here and veg out watching sports or whatever. Is that good? No, obviously not. And so that that can be an illustration of sometimes we it's it's easy to pay lip service to God. It's easy to say, Oh I love God. Oh I love him, he's so good, oh yes, I live for Jesus, yes He's my Lord and Savior. And it's like, well, like actually treat people with kindness, actually give in a sacrificial way, actually keep the Sabbath, actually Rest and worship, ugh, that's kind of a pain. I don't really want to do that. Well, is it lip service or is it real? And that's the measure of it that God highlights here, the one measure, and it's really all of it. It's what Jesus, what did Jesus say? If you love me, you will know my commandments. If you love me, you will be able to recite the Ten Commandments. If you love me, you will talk about my commandments. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. It does matter what we do. One of the things that's highlighted here in chapter 56 is the gracious welcome that God gives And that God expects us to give to those who come into his kingdom. And he does it by highlighting two groups of people, foreigners and eunuchs. Verses 3 to 7. Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from his people. And let not the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree. For thus says the Lord to the eunuchs who keep my Sabbath, who choose the things that please me, and hold fast to my covenant I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a name better than sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name And the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord to minister to him, to love the name of the Lord, And to be his servants, every one who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it, who holds fast my covenant, these I will bring to my holy mountain, and I will make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar, for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. Foreigners and eunuchs. Why highlight these? Well, foreigners, you see, you didn't have to be ethnically Jewish. To be a part of God's covenant people in the Old Testament. That's one of the things we often get mixed up in our heads. We think, oh, the Old Testament salvation was for Jewish people and for the nation of Israel. No, it never really was You could be a foreigner and you could convert and you could covenantally join yourself to God's people, and that happens with Rahab, and it happens with Ruth. and uh happens with um Uriah the Hittite, and there's several people that were so told in the Old Testament they joined themselves as God's people. But here's the reality of it. If you were a foreigner, And you had covenantally joined yourself to God's people, the sad reality of it is most Jewish people would kind of look at you a little bit side-eyed and like. . . Not quite, you're not quite in all the way. You're sort of in, but you know, yeah, great, you joined us, but you you know you're not really one of us I lived in a in a small town in South Carolina for my first pastorate, and wonderful people there, but it did fulfill some of the stereotypes of a small southern town. In that people would kind of say to me, well, you know, you're not really from here, so you don't quite get it, and you don't quite understand. And I was talking to one of our elders, and I said You know, I I know, I'm from Maryland. That's considered Yankee if you're down the south. And so, like, how long is this going to take for people to like Take me seriously or something. And he said he said, Jason, I came here in nineteen seventy nine to be pharmacist in town. And I've been an elder in the church since like 1990, and I'm from South Carolina, but I'm not from this town. People still regularly say to me, Oh David, you just don't understand because you're not from here. And so there's always this sort of foreigners kept a little bit at a distance. But what did Jesus say? Jesus, when he came, he actually quoted from Isaiah 56, when he goes into the temple. And he overturns the tables of the money changers and drives out the animals that the merchants are selling. He quotes here from Isaiah 56, 7. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. And he says, but you have made it a den of robbers in Mark 11. Why did he say that? Because in the setup of the temple, the outer court was the court of the Gentiles or the court of the nations. It was where foreigners were supposed to be able to come and learn about the Lord. There should have been Levites stationed in the outer court, ready to teach God's word to anyone who came inquiring. Ready to receive any sacrifices that they wanted to present so that they could bring it into the inner court and bring it to the priests. But instead they had filled up the entire outer court. With animals for sale and money changer tables. And they like to use it as a convenient shortcut to get from one end of the city to another because the temple took up a whole corner of the city. And it was just easier to cut through the court of the Gentiles. That was supposed to be the worship space for the nations. It's supposed to be the house of prayer for all nations. But they had such a bad attitude about it that they just said, eh, we'll just use this as kind of a marketplace and a little shortcut. And Jesus said, no. And that's why he overturned the tables and drove out the animals. And he said, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations. The Bible calls this sin the sin of partiality. When we show preferential treatment for people who are like us or people who we want to impress. And we give them an extra special welcome, and we don't welcome people who aren't important to us. James directly addresses this in James chapter 2. When he says, My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, And a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in. And if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and you say, you sit here in a good place, while you say to the poor man, you stand over there or sit down at my feet Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in the faith and heirs of the kingdom? which he has promised for those who love him? But you have dishonored the poor man. And are not the rich the ones who oppress you and the ones who drag you into court? Are not they the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called? If you really fulfill the royal law according to Scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, You are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. Do righteousness by not showing part It comes in different forms. Even the Apostle Peter in Galatians 2, we read about in Antioch, Peter was there and he was eating with Gentiles, enjoying table fellowship with them. But when certain influential Jews came from Jerusalem to check on the church at Antioch, Peter separated himself from the Gentiles and would only eat with the Jews And Paul said I had to oppose him to his face because he was in the wrong. The testimony of the gospel. Within the church hinges on the love we show for one another. Jesus said, They'll know you're my disciples by the love you show for one another. And it's undermined by the sin of partiality. You know, sometimes the center partiality doesn't look like outlight racism or classism. Sometimes it's more subtle. And it looks like Only spending time to fellowship with people we're comfortable with, people who are like us, people with whom we have a lot in common. And kind of avoiding people who might make us feel uncomfortable or awkward because we don't sort of get them. Well, if that's allowed to grow over time, the church becomes a cliquish place. And it becomes much more like a social club where you've got a group of people where even if the gospel wasn't true, they probably would enjoy hanging out together anyway. But the testimony of the gospel is supposed to be, well, here's a group of people who would not hang out otherwise But they love Jesus and they love one another and look at how they love one another. Jesus set this up deliberately when he called his disciples You had a some fishermen. You had a tax collector. You had a political radical. That's what Simon the Zealot was. Simon the Zealot was a kind of a freedom fighter, independence for Canaan guy Or the leadership team in Antioch, recorded in Acts 13. 1, says, Now there were in the church in Antioch prophets and teachers, Barnabas. Simeon, who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, and Menae, who was a lifelong friend of Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul. So we're named five people who were in the leadership team in Antioch It's so easy when reading the Bible just to sort of gloss over that. Oh, a bunch of names of some people I know don't know. Well let's think about it for a minute. Barnabas. His birth name was actually Joseph. He was a Levite from Cyprus. He was such an encourager that he just became known by his nickname, Bar Nabus, which is son of encouragement. But he was a Levite, he was from the Levitical tribe. Then you have Simeon, who was a black African. He was called Niger because he was a black African. Lucius, he's from Cyrene, which is in modern-day Libya. It's on the coast of North Africa. Then you have Minaan, who is a lifelong friend of the tyrant Herod the Tetrarch. This is the king who mocked Jesus when he was on trial for crucifixion. There's a guy who's his lifelong friend. What? A leader in the church? And then you have Saul of Tarsus, who was trained as a Pharisee, who was in the inner circles. If power with the Sanhedrin and who was a violent persecutor of the church. And then he becomes a leader. These are not people Who would be together? God does this over and over again. In Philippi, we're told about the the start of the church in Philippi, and we're told that the the first three key converts were a slave girl who was set free from demonic possession. A fairly wealthy woman named Lydia, who was a merchant in purple cloth, and a jailer who was likely a Roman soldier. There's your core group for starting a church. These don't belong together, but the gospel is the glue. That holds together people who otherwise would not. So the testimony of the church is strengthened Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5. 16, From now on therefore we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him no longer. God delights in bringing together foreigners, eunuchs, slaves, former violent persecutors, black Africans, politically connected people, wealthy merchants, soldiers, former tax collectors, fishermen, scholars, and others to make one family of God, one body of Christ. And then you look at verse 7 and 8. What is this family of God? What is this body of Christ doing when they're brought into the Holy Mountain to be a house of prayer? They're praying. I will bring them to my holy mountain. I will make them joyful in my house of prayer Their burnt offerings, their sacrifices will be acceptable on my altar, for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. The Lord God, who gathers the outcast of Israel, declares, I will gather yet others to him besides those already gathered. So we're praying. Worshiping, that's sacrifices for us today, is a sacrifice of praise, the sacrifice of thanksgiving. Our prayers arise as incense before the Lord. We we pray and we worship. And then it's a place of gathering others in. How are others gathered in? Through the proclamation of the gospel and through being brought in. To the house of God. So prayer and the proclamation of the gospel in an outreach of ingathering is what holds the church together and what makes the church vital and growing. Now, there's another sin pointed out here, besides the sin of partiality, that underlies the address to the Foreigners in the Unix, the last section here is whew. It's pretty blunt. Because one of the worst things within the church that really undermines justice and righteousness really undermines the testimony of the gospel So they're the final ones addressed in verses 9 to 12. All you beasts of the field, come to devour all you beasts. of the forest. His watchmen are blind. They are without knowledge. They are all silent dogs. They cannot bark, dreaming, lying down, loving to slumber. The dogs have a mighty appetite. They never have enough. But they are shepherds who have no understanding. They have all turned to their own way, each to his own gain, one and all. Come, they say. Let me get wine, let us fill ourselves with strong drink, and tomorrow will be like this day, great beyond measure. So here God weaves together three different images of leaders and their function within the community of God's people. They are watchmen, they are guard dogs, and they are shepherds. Those are among the functions of leaders within God's people. A watchman looks out and sees danger coming and alerts the people. The guard dog makes sure that false teaching and heresy and disruptive things don't get into the church. So there may be some discipline of like, hey, you this is not this is not welcome here in this church. And then there's the shepherds to lead and to feed the flock. That's how biblical godly leadership should function. But what are these guys doing They're blind watchmen. You're gonna set the night watch. You're gonna put a blind guy up on the tower It's probably a good function for him within the covenant community, but not as a watchman. They're blind. In this case, they're just willfully blind because they don't want to pay attention. They don't see. They're silent dogs. They're really good at eating Verse 11. They have a mighty appetite, but they have no desire to raise a ruckus or cause anyone disruption by calling out things that might be dangerous. And then you have shepherds who have no understanding. They're supposed to teach, but they don't know the words of the They're ignorant. These are people who are lazy, self-indulgent, self-serving. You don't have to look far to see, even within our culture, even within our churches, pastors and church leaders who are more concerned with selling books or becoming famous, making money for themselves, or telling people what they want to hear. These are blind watchmen, these are silent guard dogs, these are ignorant shepherds. Now I want to say something. Blunt. I think most of the time churches get the kinds of leaders they want. You know, it's been said every every society has the government it deserves. Um I think most of the time churches get the kind of leaders they want. And if they want someone who's gonna make them feel good about themselves, pump up their ego, uh someone who's gonna put on a good show, be real entertaining, someone who's gonna who's gonna be, you know Make them famous as a church or whatever, they're going to get that. If you value style over substance, celebrity over sound doctrine, worldliness over the gospel, you end up with those kinds of leaders. And it is my prayer that we here at Forest Hill would just not be distracted by the things that would distract them. And that we would be faithful. And sometimes that means saying hard things that need to be said. And the next couple weeks are going to have some of those. Because the text says what it says. And so I'm not going to be a silent guard dog, and I'm not going to be a blind watchman And uh it's because I love you and because God has called me and I'm faithful to be accountable to Him. So The question for us, as we're in these chapters, next week we're going to be confronted with idolatry. Week after that we're gonna be we're gonna be confronted with how we how we keep the Sabbath and how we treat other people. So there's a lot there's a lot of good stuff here. It's actually a compelling picture of of the good way that we are supposed to live. But the question for us is really a very simple one. Doesn't mean it's easy. You know there's a big difference between simple and easy, right? Simple, clear question is this. Will we follow our just and righteous King? Last week we heard that Jesus is the leader and commander of the peoples. We're going to follow him? He's his leader. He says, follow me. He's the commander. He says, keep my commandments. Are we going to follow him? What does that mean? Well, from today's passage, will we preserve justice and do righteousness by his grace and for his glory? Will we turn our backs on all manifestations of the sin of partiality and embrace people with a warm gospel welcome in the name of Jesus, creating a Christ-centered, spiritually vital community? Will we be held together by prayer and grow by gospel proclamation? And will we value what Jesus values and live as he lives and calls us to live? to live. Will we follow our King? Let's pray. Father, you have been so gracious to us. Giving your son to be our good and gracious King. He is strong and he is kind. He is faithful, he is gentle. And he leads us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. We pray that we would follow. We pray. That we would keep our eyes on Jesus, that we would love what He loves, that we would hate what He hates, that we would do what He did and what He called us to do, and that we would turn our backs on doing anything That He has told us not to do. Guide us by your word and Spirit. Now, as we gather around this table, nourish us with Christ, for it is Christ in us. Who is our strength and our righteousness and our hope of glory? And it's in his name we pray. Amen