Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. We are pursuing gospel comfort on a pathway that's leading us from guilt. Through grace to gratitude. We are definitely in the heart of the grace section. We're actually unfolding what we believe What we must believe that's found for us in the Apostles' Creed. And we're focusing on the first part of the Apostles' Creed that talks about God the Father. And we're meditating on what it means for God to be our Father. So let's pray, and then we'll get into God's word and his truth through the means of the Heidelberg Catechism. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gifts and the blessings and the guidance and the protection and the provision that you make for us every moment of every day of our lives We pray that you would be our teacher, that you would build us up in Christ, and that you would be glorified in our lives. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, so we're on question 28 today, but we're going to review 26 and 27 first. So 26. He's asking, what do you believe when you say, I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth? That's the first part of the Apostles' Creed. What do you believe when you say that Well, this is what we believe, the answer, that the eternal Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who out of nothing created heaven and earth and all that is in them, and who still upholds and governs them by his eternal counsel and providence. is, for the sake of Christ his son, my God, and my father. In him I trust so completely as to have no doubt that He will provide me with all things necessary for body and soul, and will also turn to my good, whatever adversity He sends me in this life of sorrow. He is able to do this as Almighty God, and willing also as a faithful father. And then twenty-seven we looked at last time. What do you understand by the providence of God? God's providence is his almighty and ever-present power, whereby, as with his hand, he still upholds heaven and earth and all creatures. and so governs them that leaf and blade, rain and drought, fruitful and barren years, food and drink, health and sickness, riches and poverty, indeed all things come to us not by chance but by his fatherly hand. And so now question 28 is going to challenge us. To say, what does it benefit us to know that God has created all things and still upholds them by his providence? In other words, what what coinage are we minting out of the gold of this truth. We've got we've got golden ore in these truths, but it needs to be minted into coin. for us to be able to spend. How do we benefit? How do we draw on the reserves of the truth of God's providence? Answer, we can be patient in adversity. Thankful in prosperity, and with a view to the future, we can have a firm confidence in our faithful God and Father. that no creature shall separate us from his love, for all creatures are so completely in his hand that without his will they cannot so much as move Hmm. Patient in adversity, thankful in prosperity, with a view to the future, a firm confidence in our faithful God and Father. Let's look at the scriptures and see. We're going to pick up today with where we left off last time, Philippians 2, 12-15. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always So now, not only as in my presence, but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Do all things without grumbling or disputing that you may be blameless and innocent. Children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation among whom you shine as lights in the world. Again, we are blessed and privileged to be able to do all things without grumbling or disputing. We can be patient in adversity, thankful in prosperity, because We are with God and God is working out all these things for our good Here's what Job said in the midst of adversity. Job chapter 1, verses 21 to 22. And Job said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. In all this, Job did not sin or charge God with wrong. And you think about everything that Job suffered, everything that he lost, everything that it cost him. And he blessed the Lord, blessed the Lord First Thessalonians 5. 18 says, Give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. God's will is for us to be thankful for our own good, because as we're thankful, we're seeing with faith. and not with sight. We see with faith, we believe that all circumstances are working together for our good. Romans 8. 28. And so we believe that God is doing all things well for us. And it's God's will that we walk by faith and not by sight. Romans chapter 5 says, not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings. Rejoicing in sufferings? How can we do that? Knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame. Why? Because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us Because God's love has been poured into our hearts. He's our Father. He loves us. He's adopted us in Christ. Abundantly loved us. We know, because of his providence, because he's God, that suffering will produce endurance. Endurance will produce character, and character will produce hope, and hope will never put us to shame because of God's love. in us. And finally, we're going to end with scripture that I'll be preaching on Sunday. I love how this week began actually with part of Romans 8. that I preached this last Sunday, and now this week is ending with part of Romans 8 that I'm going to be preaching this coming Sunday. I didn't plan that. These are the scriptures that are going along with these questions. For I am sure That neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation. will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. That's the truth. We are secure. And so because of that, we can be patient in adversity. Thankful in prosperity. With a view to the future, we can have a firm confidence in the faithful God and Father that no creature shall separate us from his love. We're absolutely kept secure. For all creatures are so completely in his hand that without his will, they cannot so much as move. That's good news. Nothing will ever separate us from his love. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are God Almighty. You rule in heaven and on earth. Your kingdom rules over all. And we are your children. And you've poured out your love into our hearts by your Holy Spirit. And we are kept in that love. You're faithful. You never fail. We can always rejoice in you. Thank you, Father. Thank you, Jesus. Thank you, Holy Spirit We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, I hope that this week's Height of Our Catechism Devotionals were a blessing to you again. They are a rich blessing to me. I'm so glad we're going through these this year. And let's respond now to the truth that God has revealed to us by worshiping his holy name. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus blood and righteousness. I turn out trust the sweetest friend. But holy leading on Jesus' name. Sarkness feels his lovely face. I left on his unchanging grace. Every high and stormy gale. On Christ the style rock I stand all over. All the ground is thinking. Come into love, stuff for me in the well in flood With all the real my soul is away, he is All my open stay, all collect the Rakastan, all ground, speaking stand, all the round. Well he shall come with trumpet sound. Oh may I then Just in his righteousness alone, unless you stand before the throne on Christ.