So let's turn our attention to God's Word, Romans chapter twelve, verses one and two. This is the great pivot, the great hinge. in the whole of Romans as we turn from the doctrine of the gospel being unfolded for us to the living out of that gospel in our lives. Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. This is the word of God. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God. to present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and Perfect. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please write this word on our hearts very deeply by your Spirit that each one of us might hear it, receive it, respond to it by faith. To the glory of your name in our lives and in your church, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Every week on the insert of your bulletin you have a devotional that's based upon the sermon text and it's for reading later in the week. Sort of remind yourself of the things that were covered. And so this this week you have one that I wrote. several years ago and I was reflecting on our first church mission trip, which was to Haiti in the summer of twenty seventeen. And there was a lot of work that had to be done. This was actually the first time that I had led a church mission trip to an overseas and an international location. involving air travel and visas and all those kinds of things. There were security protocol and there was Team training. We we met for months ahead of time. We went through a three mission trip curriculum together to have team unity and to be planned and prepared There was a lot of details, a lot of organization required, and and we just got everything together. And I just remember so clearly, like the the anxiety and the stress and the and the busyness, and then we flew down and we and we Got our ride finally at the airport. There's a little mix up with that, which is kind of interesting. But we ended up riding out through unbelievable um scenes that unfolded for us. We had five youth and five adults on this team, and Andrew was there and he was uh thirteen at the time. And I remember very clearly him just being shocked because he had never before in his life seen the kind of poverty and the kind of lifestyle that people end Haiti live. And we got to the compound and we pulled in and we got out of our cars and we sat down. I remember so clearly thinking Now what? Because everything was the build up to get there and we got there and it's like, alright, now what are we gonna do? Of course we had a plan. But we had also learned in our pre-trick training to be very flexible with our plan and to sort of adapt to circumstances as we encounter them and to just seek to be a blessing to the ministry that's there. And we definitely had to do some adapting. We had to do some Unexpected emergency first aid when there was a motorcycle accident and Sean had to uh splint someone's shattered leg and get him on the back of a pickup and anyway. But it was that moment of the now what? Like we've been through all of this and here we are and now what are we going to do? And we're kind of at that place in Romans. In Romans, we've been in Romans since the beginning of September. We've been taking what I would call a medium pace through. Some of you might think it's been a long time. I'll just, like a lot of other people when they preached through Romans, took a lot longer. than we're taking. Uh John Tiper several years ago preached through Romans and it was 225 messages over the course of almost eight years. So we're we are going to be revisiting it in September, but it'll be just about, you know, won't be nearly that long. But mostly what we've been in so far has been gospel doctrine. So we've been looking at really the righteousness of God. In the gospel, in the first part of Romans, very beginning, if you want to, if you have your Bibles, by the way, just flip with me, because I'm going to take you on a little tour of where we've been in Romans so that we're ready for this therefore. That's at the beginning of chapter twelve. We began in the very beginning of Romans by looking at Paul's statement of his zeal for the gospel and his definition of the gospel. We focused particularly on Verses 16 and 17. When we were back at that point, this definition of the gospel. And the gospel is the revelation of the righteousness of God. from faith for faith, so that we can have power for salvation from God through the righteousness of God revealed. What does that mean? Well, first of all, after that we found out why we need righteousness. So starting in 118 and going to 320, we found out why it is that we need righteousness. It's because we're all sinners, we all fall short of the glory of God, we all break His law in thought, word, and deed. We're all condemned before a just and holy God. So we need his righteousness. That was 118 to 320. And then 321 to 26, I told you, is probably the single most important and pivotal paragraph. In all of Romans, it is the giving of the righteousness of God in the propitiation that Jesus made for us on the cross. The righteousness of God has been manifested through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, because it's through the redemption That is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood. If there's one paragraph to understand what God did to save us, it's 3, 21 to 26. And if there's one word. It's right at the heart of that paragraph, it's this word propitiation, which is that on the cross Jesus was the sacrifice that satisfied the just wrath of God that we deserve for our sin. He took it on himself instead. That's the gospel. Well then, that's righteousness given. Starting then really in 327 and be continuing through the end of chapter 8 is righteousness received. How do we receive the righteousness of God? First, we're justified by faith, not by works. We receive the righteousness that's in Christ Jesus. We receive that by faith, not by works And then we're sanctified as a work of the Holy Spirit, like we confess today in our confession of faith. It's the work of God's grace by his Holy Spirit making us more holy. progressively, and that was in chapters six, seven, and eight. So four and five is on justification. Six, seven, and eight is on sanctification. And then we took this side trip. The last several weeks is looking at chapters 9 through 11 under the heading we could say of righteousness rejected. We see what happens when righteousness is received, you're justified and you're sanctified. What happens when righteousness is rejected Well, Israel largely has rejected the righteousness of God, and they're under God's judgment, and yet there's good news because there's a future hope for Israel. But for now, we share the gospel with them believing that there will be a remnant but also grieving over the hardness of heart. So we come back now in chapter twelve and we begin The lost section of Romans 12 to 16, which is really righteousness lived or righteousness applied. Once we've received the righteousness of God, we've been justified, we're being sanctified. What does that actually look like? When we get up and go to work in the morning, when we're voting, when we're interacting with our neighbors, when we're having our family life, what does it look like? To live out the righteousness of God that's been received by faith. That's what we start in Romans chapter 12. So that's why we have this word, therefore. It's telling us that we're at a key turning point. We're going to draw out an application from what has come before Now there's a little bit of disagreement among Bible scholars who get hung up over, is this therefore connecting verse 1 of Romans 12 to the end of Romans 11? Or if should we understand 9 and 11 to be sort of a side trip and so we're really connecting all the way back to the end of Romans 8? I think you can make a pretty strong case that it's being connected back to the end of Romans eleven, because look at what it says. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God. See that word mercies in verse 1? Well, if you weren't here last week or you don't remember from last week, look back at the end of Romans 11. I'm going to read from verse 30. You count how many times Paul talks about mercy. For just as you were at one time disobedient, but now have received mercy, because of their disobedient So they too have now been disobedient in order that by the mercy shown to you, they also may now receive mercy For God has consigned all to disobedience that he may have mercy on all. And then the doxology, oh the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, how inscrutable his ways For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor, or who who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid, for from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory for ever and ever. Amen Therefore, I appeal to you, brothers, by the mercies of God. Did you see that? There were four mercies. Four times that mercy was mentioned in just three verses. And so that's what's immediately in view. But in the larger sense, it's not important to say, is it one or the other? Because really we're taking all of Romans 1 through 11 and we're applying it to our lives, starting here in chapter 12. And what's so important is that we do not forget that when we are talking about how we live out The Christian life in a practical way, we are talking about what we are doing by the mercies of God. There are people in the church You may recognize yourself in one of these two portraits. There are people in the church who just want to hear good old gospel sermons. Give me the doctrine of the gospel. Give me the free grace of God in Jesus Christ. Give me salvation by grace through faith and not by works. Give me that gospel message. And there are people in the church who really want practical application. Tell me how I'm supposed to live my life as a Christian in this world. Give me practical things that I can take home and that I can do. And people have a tendency to tilt one way or the other in their preferences. And I'll confess enough that I have a tendency to tilt toward, give me the gospel, give me the grace, because I feel like I'm falling short and I need that reassurance and that reminder that I'm not saving myself, but God is saving me But the Bible doesn't allow us to separate these two things and to say I want one or the other. The Bible puts them together, particularly all of Paul's letters are structured this way They begin by an unfolding of gospel doctrine, and then they roll right into an unfolding of the practical application of the gospel in our lives. If you don't remember that it's by the mercies of God that you do everything you do, you end up being a self-righteous, legalistic, Pharisee type person. You end up saying, just tell me what I need to do to make God happy with me, and I'm going to do it, and if I do it well, I'm going to be real happy with myself, but God's real happy with me because I've done all the things that I need to do. But on the other side, and this happens, the people who say, I'm a failure, I don't do well, just keep reminding me how about Jesus is my righteousness. Oh, I'm not saved by works, but I'm saved by grace through faith, and it's all about Jesus. It's not about me. That way I don't have to worry about what I'm doing with my life. I can just trust in Jesus. And I put that in air quotes, because that's not trusting in Jesus. Real trust in Jesus changes you. From the inside out in every area of your life. It changes how you think, it changes how you look at the world, it changes what you value, it changes what you chase after and what you don't chase after. Real grace through faith in Jesus Christ changes everything about your life. Now it doesn't make you perfect all at once But it changes everything about your life, for it's not genuine grace, it's not genuine faith in Jesus if it's not changing you. So, we get the therefore. By the mercies of God. That means two things. The mercies of God are the foundation of our motivation. Why do we do what we do? Why do we offer ourselves to God as a living sacrifice? Why do we want to be more holy? Why? Because God has had mercy on us We deserved judgment. We deserve hell. We deserve eternal condemnation. And God had mercy on us. God forgave us. God cleansed us of all of our sins. And He did so at the price of His Son dying on the cross for us. That's the motivation for everything that we do, but it's also the power for doing everything that we do. It not only gives us our motivation, but it gives us the power. And so everything in our Christian lives, if you're filling in the blanks on number one, everything in our Christian lives Is rooted in God's mercies to us in Christ. It's rooted in, in the sense that that provides the motivation and the foundation But it also provides the strength and the stability and the nourishment to be able to do it. We say in this church that we want to be rooted in God's Word. And more specifically, we want to be rooted in the mercies of God given to us in Jesus Christ. We want to be rooted in the gospel because that gives us our motivation and it gives us our strength. Without the mercies of God, we would have no reason to trust God, and we would have no ability to obey God in the slightest. It's all from his mercies. Now, what do we do by the mercies of God? Well, verse 1 tells us: by the mercies of God, present your bodies as a living sacrifice. holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. What does it mean to offer your body as a living sacrifice? Well what it means, and I'm actually going to make a change, so we'll see if you pay attention to what's on the slide versus what I say, a living sacrifice is a no-reservation commitment to God. Now initially I had surrender to God. But I don't want to reinforce what I think is a very flogged theology that's been circulating around Christianity for a long time, and that is the let go and let God mentality. Right? Jesus take the wheel. Don't let go and let God. So surrender, I think, is too passive. It's a commitment. To be a living sacrifice. A sacrifice means wholehearted, complete, nothing held back. But living means we're active. We are doing this. We're not living for ourselves anymore, but we're living for him who died and rose again for us. That's the essence of it. Who do I live for? I don't live for myself and my own desires and my own passions. I live for the one who died and rose again for me. This is where the Heidelberg Catechism begins, and why I love it so much, and why I think it's such a great guide to gospel comfort, because it begins where we need to begin, which is What is your only comfort in life and death? That I am not my own. Do you realize yet That trying to be in charge of your own life and trying to serve yourself and trying to make yourself happy is actually miserable slavery. If you are just trying to make yourself happy, that means your desires, your passions, your wants are controlling you. That is slavery. Instead, Jesus invites us to be freed from that by committing ourselves to His Lordship He's the king, he's the good shepherd, we follow him, and we're set free from that poisonous, enslaving grip of selfishness. This is all in the Bible, over and over again. Paul says in Galatians 2. 20, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 1 Corinthians 6, 19 to 20 says, Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own. But you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. And then Second Corinthians five fifteen says, and he died for all, so that those Who might live would live no longer for themselves, but for him who for their sakes died and was raised. Do you hear that? It's so consistently throughout Scripture. You are not your own. You were bought with a price. The life you now live in the flesh, you live by faith in the Son of God. You are a temple of the Holy Spirit. You are to glorify God in your body. He died for you so that you might live for Him This is freedom. This is freedom. I know there are people who grew up in the church. I know there are people who heard the gospel. Listen, kids, young people, if you're under the age of 25, listen to me. I know that there are people who have grown up in the church and who think in their minds and who even say with their mouths. Oh, I know what the truth is. I know that Jesus is the Son of God. I know that Jesus is the only salvation. I know that Jesus died for my sins and he rose again from the dead. And I know that I'm really supposed to follow him. And I will do that later in my life. But first, I want to have some fun. But first, I want to enjoy my freedom. And that that one, that phrase, first I want to enjoy my freedom. Just gets right under my skin because it's just like Satan has lied to you and has put you in chains and called it freedom. Because that is not freedom. That means you don't understand what freedom is and you don't understand who Jesus is. You may have heard it all your life. But you don't get it. If you think living for myself for a few more years is freedom, and one day when I decide to follow Jesus, that's going to be bondage. It's backwards. It's absolutely backwards. The same letter of Galatians, where Paul says I've been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I live in this body I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. That same letter he later writes in chapter 5. It is for freedom that Christ has set you free. That's freedom to not live for yourself, but to live for him who died and rose again for you. Because Paul uses here the word body. And I love this. Notice also in 1 Corinthians, Paul talks about how your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, so glorify God with your body. Why is a body? Not soul, not self. Because he knows the way that our flesh and Satan will twist scripture and cause us to think wrongly. You might think. Oh, I really love Jesus in my heart. I really love God in my heart. But My actions aren't really obedient in my body. My tongue curses other people and spreads lies and gossips and slanders. You know, I don't get up early to be in the Word. I don't I miss church because I'd rather go golfing or something else. But in my heart, I love the Lord. And that's just you're just kidding yourself. Because what did Jesus say? Jesus said there's a direct connection between the heart and the mouth. He said it's out of the overflow of the heart that the mouth speaks. And Jesus also said, Whatever a man thinks in his heart, so is he. So Paul could have said, give your hearts as a living sacrifice. But The heart is deceitful above all else and desperately wicked, and we would make all sorts of excuses. I think bodies makes it very practical. Very practical. What are you doing? Is what you are doing obedient to Christ or not? Earlier this week I was listening to a sermon from a great Scottish preacher, Eric Alexander, one of my one of my favorite preachers uh really of all time. I don't listen to him often enough, and whenever I do, I'm just so um I love his preaching. Anyway, he um he preached a sermon back in the eighties, um and he had been to the Urbana Conference in um Illinois, which is a missions commitment sort of conference that's held every three years. And he talked about how he heard a message at the Urbana conference, and the message was entitled Cultivating the Anything, Anywhere, Anytime Spirit And he said, that is a great synopsis of what being a living sacrifice is: the anything, anywhere, anytime, spirit. What does that mean? What does the Lord require of me? I will do it. I will do anything, anywhere, at any time, because I am not my own, I am his. And so all will obey with that kind of complete commitment, that no-reservation commitment, to say, Jesus is my king, he is my shepherd, he says go, I'll go, he says stop, I'll stop. Paul says that this offering of our bodies as a living sacrifice, which is holy and acceptable to God. How can our bodies be holy and acceptable to God? It's only through the sacrifice of Jesus that sanctifies us. He makes us holy. His blood sanctifies us. And so we're holy and acceptable through Christ. He says that it is our, ESV here translates it as spiritual worship. If you have a different translation, the translators like to do one of two different things with this phrase. They say either spiritual worship or they'll say Rational service or reasonable service. There's a Dutch Reformed system of theology that's called the Christian's Reasonable Service. And that's the other way of translating this phrase because Paul here puts together two words that in our heads don't go together. The word that ESV translates as spiritual, but other translations will render as rational or reasonable, is the word that we get logical from. So it's logical, it's rational, it's reasonable. But the second word is worship, not service, it's worship. So there's a sense in which we say, if God has been so merciful to me, And God extends His mercy to me every day. The most logical, the most rational, the most reasonable thing for me to do is to worship Him with all that I am and all that I do every moment of every day. It's my reasonable worship. It's my rational worship. My whole body and my whole life. Now, do we do so perfectly? No, we don't do so perfectly. And I don't want you to hear this as saying, well, if I'm not only thinking about Jesus twenty four hours a day, seven days a week, and I'm not only living for him, then I'm a complete failure as a Christian and God doesn't love me. And please don't hear that because All that's come before in the grace of God and the mercies of God and the gospel is the foundation. This is by the mercies of God. This is an invitation for you to live a life that is free And that is fulfilling and that will thrive for your good and for God's glory. God's not expecting perfection. But he does want us to grow because he loves us. And if you're a parent, you've had this experience. All parents want their kids to grow. They want their kids to develop skills, they want their kids to get better and get stronger, and you want to see progress. When your kids are are newborns, of course, they're pretty helpless. And you're tending to all of their needs. But hopefully, by the time they're teenagers, they're slightly less helpless. And you're slightly less having to tend to every one of their needs? Maybe that was a bad illustration. No, but seriously, they they make progress, right? They they learn how to walk, they stumble, they fall, but they learn how to walk. They learn how to run, they learn how to read, they learn how to And and before long you're you're you're struggling at adding one and two and You know, what's two plus three and getting them to understand that two plus three is five and then you blink and you turn around, they're bringing home calculus homework, you're like, I don't know how to help you with that Uh because they've grown and God wants to see growth in us. We give ourselves as living sacrifices because God wants us to grow. Now how do we grow? How do we grow? Well, Paul gives us very specifically a negative and a positive action as the way for us to be a living sacrifice. And the negative is do not be conformed to this world. And the positive is but be transformed by the renewal of your mind. So our third point is do not be conformed to this world, and that means we must turn a deaf ear to the siren song of the world. We must turn a deaf ear to the siren song of the world. How do we know what the siren song of the world is? What does that mean? I mean, Christians have gotten this wrong a lot over the years. So let's just slow down and say, worldliness is a huge problem. Worldliness will hinder you from growing in the gospel. If you listen to the world and you follow the world, you're not following Christ. But Christians have gotten this wrong a lot over the years. They've had superficial, almost silly ways. of measuring what worldliness is and what godliness is. So at one point in time in the history of the church People would have very clearly said that I am appropriately attired for church, that I am godly because I have this on and this on, but they would look at other people And they'd say, well you're being you're dressing in a worldly way because you're wearing a t-shirt or you're wearing no tie or whatever. I think that's, frankly, not what God's talking about at all. It's missing the mark. How do we know? How do we know what worldly misses? Well, we heard it earlier in our worship service. We read it in 1 John 2, 15 to 17. So turn there and look at the passage that's printed. Uh well it's not printed, but you can turn to first John two fifteen and seventeen. God tells us exactly. Do not love the world or the things that are in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world. Right here we get the definition. Three things. All that is in the world, the desires of the flesh. And the desires of the eyes and the pride of life is not from the Father, but from the world And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. So there's three things that are the world. It's not God's creation. Yesterday we were weeding our garden, getting it ready for planting. Isn't it amazing when you have a garden? But the things you don't really want to grow just thrive. You didn't plant them, you didn't care for them, you don't really want them there, and they are abundant. The things you carefully plant, the things you tend to, the things you really want to see thrive, struggle and struggle and struggle. There's an illustration about the Christian life there. But it's constant weeding, right? So uh Jeremiah and Catherine were mostly doing that yesterday, and they're out weeding and weeding and weeding. And then we have a fat fire pit in our backyard, and our fire pit had gotten overgrown with weeds because of course Um and so they went to go weed the f the fire pit. And guess what they found when they were weeding the fire pit? Baby bunnies. They there was a a rabbit nest in there with two baby bunnies, so we're not gonna have a fire pit this year. So if you want to come over to our house soon for a fire pit in the backyard, we'll have to say, well, maybe we can build a fire somewhere else, but we're not disturbing the baby bunnies So it's the cutest thing in the world. So is it like, oh, we shouldn't love these baby bunnies? No, that's not what God's talking about. His creation is wonderful. His creation is a blessing. What we should not love are these three things The lust or desires of the flesh, what is that? Our appetites, our cravings, our lust, our gluttony, our anger, our impatience. It's that animal craving that's within us. That is, you know, driven by food, by sex, by pleasure, by convenience, and that that desire of the flesh is number one. Number two, the desires of the eyes. That's materialism, possessiveness, covetousness, greed, or envy. Greed and envy are too, you know. I want that and you have it and that's not fair. All that is lust of the eyes. And the pride of life is the boasting in our attributes, our accomplishments, or our possessions, as somehow they make us great being puffed up with pride. That's what we're supposed to turn our backs on. And those things those things I call them the siren song of the world. It's a three note The song of the sirens, you know the sirens from ancient Greek mythology. They would sing a beautiful song, but they were hideous and they were deadly monsters. And all they wanted to do was kill you. And that's what the world is. The world is saying, oh, here's some fun, oh, here's some pleasure, oh, here's a possession that'll make your life so much better. Oh, you need to take care of you because you're special. And you go after you're like, oh, that's so wonderful, it's so beautiful, and all of a sudden, smash, you're shipwrecked because you've gotten off course and you've started to just live for yourself, and you're back in those chains of slavery that Jesus died to set you free from. This song is the song that Satan's been singing from the very beginning. If you read Genesis 3 closely, this is exactly what got Eve into trouble in the Garden of Eden. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that's lust of the flesh, and that it was a delight to the eyes, that's lust of the eyes. And that the tree was desired to make one wise. That's the pride of life. She took of its fruit and ate. Then she also gave to her husband who was with her and he ate. You see, Satan doesn't have any new tricks. Just the same old three things he's ever used. It also shows us the complexity that one single piece of fruit can appeal to the flesh and the eyes and pride. So sometimes temptations are mixed, but it's always these three things. Even when Jesus faced temptation in the desert wilderness. What were the three temptations? Turn this stone into bread, lust of the flesh. Bow down before me, and I'll give you all the kingdoms of the earth, lust of the eyes Hey, throw yourself down from the pinnacle of the temple, and he'll give his angels charge concerning you, and they'll lift you up lest you strike your foot against the sun. Show off in front of everybody. Show them who you are, pride of life. Jesus teaches us actually, and we don't have time for this right now, but Jesus teaches us how to respond to these temptations and how he responds to the devil. Lust of the flesh, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every mouth that pre word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Some appetite, some craving. I am more than an animal. I'm made in the image of God. I was not made to live from appetites. I was made to live by the Word of God. Covetousness is idolatry. That's what God's word tells us. And so Jesus says to the offer of the kingdoms of the world, It is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. Worship God. Don't worship material things. And the pride of life, you shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Anytime we're getting puffed up in pride, we're really putting God to the test because we're trying to put ourselves in the place of God. We're trying to take credit. for what we have, as if God didn't give it to us, and we're trying to compete with God for glory. So we've got to turn a deaf ear to those things if we're going to know God's will. But the negative is not enough. You can't just turn a deaf ear to those things. You also, our final point, our minds need to be renewed if we're going to know and do the will of God. Again, if you have an anything, anywhere, anytime mentality, you could still go very wrong if your mind is not renewed. to know the will of God. Jacob and Carol Lee have told this story about themselves multiple times. When they were young and they were married, they felt God calling them to the mission field, and so they said Well we're going to go anywhere, anytime and do anything. Where should we go? Let's go to India. Um Carol spent some growing up time there, and so they knew it. And they said, let's just sell everything we have and go to India. And so they did. They just sold everything they had and they went to India. They were willing. They were anything, anywhere, anytime. That was completely foolish. They lasted about six months and they realized they had no church that had sent them, they had no ongoing support, they had no one really committed to praying for them and covering them. They were just out on their own, doing their thing. Serving the Lord. Good heart? Yeah, as they say in the South, will bless their heart. Um but that's why we need to have our minds renewed. Right living Is really driven by right thinking. Getting it straight in your mind. Don't follow the things of the world. The things of the world They'll often override all right thinking by just getting us to live for desires and for lust and for pride. You set that aside and you're renewed in your mind. Now, how are we going to be renewed in our minds? By the Spirit's work through the Word of God. That's how the Spirit works. The Spirit renews our mind by the word of God. And yes, this is the part of the sermon where your pastor tells you you need to read your Bible every day. It's not an optional add-on activity. Oh, certain advanced Christians read the Bible outside of church, but I'm just a basic Christian. I'll just get the Bible in church. That's fine. I'm glad you're here I'm glad you're listening. I'm glad you're taking in God's world here. This is an hour and fifteen, an hour and twenty minutes out of your week. How much does the world talk to you throughout the week? How much does your flesh? How much does Satan how many days off do they take from coming at you? It's kind of like being married and saying, I want a good, healthy marriage, but I really only want to talk to my wife once a week. Okay, two or three times a week. We're gonna be super good about this. We're gonna talk two or three times a week. Every time the rest of the time is just gonna ignore her Try that. Actually don't try that, because I don't want all that marriage counseling. It doesn't go well, right? You have to communicate every day. You have to listen and you have to speak. So how do we do that? How do we do that? Well, I think there's Bible reading and there's Bible studying that is important for the renewal of your mind. I think you should be in the habit of daily reading of the Bible, but also of studying the Bible. That's why we put out weekday devotionals. That's why Monday through Friday, you can get your mind renewed by being in the Word through our online devotionals. It's also why we offer Bible studies. We have a ladies' Bible study, we have a men's study, we have an adult study, we have Sunday school, because you need to have your mind renewed in community by the Spirit. All the time. It's continual. And when your mind is renewed, you'll know what the will of God is. Notice what he says about the will of God. I love how this ends. You will discern what is the will of God, what is miserable and hard and exhausting. Is that what he says? No. And some of you, honestly, let's be real, some of you when I say an anything, anywhere, anytime attitude, just like, oh I don't have energy for that. How am I supposed to do that? That's just a burden that I can't even begin to pick up and lift. What did Jesus say? Come unto me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you so much work to do that you'll be in the dirt. Is that what he said? No. He said, I will give you what? Rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, and you will find Rest for your souls. Because maybe when you renew your mind in the Word of God and you actually stop listening to the world and all the obligations it's putting on you. That if you're honest or driven a lot by lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life, I've got to work harder, I've got to stay longer at the office, I've got to get that next promotion. Why? Because we've got to get that boat, because we've got to have to have that vacation, because we've got to My kids, I'm gonna start stepping on toes here. My kids have to play the travel ball this summer. We have to do all these tournaments. Why? Because they have to be great. Why? What's really driving that? Are you really wanting what's best for your kid? Or is it somehow a little bit of pride? That's driving and driving you to exhaustion. And when you come to Christ, he might say, hey, put that down. Let's spend some time together. Let's focus on what you're actually called to do. And maybe what we're actually called to do is good and acceptable and perfect. It's the good will of God. It's his loving, fatherly wisdom. That's what he calls us to. So we've taken a shift in Romans. And as we continue on in Romans, you're going to notice there's lots of practical application. One of the ways you can see this is that we're we're going to be shifting from a lot of, I'm going to get grammarly on you. We're going to be shifting from a lot of indicative verbs, what God has done, to a lot of imperative verbs, what we are called to do. Earlier, I had told you in a previous sermon that the difference between salvation by the law and salvation by the gospel is two letters. It's the difference between do and done. Right? The law says do, do, do until you hope someday it might be done. The gospel says it is done. But then the gospel says, now do. It is done. It is finished. You are saved. You are loved. You are adopted. You are forgiven. You are secure. There is no condemnation for you. Now, do not to earn, but to further receive the blessing of God in your life And so we're shifting from indicatives of what God has done to imperatives of what we're called to do. First eleven chapters of Romans, there's only a handful of imperatives, and they only come in a couple of places. One is in Romans 6 where he says Consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God. He's basically saying, take all this and take it to mind and believe it. And then in Romans 11, where he says, don't be arrogant, don't be prideful. He's talking to Gentiles about puffed up attitude towards God. Jews. That's the only place. In 11 chapters, the only place is a couple isolated places we've got a couple of imperatives. In chapter 12 alone, and you'll see this sorry next week, there's over 30 commands in 21 verses. And what I want you to hear is that these are an invitation to freedom. These are an invitation to live the way that God wants us to live, in a way that would actually be a blessing to us. But Say it again. You will not be able to receive these commandments and do these things if you're also chasing the world and what it's telling you. to do. You'll be torn in two different directions, you'll be trying to serve two different masters and you won't be able to do it. So pray this week that this would all begin In this next section of Romans, for all of us, talking to myself too, we are living sacrifices by the mercies of God. We belong to him wholeheartedly. And if we're going to do what he tells us to do, we're going to have to stop doing some of what he hasn't told us to do. That's just exhausting us. And we'll find freedom and we'll find life in following our Savior. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the gift of life that you've given us in your Son, Jesus. Please lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake and for our good. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.