Good morning and welcome to Scripture and Carols, our series of Advent Devotionals for 2025. I'm Pastor Jason Van Dummel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I hope you're doing well this morning. Today we're going to be looking at an old German carol. from the fifteenth century, that is from the fourteen hundreds. We don't know who wrote it, but it's called Lo Howardose Air Blooming. And when I was younger, this was one of the most confusing Christmas carols to me, but it's actually very, very beautiful and profound. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look into this today Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son into the world and for foretelling his coming into the world. Thank you for the greatness of his coming and help us to be in awe and wonder at Christ again. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Lo how a rose air blooming. One of the lines in Lo how a rose air blooming is Isaiah 'twas foretold it, right? The rose of which I speak. When did Isaiah foretell? Well, many places, of course, but Isaiah 7. 14 and Isaiah 11. 1 are of particular relevance. Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign, behold, the Virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. The Virgin. conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit, bears a son who is God with us. That's what Emmanuel means God with us. And Isaiah 11, 1, there shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. This is in a time of hopelessness, a time when it had been hundreds of years since there had been a son of Jesse sitting on the throne, someone from the line of David. There was just a stump left. Right, there's stumps. When you look at a stump, you don't think, oh, there's hopefulness, right? You think, oh, there's something that was gone and passed. But from the stump comes a shoot, from the branch, from the roots, because it's deeper than Jesse. Jesus is older than Jesse because he's from eternity past, even though he's the son of David. He bears fruit. He bears fruit to the glory of God. This is the rose that blooms and bears fruit for the glory of God. I also always think for some reason of Mary's Magnificat whenever I hear this song. And it's just a beautiful passage from Luke chapter 1. And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior, for He has looked on the humble estate of His servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home. This is just showing us that God's plan For the ages, God's plan for his people had come about, and the response to that should be joy at the beauty, at the power, at the love of God in Jesus Christ. Well, Lohau Rose Erbluming is an anonymous medieval German carol, so there's no real story behind the writing of it. It emerges in Germany sometime in the 1400s. We don't know who wrote it or what the circumstances were. What we have are the words themselves, which endured through time, and is quite beautiful. Lo, how arose, air blooming From tender stem hath sprung, Of Jesse's lineage coming, as men of old have sung It came a flower bright amid the cold of winter when half gone was the night. And so this image of like the stump that was cut down, half gone was the night, it seemed like, you know Boy, it's dark. And this Carol's also bringing out the truth that it's not by coincidence that we celebrate Christmas right after the passing of that winter solstice when when the coming on of the night And the world has reached just about its darkest peak. As soon as we start creeping toward daylight, we celebrate the birth of Jesus. Now, there's a lot of theories and stories about how we picked that up from Saturnalia and we picked it up from some other Roman festival and that's not really when Jesus was born. There's actually very, very old evidence dating back to the second and third centuries in the church that the church has almost always celebrated um Christmas when it is, which is, you know, December twenty fifth or so, close to that, the end of December And the reason being that it's believed that Mary was visited by the Archangel Gabriel and that she conceived the Lord Jesus in her womb at around the time of Passover. Because the Passover lamb was given then. Well, from the time of Passover, a normal pregnancy, the time for birth would come in late December. So the the Christian there's evidence that the Christian celebration of Christmas actually predates Saturnalia, predates um the Roman festivals that come later or don't even actually fall at exactly the same same time. But anyway, that's a little aside. This the final line, the refrain here, when half gone was the night, refers spiritually to the idea that God's people were in deep darkness under the oppression of the Romans. The stump of of uh the the the line of Jesse had been cut down. There was just a stump in the ground. But it also talks about the chronology of when we celebrate Christmas right after the the darkest days of the year. Isaiah twas foretold it, the rose I have in mind. With Mary we behold it, the virgin mother kind. That's why I always think about the magnificat when I hear this. As with Mary we behold it. Mary rejoiced at the coming of Jesus. We should as well. To show God's love aright, she bore to men a Savior when half gone was the Night. And then the third verse, this flower whose fragrance tender with sweetness fills the air dispels the glorious splendor with m dispels with glorious splendor the darkness everywhere. True man, yet very God. From sin and death he saves us and lightens every life. load. That is a wonderful verse, that third verse. Just talks about Christ coming in with glorious splendor, dispelling the darkness as true man and true God. who comes and what does he do? He saves us from sin and death and he lightens every load because he's our merciful and compassionate and faithful high priest. who who bears up. He says, Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. He lightens every load. He he saves us from sin and death. It's it's beautiful. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this beautiful hymn. Thank you for wherever it came from, whoever wrote it. We're thankful all these hundreds of years later that we can hear it and we can sing it together to the glory of your name So Father, would you please help us to be thankful for the coming of Christ and to realize how he dispels the gloom with glorious splendor, and how he saves us from sin and death, and how he, as our merciful and faithful high priest, lightens every load, and may we cast our cares upon Jesus more readily this Advent and Christmas season, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well let's listen now together to Lo How Arose, air blooming. You know how broad. I hold up with her well. I say for told me the rose I have in my wheel. Virgin to show God. She bought to let us say your well. This flow whose fragrance can her with sweetness. Yes, it's here is the pathway through us thunder. Every well, true man yet very from sin and death he spaces. And like when we're