Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're beginning our 23rd week together in the Gospels. And we're in Luke chapter 6. Hope you're having a good day. Your weeks off to a good start. Hope you were able to worship with God's people yesterday on the Lord's Day. Today, in Luke 6, 20 to 36, we're asking this question. What does it look like to love our enemies? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your love. You loved us when we were your enemies. Teach us today from your word how you're calling us to love like you love. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke six, twenty to thirty-six. And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples and said, Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you shall be satisfied. Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh. Blessed are you when people hate you, and when they exclude you, and revile you, and spurn your name as evil, on account of the Son of Man. Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy. For behold, your reward is great in heaven. For so their fathers did to the prophets. But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation. Woe to you who are full now, for you shall be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. Woe to you when all people speak well of you, for so their fathers did to the false prophets. But I say to you, Who here? Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who abuse you. To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also. And from one who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either. Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods, do not demand them back. And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them. If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same? And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners to get back the same amount. But love your enemies and do good and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great. And you will be sons of the Most High, for He is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. Jesus confronts and powerfully rebukes the value system of this fallen world. In today's passage, He pronounces God's blessings on all kinds of people the world despises, and then he pronounces woes on all kinds of people the world celebrates. And so the poor, the hungry, the weeping, and the hated are all blessed by Jesus, but the rich, the satisfied, the popular are all warned to change their ways. And then, as if this list of blessings and woes wasn't enough, Jesus clearly and unmistakably calls his followers to love their enemies. Given our human nature, it might be easy for the poor and despised Christ followers to hear the blessings and the woes and start to gloat inwardly. The blessed, hated, and hungry, poor could even begin to relish the day of retribution, and even begin to act snotty, rude, arrogant, and boastful toward their enemies. Jesus tells us that such behavior is not appropriate for his followers. Instead of arrogant gloating, we are to offer our enemies love. But what would it look like to love our enemies? Well, it doesn't mean agreeing with them and telling them that they're right. That's not love, because lying to people is actually a hateful thing to do Jesus tells us three ways we can love our enemies. So let's consider these three actions and what they might look like for us today. First, he tells us to do good to those who hate you. What if we went out of our way to be kind and loving to those who hate Christianity? What if you invited your atheist friend to dinner not to try to convert them, but just to show them hospitality? What if you asked them how they're doing and listened to what they had to say? What if you cared enough to find out what their needs are and then sought in some way to meet these needs Second, bless those who curse you. What if, in any discussion of religious belief, we were always respectful and kind, no matter what the other person said to us? What if we sought to bless and encourage rather than to insult and demean, or just to win the argument? What if we intentionally assumed the best about our ideological adversaries, even if they assumed the worst of us? Third, pray for those who abuse you. Do you pray for the people in our culture who hate and bash Christians? Do you pray for your neighbors, family members, or coworkers? who do not know the Lord, especially for those who attack your faith and ridicule your religion. If you pray for the persecuted church worldwide, do you also pray for their persecutors? Jesus told us that it is easy to love those who love us. Because it is easy, it is unremarkable and also ineffective in showing the love of Jesus to a watching world If we love those who love us, we're no different from the culture around us, and we have no credibility as the salt of the earth, the light of the world. But if we will love Not as others love us, but as Christ has loved us, then the world might catch a glimpse of his love working through us. And ultimately, wouldn't that be worth the sacrifice to our ego or our comfort? Let's go to Psalm 111. Praise the Lord. I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart. In the company of the upright, in the congregation, great are the works of the Lord, studied by all who delight in them Full of splendor and majesty is his work, and his righteousness endures forever. He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered. The Lord is gracious and merciful He provides food for those who fear him. He remembers his covenant forever. He has shown his people the power of his works in giving them the inheritance of the nations. The works of his hands are faithful and just. All his precepts are trustworthy. They are established forever and ever, to be performed with faithfulness and uprightness. He sent redemption to his people. He has commanded his covenant forever. Holy and awesome is his name. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. All who practice it have a good understanding. His praise endures forever. O Heavenly Father, your righteousness indeed endures forever You have shown us, your people, the power of your salvation, of our forgiveness, of our redemption, of the mercy you've had on us through the death of your Son on the cross. You've been good to us. And you call us to demonstrate, to proclaim, to believe, to live out what you have done for us and who you are to us. Father, may we fear you, and so walk in wisdom, not fearing the world, either to conform to its ways or to get angry and fight against the people in the world. Both of those are fear reactions, either conform and fit in or fight back and get angry. Let us not fear the world, let us fear you. And in the fear of you, walk in wisdom. In the ways of Jesus. To do good to those who harm us, to pray for those who persecute us, to bless those who curse us. May we love our enemies and proclaim that it is your goodness that allows us to do so. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I pray that you will have a blessed day in the Lord.