Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're in the Gospel of John and Five days a week we gather to look at the Gospels and get to know Jesus better. So today we're going to see in John 4, 1 to 45, as Jesus is loving John the Baptist and Jesus is loving the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman. And so we're going to be asking, how can we actually love like Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for sending your son to save us personally. Father, help us to love even as we have been loved, and make us more like Christ for the time we spend with you in your word today. In Jesus' name. Amen. John four, one to forty-five. Now, when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John Although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples, he left Judea and departed again for Galilee. And he had to pass through Samaria. So he came to a town of Samaria called Sikar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there, So Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink, for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? for Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that is saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water, so that I will not be thirsty, or have to come here to draw water. Jesus said to her, Go call your husband and come here. The woman answered him, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You are right in saying, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband. What you have said is true. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming. And is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and in truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. Just then his disciples came back. They marveled that he was talking with a woman. But no one said, What do you seek? Or why are you talking with her? So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people, Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Could this be the Christ? They went out of the town and were coming to him. Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. So the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him something to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish his work. Do you not say there are yet four months, then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together. For here the saying holds true, one sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him Because of the woman's testimony, he told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know, that this is indeed the Savior of the world. After the two days, he departed for Galilee, for Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown. So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they too had gone to the feast. Alright, so our focus question for today is how can we actually love people like Jesus? And I have a little confession to make, something that might surprise you. But I I actually kinda get annoyed sometimes when people say, We need to love people like Jesus did. Sometimes it's because There's kind of an agenda behind that statement. It means we sort of gloss over differences or moral issues and we just sort of have this wide open attitude of whatever goes. But there's actually a deeper reason why I sometimes get annoyed by that because Jesus is God. And in his earthly ministry, Jesus did and did and said all sorts of things that we cannot do because we're not God. So years ago when the WWJD thing was really popular, what would Jesus do? And people were reading the book in His Steps by Charles Sheldon. Um, that's actually not what biblical discipleship is about, asking what would Jesus do, because Jesus did, again, all sorts of things. What would Jesus do? Jesus would heal the leper, would cast out demons, would calm the storm, would walk on water, would feed five thousand. Jesus would would forgive people out of his own authority We can't do any of that because we're not Jesus. But my little irritation and theological uh squabbling with some of these problems Needs to be set aside because there is a very valid question we need to ask, and that is, how can we love as Jesus did? Because we are to be like Christ. Christ is in us. We are in him by faith. And the Holy Spirit is making us more like Jesus And so we need to be more Christ-like, and we need to have a Christ-like love. And that's so much more than just being nice. and not being controversial or leaving things alone or welcoming and tolerating all things. Jesus was actually pretty confrontational at times. In his love, but always in a loving way, and always with a purpose of redemption. He called things as they were. He spoke the truth in love. And today we have a good example in this passage of how Jesus loved people, how he loved John the Baptist, how he loved the Samaritan woman at the well, how he loved the whole Samaritan village of Sikar. So let's take a look at that. Jesus loved John the Baptist by giving him space for ministry and avoiding the perception that he was competing with him. As soon as Jesus heard that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John. He leaves Judea and departs for Galilee. Remember, yesterday we talked about John the Baptist and how he said that Christ must increase and he must decrease. That came because people were coming to John and sort of taunting him with this idea of, hey, the one you baptized, the one you testified about, he's over there and he's he's got more people following him now than you do. And it was this competition thing that was being set up down there in Judea. And Jesus said, I don't want to be part of this. John the Baptist still has his ministry. Even though I'm here, he's still preparing people for me and directing people to me. He's got an important ministry. I'm gonna back off. I'm gonna go back to Galilee, which is where I'm from. I'm gonna do my ministry in Galilee, which is actually what the book of Isaiah said Jesus would do is the light would shine in Galilee. And so he respected the boundaries. He respected John's giftedness, John's ministry, and wasn't trying to compete with him. One of the things that bothers me about the American church scene is that very often ministries are kind of in competition with one another. We're like, well, there's only a certain number of church-going Christians in this area and I need to get them And they have them and if my attendance is lower than theirs or theirs is higher than mine, blah blah blah blah. Like that's not the kingdom mindset. That's not what we're called to be about. We're called to be about exalting Jesus and loving people. And sometimes loving people as churches means we respect other churches. We respect what God has called them to do And we don't see ourselves as competing with one another, but rather as all being on the same team and all bringing people to Jesus. So then Jesus gets to the well, and we are told specifically in verse 5 or 6 that Jesus was wearied from his journey. And he was sitting beside the well. Jesus was a real human being. He got tired. He got hungry. He got thirsty. So he's sitting by the well. But when the Samaritan woman comes, At the sixth hour, which is about noon, which is about midday, which is not when you typically draw water, and he sees a woman coming by herself to draw water, of course, and he then knows everything about her. He knows why she's coming. He takes the initiative. So he loves the Samaritan woman by taking the initiative with her, inviting her into a conversation with him. Last night, as I'm recording this, so this will go out on Wednesday, um, but on Monday night, so the night before last, we had men's uh Bible study. And we're doing the book Wiser with Jesus by Zach Eswine, which is applying Proverbs to our lives and our relationships. But it's more than just a book on Proverbs. Because Jesus is the ultimate fulfillment of wisdom. And if we want to be wiser with Jesus, we need to like go to Proverbs, but we also need to look at the life of Jesus. So we did kind of a deep dive on this conversation that Jesus had with the Samaritan woman. And it's great the way that it's unpacked in in that book and in the conversation we had Monday night. And so Jesus expresses a need to this woman. He asks her for a drink of water. He asks her to meet a need that he has. It's a very open and inviting way to initiate a conversation to really enter into um an an interaction with someone on a meeting full way. It's not about let me tell you what I know first, but first it's this invitation. And it really is crossing a cultural barrier. So he's dealing with the cultural hurt, the cultural baggage, the cultural barriers that are there, because she's a Samaritan woman and he's a Jewish man. So he reaches across this taboo, this chasm that culture had fixed, and he asks for a drink. A very simple request, but it was very intentional. was taking the initiative, it was being vulnerable, it was allowing her to meet his need, and it was reaching across a cultural barrier. We can love people that way. People that the world says we shouldn't love. people that maybe are in a weaker position than we are, relatively speaking, but they s we still are have needs, even Jesus as the perfect Son of God, as a human being, had needs. And we can engage people on that level. But the next thing Jesus does is he loves the Samaritan woman by lovingly confronting her in her need. So he asks her for a drink, she says he asks her for a drink, she gives him a drink, he's drinking, and he says, Look, if you knew the gift of God and who it is it's saying to you, give me a drink You would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. Zach Eswine in his book Wiser with Jesus says that Jesus is here inviting her into wonder. Like, what is he talking about? Like I would say creating cognitive dissonance because that's a technical term. If you want to teach somebody something, you have to blow their minds a little bit. You have to get them to think, wait a minute, this is different, this is weird, this is unexpected. Where are we going? And so Jesus creates cognitive dissonance or he invites her to wonder, what is he talking about, this living water? So she says, you have nothing to draw water with. The well's deep. Where are you going to get this living water? And as they're engaging in this in this in this conversation, she Wants the water. Sounds good to her. Water that you can drink of and have eternal life. A spring of water within you. This sounds really good. I want some of this. So she says, verse 15, give me this water. And he, this is where he confronts her in her need, go call your husband and come here. There's a reason why this woman is drawing water at noonday by herself, rather than in the morning with the other women from the village. which is how everyone else would have drawn water. You need water for the day. You go out when it's still cool because you're gonna have to carry this big heavy water jar back. And you go with a group of people so that you're safe against people who might try to attack you. This woman coming out by herself in the heat of the day is an outcast. And she's an outcast because of her history. She's been disowned, discarded, divorced by five men, and now she's living with a man who's not her husband. Jesus directly confronts that need. Are we willing to love people enough? To ask them hard questions and deal with real needs and not just protect ourselves by saying, I'm not going to go there. Jesus was willing to go there with this woman, lovingly, but he went there. Then he loves a Samaritan woman by directing her to himself. They get into this conversation. This theological conversation, because she says, Sir, I perceive you're a prophet, and then she says, You know, our fathers worshiped on this mountain. Do you say Jerusalem is the place to worship? What is it? He answers, he answers that question. And in this answer to the question, we get some beautiful truth about worship. You're not going to worship either on the mountain or in Jerusalem, but the Father seeks people to worship him in spirit and in truth. But then the woman tries to sort of put him off by saying, well, I know that when the Messiah comes, he's going to tell us all things. Maybe she was a little bit offended by the fact that he said, You worship what you don't know, we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews, but that's just the truth. He knew it because he is the salvation. He is salvation from the Jews So she's kind of putting him off, maybe she was offended, I don't know. But she's putting them off. And then we get the point in verse 26, I who speak to you am He. Enough of the theology talk, enough of the this, that, backforth. Let me tell you, I'm he. What Jesus says is, the one who's speaking to you, I am. It's again ego-me in the Greek. It's several places in John's Gospel where Jesus says, I am. And that's an echo back to when God, Yahweh, the great I Am, revealed himself to Moses at the burning bush in Exodus 3, and he says, I am who I am. Tell them that I am has sent you. So how he commissions Moses. So Jesus is intentionally recalling this. In other words, he's saying, I am the Messiah, and I am the great I am. I am He. In between here, want to see that Jesus loves the Samaritan woman by inviting her to worship God in spirit and in truth. He's talking to her about her worship. He's talking to her about the true worshipers and what the Father is seeking. He's inviting her to be a true worshiper. It's not enough to have head knowledge of correct theology. The goal of the gospel is to reconcile us to God so that we can rightly worship Him. And that's what Jesus points her to. Then he loves the Samaritan woman by allowing her to go and bring others to him. When she walked away. Jesus could have said to the disciples, because it takes your time to go to the village and tell everybody and bring them back, Jesus could have said to the disciples, okay, let's get out of here. Guys, we got to get home. We we have a place to be. Let's go. But he waits. And he prepares his disciples for what's about to happen. He allows this woman to bring others to him. He encourages her work, her witness. Others are sowing, he tells the disciples, and you are reaping. Well, Jesus is one who is sowing, and now the Samaritan woman is one who is sowing. And the disciples are going to be the ones who get to reap from what Jesus has sown into the life of the Samaritan woman and then what the Samaritan woman has sown into the life of her village, inviting other people. into ministry. And honoring their efforts and their labors is so important to really loving people. And then finally the last thing I want to see is that notice he stays another two days with them. They were on their way to Galilee. They have a place to be. But he stops and he stays for two more days. So the seventh way Jesus loves is that Jesus takes time out of his schedule to love the Samaritan woman and her town. This is the only village in the Gospels, this is the only village that comes to Jesus. And it's a Samaritan village. The Samaritans are half-breeds. They're not even real Israelites. They don't have a correct form of worship. They have a very bizarre theology that's not correct. Right? So they're they're ethnically incorrect, they're they're liturgically incorrect, they're theologically incorrect, and yet Jesus loves them. Jesus stays there and he loves them and he gives himself to them so that they can believe in him. Christ-like love is inconvenient, it's uncomfortable, it's truth-telling, it's barrier crossing, it's sin confronting, it's gospel proclaiming love. It's not this nebulous, vague, let's just love people the way Jesus loved people, meaning let's not ever say anything that's divisive or let's not say anything that's hard or let's not go there to those difficult things. Let's just love people. There's nothing just about loving the way Jes you know, nothing merely about loving the way Jesus loved. It's a wholehearted, it's a full life-on-life love. Jesus didn't avoid the tough issues. Jesus didn't avoid the tough people. Jesus spoke the truth in love. It's easy to stand at a distance and judge and point. It's easy to come in and not say anything. Jesus doesn't do either one of those things. He comes in and he speaks the truth in love. He brings people to himself. Jesus was committed to a life of love that was costly, that would ultimately cost him his life. We need to do the same. We need to love like Jesus in the real, inconvenient, uncomfortable, truth-telling. Barrier crossing, sin confronting, gospel proclaiming way. May God give us the grace to do so. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you for Jesus. Thank you that he came to love us. Not to just tolerate us or to leave things vague and unspoken. But thank you that Jesus came to love us enough to save us from our sin, to save us into his kingdom. May we, by your Holy Spirit, have the courage of conviction and the compassion of heart to love like Christ. In His name we pray Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow as we finish up chapter 4 of John's Gospel. Have a blessed day in the Lord.