Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter for a day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 630th day together in God God's Word, and we are in Luke chapter 2, one of the most famous chapters in Scripture, sometimes with something that's so familiar to us. We can just sort of have heard it so many times that it kind of goes in one ear and out the other. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us to really attend to his word and hear what he's speaking to us today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is precious. It's a treasure. It's a sword. It's a banquet. It's a gift. Father, help us to receive, help us to treasure and value. Help us to to eat your word by faith. Help us to receive it to our hearts and to respond to you in faith and obedience for the glory of your name we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Luke chapter two In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This was the first registration when Quirinius was governor of Syria, and all went to be registered each to his own town, and Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth. And she gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths. and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field keeping watch over their flock by night. Night. And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not. For behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ. And this will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom He is pleased. When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. And they went with haste And found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen as it had been taught. And when the time came for their purification according to the law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to Or two young pigeons. Now there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him in his arms. And blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen seen your salvation that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light for revelation to the Gentiles and for glory to your people, Israel. And his father and mother marveled at what was said about him. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is appointed For the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that is opposed, and a sword will pierce through your own soul also so that thoughts from many hearts may be revealed. And there was the prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phenul of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from when she was a virgin, and then as a widow until she was eighty four. She did not depart from the temple worshipping with fasting and prayer night Night and day, and coming up at that very hour, she began to give thanks to God and to speak of him to all who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem Jerusalem. And when they had performed everything according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own town of Nazareth, and the child grew. And became strong, filled with wisdom. And the favor of God was upon him. Now his parents went to Jerusalem. Jerusalem every year at the feast of Passover, and when he was twelve years old they went up according to the custom, and when the feast was ended, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. His parents did not know it But supposing him to be in the group, they went a day's journey, but then they began searching for him among their relatives and acquaintances, and when understanding and his answers. And when his parents saw him, they were astonished. And his mother said to him, Son, why have you treated us so? Behold, your father and I have been searching for you in great distress. And he said to them, Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my father's house? And they did not understand that The saying that he spoke to them, and he went down with them and came to Jerusalem, and was submissive to them, and his mother treasured up all these things in her heart. And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. Well, what we have here in Luke, just like chapter one, is a very lengthy and very packed chapter. There is so much to see in this chapter. Hmm, good tea, fat tea right now. Yay, tasty First of all, God moves the heart of the most powerful man in the world. Yesterday we saw the heart of the most powerful man in the world, then, right? Right, in uh about four hundred and fifty years before this, Arta Xerxes, and his heart was moved to honor the Lord. Now Caesar Augustus, his heart's not moved to honor the Lord, his heart's moved to honor. Honor himself. He wants to count the people in his empire. But God has moved his heart sovereignly because the heart of the king is in the hands of the Lord to direct how he he wills. And so he uses Caesus' pride to count all the people in his empire. Why? Well, Joseph and Mary are in Nazareth, and Jesus needs to be born in Bethlehem, according to Micah 5. 2. But you, Bethlehem Ephraim, though you are released among the tribes of Judah, from you will come one who is to be ruler of my people Israel. And so gotta get Mary and Joseph to Bethlehem, so a census is taken of the whole Roman world, among all the other things that God was accomplishing in his sovereignty. This is part of what he was doing. And so the time comes for her to give birth, and she gives birth to her firstborn. Notice that there's this detail repeated three times. If you've heard me teach on Luke 2 before, you've Heard me say this, but this is so important. We overlook this. It's a detail repeated three times. In verse 7, she gives birth to her firstborn son, wrapped him in swaddling cloths, laid him in a manger. So that's what happens and what she does. And then in verse twelve, the angel says to the shepherd Shepherds, this will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger. And then, when they go, where do they see? Verse 16, they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child, that this would be a sign for you. You would find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths. Lying in a manger. So what is this significance of this? Is it just this is how you're going to know who the baby is? Hmm. That's not usually what the Bible means by a sign. Verse 12, when it says this will be a sign for you, a sign is is usually something that God reveals that shows some great spiritual truth. So then we have to realize these shepherds that were keeping watch over their flocks by night, Bethlehem's only about five miles out. They are within walking distance of the temple, and they are watching over flocks of sheep. These flocks of sheep, many of them are going to end up as sacrifices. In the temple. Some of them will end up as Passover lambs. But the Passover lambs had to be very special. They had to be spotless lambs without any spot or wrinkle. They had to be Flawless. What do you do when a sheep is born and lamb is born and you clean it up and you wash it off and it's spotless? It's not going to stay that way unless you do something to keep it That way, and that sheep is much more valuable to the shepherds. So the shepherds would take that sheep, they would wrap it in strips of cloth to keep it from hurting itself, injuring itself, soiling itself, and And they would lay it in a manger, so that the spotless lamb could be delivered to the temple to be the Passover lamb. That is a powerful sign to the shepherds. of who this one is who had come into the world. He's come to be the Christ, the Messiah, a Savior, Christ the Lord, but he's also come to be a Passover lamb who would lay down his life for his people. Now I don't know that anybody who was there fully understood the meaning of that, but it was the sign That was given, and that sign was communicated, and I think Mary, who gave this material to Luke, recorded it and made note of it, that it was significant. And of course, she's writing this down, giving this to Luke after the cross. So I think after the cross, she understood what the significance of that sign was, since Jesus died as the Lamb of God at Passover. Some 33 years or so later, after this birth. What else do we see here? Well, we see that his name is called Jesus. which is the name given to him by the angel before he had been conceived in the womb. The Gospel of Matthew gives us a little bit more information about that name, in that Joseph is told by the angel, you shall call his name. Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. But this name Jesus is given to us in verse 21. And then just a little while later, we see Simeon in the temple saying to the Lord, Now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation and in Hebrew Yeshua Jesus and salvation are the same word they're the same it's It's the male name version of this word, salvation, because he was called that because he will save his people from their sins. So Simeon says, My My eyes have seen your salvation. This baby is salvation, and that's why he was called Jesus. I love Simeon and Anna, just these faithful men and woman of God who've been in the temple for so many years waiting. They are a picture to us of faithfulness, of patience. of expectation, right, and of God blessing them, and they bless others. Simeon has a word of blessing which stuns everyone and then a word of sorrow that the way this blessing is going to come is that Jesus is going to be a sign who was opposed, and a sword's even going to pierce the soul of Mary as Simeon is Is prophetically foretelling what would happen at the cross. And Mary, Mary keeps that in her heart, as we're told at the end of this chapter, she keeps that in our heart. They go back to Nazareth. He grows up, becomes strong, filled with wisdom. The favor of God is upon him. were given that note twice. This reads so much like something a mother would write about her boy, doesn't it? I I think that's why I strongly favor uh The idea that this m source material comes from Mary. She would be the best source for this, but also it's true, of course, it's the Word of God. It's ultimately given by inspiration of the Holy Spirit. No doubt about it. But you know, the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom. The favor of God was upon him in verse 40, and then at the end of this chapter, Jesus increased in wisdom and in staff. And we're also told twice that Mary treasured these things in her heart, that they were important to her. And I think that is something really only Mary could know that in that deep internal way. But the last thing we have in this chapter, in chapter two, is when Jesus goes to the temple. Uh he's there, he's twelve years old. It's important to note that he's twelve years old because that was when he became A man under the law of bar mitzvah, he became a man, he became of of equal standing, you know, as someone who's who's accountable before God. And so he He leaves his parents and he goes to engage in discussion in the temple. After three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them. And asking them questions, and all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers. It is significant that it's three days. He was sort of lost. and then recovered three days later. It's a little bit of a preview of the fact that he's going to die and be buried for three days and then recovered and and Mary will be one of the first ones to see him after he's Raised again from the dead, one of the first ones to see him. So what's he doing here? He is showing us why he's come. Fulfillment of the temple, the wisdom of God incarnate, and the salvation for the people of God. This great Jesus, this most important man who's ever lived, this one without pure Without equal. We must know him as our Savior. We must know him as our wisdom. We must know him as our treasure. We must treasure him in our hearts, and we must tell others about him. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, what a great gift you gave us when you gave us your Son. You could give us nothing better than your one and only Son, and He could bring us nothing better than salvation to right Reconcile us to you, bring us back to you. We thank you for Jesus our Savior. Please help us to grow in Him day by day, in faith and love, and obedience, in joyful discipleship, and joyful proclamation. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Luke chapter two today. Tomorrow we are going to be jumping back to the book of Ezra. can join me for that. As always I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.