Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 648. We're back in the Gospel of Luke, picking up with Luke chapter 7. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we need you. We need you to be our teacher. We need you to be our Our God, our Savior, the one who instructs us in the truth, but also the one who shapes our hearts to follow after the truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Luke chapter 7. After he had finished all his sayings in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum Now, a centurion had a servant who was sick and at the point of death, who was highly valued by him. When the centurion heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and heal his servant. And when they came to Jesus, they pleaded with him earnestly, saying, He is worthy to have you do this for him, for he loves our nation, and he is the one who built our synagogue. And Jesus went with him. When he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying, Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof Therefore I did not presume to come to you. But say the word, and your s my servant will be healed, for I too am a man set under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, go and he goes, and to another come and he comes, and to my servant, do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard these things, He marveled at him, and turning to the crowd that followed him, said, I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such faith. And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the servant well. Soon afterwards he went down to a town called Nain. And his disciples and a great crowd went with him, and he drew near to the gate of the town. Behold, a man who had died was being carried out. the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a considerable crowd from the town was with her. And when the Lord saw her he had compassion on her, and said to her, Do not weep Then he came up and touched the beer, and the bearers stood still. And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. And the dead man sat up and began to speak. And Jesus gave him to his mother. Fear seized them all, and they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has arisen among us, and God has visited his people. And this report about him spread through the whole of Judea and all the surrounding country. The disciples of John reported all these things to him, and John, calling two of his disciples to him, sent them to the Lord, saying, Are you the one who was to come, or shall we look for another? And when the men had come to him, they said, John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? In that hour he healed many people of diseases and plagues and evil spirits, and on many who were blind he bestowed sight. And he answered them, Go and tell John what you have seen and heard. The blind received their sight The lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have good news preached to them. And blessed is the one who is not offended by me. When John's messengers had gone, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John. What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are dressed in splendid clothing and live in luxury are in king's courts What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face. who will prepare your way before you. I tell you, among those born of women, none is greater than John. Yet the one who is the least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. When all the people heard this and the tax collectors too, they declared God just, having been baptized by the baptism of John But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the purposes of God for themselves, not having been baptized by Him. To what then shall I compare the people of this generation, and what are they like? They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, we played a flute for you and you did not dance. We sang a dirge and you did not weep. For John the Baptist had come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say he has a demon. The Son of Man comes eating and drinking, and you say, Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners Yet wisdom is justified by all her children. One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him And he went into the Pharisees' house and reclined at table. And behold, a woman of the city who was a sinner, when she learned that he was reclining at table in the Pharisee's house. brought an alabaster flask of ointment, and standing behind him at his feet weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. and wiped them with the hair of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment. Now when the Pharisees who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, If this man were a prophet, he would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him, for she is a sinner. And Jesus, answering, said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you And he answered, Say it, teacher. A certain moneylender had two debtors. One owed five hundred to Neri, and the other fifty. When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both. Now, which of them will love him more? Simon answered. The one I suppose for whom he cancelled the larger debt. And he said to him, You have judged rightly. Then turning toward the woman, he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house, you gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in she has not ceased to kiss my feet. You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment. Therefore, I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But he who has forgiven little loves little And he said to her, Your sins are forgiven. Then those who were at the table with him began to say among themselves, Who is this? Who even forgives sins? And he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. That is Luke chapter seven, and another wonderfully full chapter here from Luke. First of all, we have a centurion, a Roman soldier. And really the focus in this passage, as throughout this chapter, is that Jesus does not evaluate people by the same standard, the same measure that the world uses. The world looks at people who have position and rank and influence and money and uh charisma have pull as people who are important. And people will Ingratiate themselves to those people, they will kiss up to them, they will they will try everything they can to be on their good side because they're hoping to get something in return. So the selfish approach to life is a life is an approach that says, be nice to those who are in a position to repay you and enrich your life. And so the Jewish leadership comes to Jesus, the elders of the Jews, they come to Jesus and they say, here's a centurion. who is worthy to have you, our great local miracle worker, go and do this thing for him Heal his servant who is sick and at the point of death. He's worthy because he loves our nation. He's the one who built our synagogue. Jesus, he's a guy of real position and power. He has the ability to bless, protect, and further your ministry if you will play your cards right. Jesus is not really interested in playing his cards right. He's not interested in earthly support from a centurion or from the elders of the Jews or anyone else. But Jesus goes along with them because he already knows something about this centurion that they don't And we hear it from the messengers who come to Jesus. Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof. The centurion is a man of humility who understands that he is not worthy to have Jesus do this for him. That's the thing about coming into the kingdom of God, about coming to Jesus. You don't come because you think you're worthy. You come because you know you're not worthy. And then he s makes this amazing statement of faith. I says, say the word, and my servant will be healed, for I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me, and I say to one, Go and he goes, and come and he comes. And if you will just say the word, my servant will be healed. And Jesus marvels. Jesus already knew something about this centurion. It's why he's going along. But when he hears this and sees this, he is, he marvels. And he says to everyone around him, nowhere in Israel. Have I found such faith? Here's a Roman centurion, here's an outsider, here's a foreigner, an oppressor, and nowhere in Israel have I seen such faith. And that servant was made well. Humility and faith. I am not worthy, but I believe. And then he runs into a widow coming out of Nain. Now widows have no real social power. They are the bottom of the rung in terms of power and influence. and prestige. But this widow must have been a woman who treated others with kindness and respect and generosity because there is a large crowd, a considerable crowd from the town. who is with her. They're not going to get anything from her. She's a widow and she's burying her only son. She's now left without protection. without standing in the world. That's the way it worked. If you were a widow and had no children, you were left completely destitute, without protection, without standing in the world. But Jesus Loved her. Jesus had compassion on her. Jesus reached out to her. This is just another example of Jesus caring. for the least of these, but also valuing things that the world doesn't value. He has compassion on this woman. who I think has been a woman of compassion herself, judging from the considerable crowd that is with her He raises the young man, and he gets up and is restored to his mother, who will now have protection and provision in this life And the people glorify God and say, even God has visited his people. They were more right than they knew. They thought this was a prophet, and they meant God has visited in the way that God has shown favor, but actually the Son of God God himself incarnate was in their midst. And then we have these messengers from John the Baptist. What do we make of this? Well, John the Baptist is in prison. And I think we can see two different things happening here. One is John himself is perhaps a bit discouraged. Downhearted because he was faithful in answering God's call. He knew that his job was to prepare the way for the Messiah. He knew that he was not himself the Messiah. He had baptized Jesus. He had seen crowds start to go after Jesus. He was happy that this was happening. He said, He must increase and I must decrease. We get that from the Gospel of John. But I don't know that he was expecting to be thrown into jail and arrested and then threatened with beheading. I think he was anticipating that he was going to be following the Messiah. He was going to be preparing the way for the Messiah and then following the Messiah and here he is in jail. And the second thing that's on his mind is the fact that his disciples are still coming to see him and are still looking to him and have not themselves gone after Jesus, which if John knows anything, he knows they should be going after Jesus. And so he has his disciples go And inquire, are you the one to come, or shall we look for another? And I think he's looking for reassurance for himself at one level, but he's also looking to redirect his disciples to follow Jesus. And Jesus basically just says, watch. Just watch what's happening here. And then go and tell. And what is what he what is the significance of what he says to go tell John in verse 22 is that the I the book Isaiah, uh the prophet Isaiah, had foretold that the Messiah was going to do all of these things. And so John, knowing his scripture, knowing Isaiah the Prophet, because John's own ministry is contained there in Isaiah the Prophet, the beginning of chapter 2. So Jesus is saying, Go and tell John what you have seen and heard. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the poor have good news preached to them. This is exactly what was foretold of the Messiah's ministry. So after John's messengers go back, Jesus then confronts the crowd. Again, this is about what society values and how society evaluates things versus what Jesus is doing. And here we find out that society values people who meet their expectations. And not people who challenged their expectations. John came not eating or drinking, living out in the wilderness, living a very austere lifestyle, and they said to him, Oh. He has a demon. And Jesus came eating and drinking and enjoying the company of people and feasting. And they said, ah, he's a glutton and a drunkard. They wanted to be able to play the flute for John and Jesus and have them dance. They wanted to be able to sing a dirge and have them weep. In other words, they wanted John and Jesus to meet their expectation. they were not ready for a real prophet of God and the real Messiah to come and challenge their own expectations. And this is the way so many people approach the Lord. We say, Lord, I'll believe in you if you will bless and establish my agenda, my plan. I have a plan for my life It's the American dream. I'm going to get married. I'm going to have kids. I'm going to have a successful job. I'm going to have a nice house. I'm going to have a nice cars, my kids will go to nice schools, we'll have a comfortable life without very much hassle. And if you'll get on board and bless what I want, then I'll believe in you. We don't want God to yank us out of our own selfish agenda and actually put us on a different trajectory. where we are giving of ourselves to others, where we are sacrificing of ourselves for the sake of the kingdom. But you know what? That's the only place where real joy is found. And this woman, the sinful woman who closes out this chapter, she's one who gets it. She gets it And perhaps it's because her dreams for her own life were completely shattered and she had nothing. She was just a sinful woman who, to put it bluntly, she slept with men so that she could eat. And she could have a life. That's what she's doing. She has nothing but her body that she can sell to men to get enough money to be able to eat. This was unfortunately the condition for a lot of women in the ancient world. But she's known by the rest of the town as a sinful woman. And she is, I mean it's not right what she's doing, but she knows that. She's she's distraught. And so she comes in with an alabaster flask of ointment. All probably all that she had saved up from her immoral lifestyle. her treasure, her you know, her safety net, her investment of what would keep her going when her trade was no longer viable for her. Right? And she breaks it at his feet and she anoints his feet. And she cries and washes his feet with her tears. And she dries them with her hair, and she's kissing his feet. And Jesus is showing us. That here is a woman who understands that she is a sinner who needs forgiveness and that Jesus is the only one who can set her free and forgive her. But the respectable Pharisee who's hosting it, Simon, he doesn't get it. He thinks that somehow because he's a respectable Pharisee, Jesus should be thankful that he's just invited him over for lunch He should feel honored and privileged to have the access to Simon's house. No. He didn't understand how much he needed forgiveness. He thought He was only a little bit of a sinner, but a great man of God. The truth is, he was only a little bit of a man of God, and a hypocritical one at that, and a great sinner. And so because he didn't understand how much he needed forgiveness, he didn't have much love in his heart for Jesus. But this woman knew how much she needed forgiveness. And although she was poorer and much less reputable and much more openly immoral, She was a sinner who needed salvation and knew how much she needed Jesus. And that's what matters in the kingdom of God. That is really all that matters in the kingdom of God I pray that we would have a heart like the heart of Jesus, that we would see and value the things that he sees and values, and that we would see ourselves with this sinful woman. Or with the centurion. Whether we're someone of relative power and prominence, as as most of us who live comfortable middle class suburban lives are, frankly, we're more like the centurion, or like the sinful woman. That we would see ourselves first and for first of all as people who are not worthy, but people who need Jesus. And then we would go out into the world and look for people who know they're not worthy. But who know they need Jesus and give them Jesus. Let's pray. Father, you are so good. Your goodness is unfailing. Your faithfulness is strong. Your grace is amazing. Your forgiveness is full and free in Jesus Christ. We are not worthy. But oh, how we need Jesus. Forgive us. And change our hearts and minds so that we see things the way you see them. And we value things the way you value them. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that's Luke chapter seven. Tomorrow we are going to be back in the book of Nehemiah. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.