Good morning, good morning, good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 624. And we're beginning a new book of the Bible, one of the longest, maybe the longest book of the New Testament, I think it is by by written length. The Gospel of Luke is said to be the maximum length. that a scroll could be uh in the first century in Greek. Um it is the longest gospel, the longest book in the New Testament, and it's a wonderful gospel. Of course, all All four Gospels are wonderful, but Luke is a physician and a historian who did thorough research and who was writing To a primarily Greek audience. Um it is some of the highest Greek, some of the most educated Greek, especially the opening. uh sentence. Luke is not an eyewitness to the life of Jesus. He was not there. He was a traveling companion of the apostles, of the Apostle Paul, and later worked with Peter. Um and so the leading theory on Luke's composition of this gospel is that he wrote it from Rome with the Apostle Paul, as the Apostle Paul was um imprisoned in Rome and uh perhaps awaiting his execution in the 60s AD under Nero. We don't know for sure exactly when and where Luke wrote this. We're relying on sort of early church history, early church tradition uh for that background information. Uh but in in some ways this has sort of been associated as Paul's gospel. because Luke was a well-known traveling companion with the Apostle Paul. It's volume one of a two-volume literary work, Luke Acts. And so Luke is volume one and Acts is volume two, just like we're in Ezra and Ezra's volume one and Nehemiah's volume two. So even though they're not next to each other in your Bible, because the Gospel of John comes in between, Luke and Acts are really part one and part two of what Jesus has done in his earthly ministry and then after he went back. Back into heaven through the church. Let's pray, and we'll dig into Luke chapter 1 today. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your word. It is a blessing, a treasure house. We can spend every day of our lives, literally, studying your word, and never understand all of it. We can come back to passages that are super familiar to us and find new insights and new things to notice and new applications for our lives based upon where we are at that time. And it's just wonderful. It's just such a treasure house for us. Your word is. So please write your word on our hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Luke chapter 1. Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us, just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us. It seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, To write an orderly account to you, most excellent Theophilus, that you may have certainty concerning the things that you have been taught. In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. Now, while he was serving as priest before God, when his division was on duty, according to the custom of the priesthood, he was drawn by lot, chosen by lot. to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense, and there appeared to him an angel of the Lord, standing on the right side of the altar of incense And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him, but the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah For your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear a son, and you shall call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great before the Lord, and he must not drink strong wine or strong drink. And he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. And he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people. Prepared. And Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years. And the angel answered him, I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news. And behold, you will be silent, and unable to speak, until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time. And the people were waiting for Zechariah. And they were wondering at his delay in the temple. And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them. And they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained immediately. And when his time of service was ended, he went to his home. After those days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying, The Lord has done for me. Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me to take away my reproach among the people. In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David. David. And the virgin's name was Mary. And he came to her and said, Greetings, O favored One, the Lord is with you. But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be, and the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign Reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. And Mary said to the angel, How will this be, since I am a virgin? And the angel said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon me. Upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore the child to be born will be called Holy, the Son of God And behold, your relative Elizabeth, in her old age, has also conceived a son, and this is the sixth month with her who was called Baron. For nothing will be impossible with God. And Mary said, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. Let it be done to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her In those days Mary arose and went with haste into the hill country, to a town in Judah. And she entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth, and when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, The baby leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, and she exclaimed with a loud cry, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb, and why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy, and blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what was spoken to her from the Lord. And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant, for behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed, and he who is mighty has done great things for me. Me and holy is his name. And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud and the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away. empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home. Now the time came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son. And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown great mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her. And on the eighth day they came to circumcise And they made signs to his father inquiring what he wanted him to be called, and he asked for a writing tablet and wrote, His name is John. And they all wondered. And immediately his mouth was opened, and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, blessing God. And fear came on all their neighbors. And all these things were talked about through all the hill country of Judea, and all who heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, What then will this child be? For the hand of the Lord was with him, and his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, for he has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old. that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us, to show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. the oath that he swore to our father Abraham to grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all our days And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins. Because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, and God Our feet in the way of peace. And the child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his public appearance. to Israel. That is Luke chapter one. You may have thought, well, Luke only has 24 chapters. How can it be the longest book in the New Testament? Matthew has 28. Well, you've got 80 verses in this first chapter. So this is a long book, and there's so much. It's just a rich treasure trove of truth and um just so many points of application. There's no way we can do justice to these uh to these eighty verses in just a few short minutes. But let me just make a few brief observations. First of all, Luke is writing both of these volumes of his history in Luke and Acts two theme. Theophilus. Now the word Theophilus, the name Theophilus means lover of God. It may have been an actual man who was a patron of Luke, who may have sponsored the writing of the gospel in the book of Acts, that's that's possible, or it may just be a general address to he's writing this to people who love God. And so he's using that name as a general title. This is written to those who love God. He's saying that he is uh searching out these things. He's followed them carefully for some time, and he has uh he has decided to to write an orderly account, a a a a true and reliable account, in other words. uh based upon good evidence. And so he's done this investigation and written this book. And what's interesting is this these first four verses are all one sentence in Greek, which is a high Greek, which is is a educated scholarly Greek, and uh it's written with um complicated vocabulary and complicated sentence structure. And then immediately as you jump into verse five, all the way from verse five of chapter one to the end of chapter two. In what's known as the infancy narrative, this is uh written in much simpler Greek, much more like the Greek of someone who doesn't have as high of an education. and for whom Greek was not their first language. That's kind of the way of translating. So uh for example, when I started taking Greek in seminary years ago, one of the first sections that we could translate was from the infancy narratives and then the Gospel of John and then 1st and 2nd and 3rd John, which is all very simple. But the rest of Luke, you couldn't really tackle that until like second or third semester. of Greek because it was much more complex. What does that mean? Well we don't know for sure. I think that Luke's source for this material was Mary. We get a very personal account from Mary's perspective of many details, especially we'll see this when we we're in chapter two. And so I think that Luke got his source material from Mary, that Mary had even written this down. But you know, in Luke 2, we're told that she treasured up these things, pondering them in her heart. I think she wrote them down later in life, and that she passed that along to Luke, and Luke included it. That's my that's a very popular theory, and I think it's a good one, and it's the one that I agree with because it seems to fit the evidence. But we have a contrast here between Mary and Zechariah. And they're very, very different. Zechariah is an older man who's a priest. He's He's in a position of authority. He's in a place of great privilege. He's in the temple, a worshiping God. He's been chosen to burn incense before the Lord during the hour of incense. He is in a high position. position, but he's an older man, a respected man, a leader within Israel. They were righteous. He and his wife were righteous before God, walking blamelessly in the commandment. And statues of the Lord, but they had no child. Elizabeth was barren, and that was a reproach to her She was looked down upon. She was kind of shunned by the women in the village because she didn't have a baby and they all had children, probably grandchildren by this. time and here she was childless and really for a woman in ancient Israel that was a shameful thing and so although they were righteous and blameless And although they walked in the law of God, and they were respected for their character, they were also shamed because of their childlessness. Now where is Zechariah? He's in the temple. He's burning incense before the Lord, and he's greeted in the temple by the angel Gabriel, who tells him this good news. Your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear a son. You will call his name John. You will have joy and gladness. Many will rejoice at his birth. And Zechariah says, uh how am I supposed to know this is going to happen or not? I'm an old man. My wife's advanced in years. He's making excuses for why. He's not really sure this is going to happen. And the answer is very strong and very powerful. for I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and bring you this good news. In other words, how dare you be here in the temple burning incense before God and doubt that I, his angel, who have supernaturally appeared to you in the very temple of God, that I would lie to you, that I would deceive you, that I would tell you something. Now it's easy for us to look down on Zechariah and say, what a foolish man Zechariah was. How dare he? But how many times have we doubted God's goodness? We think, well, we know the truth. We know God is Almighty. We know that He's good. We know that He's trustworthy. His promises are all true. And yet when it comes to our lives, we're filled with doubt, fear, anxiety, complaining. What are all those things? Doubts, fears, anxieties, complaining? Those are all evidence of unbelief. Unbelief in the goodness of God and the goodness of His providence, and we give into them so quickly, so we are really no different from Zechariah. Then we have Mary. Mary is a young girl, a virgin. She's betrothed. She's a virgin betrothed, and yet they've not yet consummated the marriage. They've not yet because she's not married yet, right? Now, God, by blessing Elizabeth, took away her reproach socially. God, by blessing Mary, actually put her under reproach socially. What do we think of that You see, when God blesses us according to his goodness and his will for us, it's always a good thing, but it may not always be viewed as a good thing in the eyes of the world. The community rejoiced with Elizabeth. The community shunned Mary. So Mary is given greetings. She's told that she's found favor with God, that she is the favored one. whom the Lord is with. And she's going to miraculously have a son. And he is going to be the son of God. Now Mary doesn't understand how this can happen either. In fact, she pretty much asks the exact same question that Zechariah asks. But she doesn't get rebuked because for Zechariah it was not physically impossible that Mi Elizabeth would have a baby, they knew how the baby would come about. They were man and woman, husband and wife, they'd they'd been together for years and years, right? Here she's never been with a man. She's never known a man. She's still a virgin. How is that going to happen? So she's told graciously. So where Gabriel gave a stern rebuke to Zechariah. I think because of where Zechariah was and who Zechariah was, and the fact that Zechariah's question, while the same as Mary's, was really unbelief. Mary's was wonder and puzzlement Right? Not necessarily unbelief, but wonder and puzzlement. And so Gabriel gives her a gracious, gracious answer. And finally, I want to see their response. They both respond to the blessing of God. By praising the Lord. Praising the Lord. Their focus is on God and how great He is and how God is doing great things. Mary focusing on the mercy of God toward those who are low and despised by the world, and Zechariah focusing on the faithfulness of God in keeping his promises for the redemption of his people. Now what's interesting is both of these parents, their children, that they're thanking God for, that they're praising God for, are going to be brutally killed. by Roman rulers. And it's very reasonable, especially given Zechariah's song, that they were viewing the birth of these children as their deliverance under from under Rome, the overthrow of the Roman overlords But that's not exactly what God was doing. So God was doing something great. God was doing something good. God was blessing them. They praised God for it. But it wasn't going to be exactly according to their expectation. John would be beheaded, Jesus would be crucified, of course, Jesus would rise again from the dead. But it's a lesson to us that we need to trust God. We need to believe his goodness, believe his promises, but we need to not expect that he's always going to work according to our expectations and our values. He has his own purposes and his purposes are always good. and right. Well that's the opening of Luke's Gospel. We're going to have a wonderful time in this book over the coming months. I hope that you'll be with us. Let's Let's pray together. Father, you are so good. You are unfailing in your goodness. And we love you. Forgive us, because we are so prone to doubt. to fear, to anxiety, to grumbling. Because of our sinful nature, because of our lack of faith, because of our self-reliance, because whatever the reasons are, Father, it's wrong. Forgive us. Us. Have mercy on us. Strengthen our faith. Help us to rejoice in the work that you are doing in us and through us. Thank you for Jesus. Thank you for John the Baptist. Thank you for this gospel. But you are still at work. You are doing things in our lives today that we need to give you praise for. So help us to rejoice and to give thanks and to praise you for all that you are doing and will do. And we pray, come quickly, Lord Jesus, bring farther Final deliverance to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, that is Luke chapter one. We're going to go back to Ezra tomorrow. I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.