Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 695th day Together in the Word of God, and we have come to Luke chapter 18. Very important things to learn about prayer. among other things in this chapter, so let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, we need you. It's a privilege for us to be able to gather together every day around your word. It's a privilege to have this technology that allows us to be able to be together virtually, to pray and to study your word. and to grow together by the work of your Holy Spirit in each of our hearts and then all of our hearts together. But we need you. We need you to do that work. We need your Holy Spirit to be our teacher and our guide, to prepare the soil of our hearts to receive your word with faith and love, and to respond to your word with true, heartfelt obedience, obedience that flows from faith and not from fear. or from self-righteousness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, Luke chapter 18 And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart. He said, In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared not God, nor respected man. And there was a widow in that city who kept coming to him and saying, Give me justice against my adversary For a while he refused, but afterward he said to himself, Though I neither fear God nor respect man, yet because this widow keeps bothering me I will give her justice, so that she will not beat me down by her continual coming. And the Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge says, and will not God give justice to his elect? who cry to him day and night. Will he delay long over them? I tell you, he will give them justice speedily Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth? He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee standing by himself prayed thus. God I thank you that I am not like other men extortioners, unjust adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I get But the tax collector standing far off would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For every one who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted. Now they were bringing even infants to him, that he might touch them. And when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them to him, saying, Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them. For to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it And a ruler asked him, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments. Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness. Honor your father and mother. And he said, All these I have kept from my youth When Jesus heard this he said to him, One thing you still lack sell all that you have, and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasures in heaven, and come, follow me But when he heard these things, he became very sad, for he was extremely rich. Jesus, seeing that he had become sad, said, How difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God, for it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Those who heard it said, then who can be saved? But he said, what is impossible with man is possible with God. And Peter said, see, we have left our homes and followed you. And he said, And then, truly I say to you, there is no one. who has left house, or wife, or brothers, or parents, or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God, who will not receive many times more in this time and in the age to come eternal life. And taking the twelve, he said to them, See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and everything that is written about the Son of Man by the prophets will be accomplished, for he will be delivered over to the Gentiles, and will be mocked, and shamefully treated, and spit upon, and after flogging him they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise But they understood none of these things. The saying was hidden from them, and they did not grasp what was said. As he drew near to Jericho, a blind man was sitting by the roadside begging, and hearing a crowd going by, he inquired what this meant. They told him, Jesus of Nazareth is passing by. And he cried out, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. And those who were in front rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stopped and commanded him to be brought to him. And when he came near, he asked him, What do you want me to do for you? He said, Lord, let me recover my sight. And Jesus said to him, Recover your sight. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him, glorifying God. And the people, when they saw it, gave praise to God. That is Luke chapter 18 in the ESV. So how do we approach God? How do we relate to God? There's a theme here in chapter 18 of Luke. It's this. How do we approach God? How do we relate to God? And different people, because of their disposition, because of their personality, because of their self-concept, a lot of different things, cultural upbringing, background, they have different approaches to God. Some people are very, very fearful. Some people think, oh, God doesn't have time for me. I used to know a person who would say, you know, God has more important things to do. like run the whole world. He doesn't have really have time to listen to my prayers. My prayers don't matter that much to him. And that's just not true. Right? So this first parable that Jesus tells is for people who are fearful toward God. or who don't think God cares about them, Jesus wants them to pray and not lose heart. To get the point of this parable, you have to pay attention at first first. He told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart. He wants them to be persistent in prayer, like this persistent widow. God is not like this unjust judge. But Jesus is saying, even if there was an unjust judge, who neither feared God nor respected man, If a widow was persistent in bothering him, a widow being someone without power, without social capital, without leverage she can apply over the judge, Eventually he's going to give up because he's like, I'm tired of her. She's wearing me out by her continual coming. I'm going to give her what she's asking for. I'm going to give her the justice she seeks. And Jesus' point is, how much greater is God than this unrighteous judge? How much more wise? How much more loving? How much more compassionate is God than this unjust judge? And so God will certainly give justice to his own children, to his elect, who come to him and cry out to him night and day. Now there's another category of people And these are people who think that God owes them. God owes them something because of how great they are and how much they've done for God. I've done God a salad, now God owes me. And that's kind of what this Pharisee is doing. He's saying, God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers. Or even like this tax collector, I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all I get. The implication being, I'm one of the good ones, Lord, you should listen to me. You should give me favor. You should justify me You should declare me righteous on the basis of what I've done. But the tax collector stands far off and would not lift his eyes to heaven, but simply says, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. So here the question is, who is justified? Who is justified before God? Who does God declare to be righteous? Who does God accept as acceptable in his sight? Not the Pharisee, not the self-righteous one, not the one who thought he was entitled because of how good he was, but the tax collector. who knew he was a sinner and who was humble before God, he went to his house justified. Outwardly the Pharisee is the much more righteous man. Outwardly there's no competition. But inwardly in the heart, which is what God looks at, God rejects pride, and God responds positively to humility. And that's seen here in these infants that are being brought to Jesus. Infants are helpless. They can't do anything for Jesus. They can't They can't make any promises to Jesus. They can't give anything to Jesus. And yet Jesus says, let them come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. I do think what Jesus is primarily teaching us here is that our attitude needs to be one of helpless dependence, helpless and trusting dependent, just like an infant, just like a toddler, just like a very small child. I do think, however, a secondary implication of what Jesus is saying here is what he's actually saying here, which is that infants and small children belong in the kingdom of God. This is, I think, part of the biblical case for baptizing the infants of believers, even at a very young age. And people say, well, they haven't done anything, they can't believe anything, they haven't given God anything, a profession of faith or anything. That's the whole point. You put God's name on them and you welcome them into the kingdom Because the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. Does that mean that they are justified, that they are saved? No. Certainly they need to have faith. They need to have that Tax collector humble faith that says, I can't, you can, I'm not, you are. Please have mercy on me. But they belong in the kingdom. They belong in the kingdom, and they can receive the kingdom as little children. And they can grow up and have the most wonderfully boring testimony to say, there was never a day in my life when I did not know Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior. He was taught to me from a young age, I believed before I even have memory, and I have always been a child of God As long as I can remember. That's the best testimony. When you can't even find in your memory the date of conversion because it was so early. And conversion is still necessary. Faith is still required. You don't get justified by baptism. You don't get justified by church membership. You don't get justified by church attendance. But we disciple our children from birth we we bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord to use Paul's language from Ephesians 6. And so they belong in the church and in the kingdom and baptism is the appropriate. sacrament that that shows that sign that they are God's children outwardly by by belonging to the family of God, even as they're being drawn inwardly by the Holy Spirit. And then we have this rich young ruler. He's one who's grown up, right? Just like these babies being brought to Jesus. Here's a rich young ruler who's grown up in the church. He's grown up being blessed by God from infancy. And so he says, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus is trying to get him to see that no human being is truly good. Now it was actually right for him to call Jesus good, because Jesus was not merely human. He was the God-man, and he was the one perfect man, the one truly good man. So it was right for him to call Jesus good. But the problem is this rich young ruler is coming to Jesus thinking that he is also good, that the rich young ruler is good, because he thinks he's kept all these commandments. So Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one's good but God alone. You know the commandments. Don't commit adultery, don't murder, don't steal, don't bear false witness, honor your father and mother. Notice that this is all second table of the law stuff Right? He doesn't talk about no other gods and no graven images and honor the Lord's name and honor the Lord's day. Surely the man would have said, I kept those two. But he's only dealing with the second table of the law. But notice he leaves out the last commandment of the second table of the law, which is you shall not covet. Because I think there's no one on earth who can say, I've never coveted Right? And so Jesus gives him five of the Ten Commandments, and on those five, he in his conscience is saying, I've kept all these for my youth. So Jesus says to him, One thing you lack, sell all that you have and distribute to the poor, and you'll have treasure in heaven and come follow me. Now the fact that he can't do it shows us two things. Shows us all the commandments that Jesus left out he hasn't kept. He is coveting. He's a covetous man because he's not willing to let go of the things and go without. He always desires to have. He wants to keep what he has. And it also shows that because he's not willing to let go of earthly riches to be called into the kingdom, He doesn't love God with all of his heart, mind, soul, and strength, which is the summary of the first table of the law. He does have other gods before God, his wealth. He does serve his wealth. And thus, although he's called a believer, he's taken the Lord's name in vain because he's not really trusting in God, he's trusting in his wealth. And he's not really working and resting unto the Lord. He's working for himself. Right? All those things are exposed. by this question. This isn't a universal question. This isn't a thing that everybody who's a Christian has to sell all they have and distribute it to the poor. It's a test for this young man because it gets to the heart of where this young man is falling short and needs to confess his sin. He needs to confess his sin and say, Lord, I'm covetous. I love my wealth. I'm going to give it up, but please save me. That's what he needs to do, but he doesn't do it. And so Jesus says how difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God, because when we have wealth. Pretty much all of us who live in America and have a middle class lifestyle and are connected on this internet thing, right? We're all pretty much wealthy. fabulously wealthy by historical standards and by world standards. And so this we need to hear this of us. When you have wealth, it's too easy to trust in your wealth. It's hard to pray for your daily bread when you have a month's supply of food in your refrigerator, freezer, and cupboards. It's hard to really really trust God when we are so seemingly self-sufficient. We have to become like the tax collector. We have to become like a little child. We have to come to God and say, I don't, you do, I can't, you can, I lack, you have. Have mercy on me, O God, a sinner And that's hard for us to do when our lives are comfortable and complacent and self-sufficient. It's hard. It's like trying to get a camel through the eye of a needle. Impossible from a human perspective. Thank the Lord. That verse 27 is here. What is impossible with man is possible with God God can show us our true poverty. God can show us our true weakness. God can show us our true neediness. And we can come to Him by His grace and say, Lord, save me, and He will answer us. But left on our own? Nope. We're just far too complacent and far too comfortable. The disciples, I think, are growing complacent and comfortable in following Jesus They've seen Jesus do great things. They think they're heading for positions of power and prestige in Jerusalem at the right hand and left hand and around the throne of Jesus. They're complacent. And so Jesus predicts his death a third time and tells them, We're going to Jerusalem. Everything that's written about the Son of Man will be accomplished. I'm going to be delivered over to the Gentiles and mocked and shamefully treated and spit upon and flogged and killed and then I'll rise again. And the fact that they were so disheartened when he died showed the truth of what's said here. This saying was hidden from them. They understood none of these things They did not grasp what he said. Otherwise, when they saw him die, they would have been rejoicing That the scripture was fulfilled, that the words of Jesus were fulfilled, they would have been eagerly waiting for that third day, but they were filled with despondency. When we are filled with despondency, when we are dejected and downcast and in despair, are we believing the Word of God? Are we hearing what God has said to us? That He's working all things out for our good, that He loves us, and that the very hairs on our head are numbered Despair comes when we doubt, disregard, deny, or just plain old forget the Word of God in the midst of our crisis That's what happened to the disciples between the death and the resurrection. Happens to us all the time too. And this is a good call for us to say Remember the Word of God. I remember the great scene in Pilgrim's Progress when when Christian and Hopeful are locked in Doubting Castle, being kept by the tyrant, giant despair. Doubting and despair go together. If you doubt the word of God, you will end up imprisoned in despair. And finally Christian says, I have a key I have a key called the key of promise, and it opens any door in Doubting Castle. The promises of God unlock any doubt. And so they're able to escape. And they're set free because they believe, they remember and believe the promises of God. Finally, here in Luke 18, we see the blind beggar near Jericho. And here's a man who understands. Here's a man who gets it. He may be physically blind. But he sees more clearly spiritually than anyone else. Here is Jesus of Nazareth. Here is Jesus son of David. Here is Jesus the Son of God. He's the only one who can touch him and heal him. He's the only one who can help him. He's the only one who can save him. And with desperation, with persistence, with the perseverance that was modeled in the parable of the persistent widow, this persistent man pushes, pursues, prays to Jesus. He says, Lord, Jesus son of Nazareth, Jesus, son of David, Lord, have mercy on me. Let me recover my sight. And Jesus says, recover your sight and your faith has made you well. And you get the understanding it's not just well with sight, but it's well with eternal life because he knew who Jesus was. And he persisted in crying out to him. So how do we approach God? We approach God as blind beggars, as persistent widows, as sinful tax collectors. As babies, infants, and children, we approach God as helpless, needy Longing, expecting, trusting. Let's pray. Father in heaven, have mercy on us We need you. We need you more than words can say. We need you more than we understand. We are so weak. We are so frail. We are so sinful. We are so empty. We are so blind. Only you can save us. Have mercy on us and keep saving us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Luke 18. Tomorrow we're back in the book of Isaiah for Isaiah 19. Join me for that if you can. Have a blessed day in the Lord.