Good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Luke chapter 6 is on tap for us today. And there's a lot of great things in store for us today as we look at Luke 6. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into His Word. Heavenly Father, you are our God and we are your people. Called by your name, set apart by your grace, called to your glory, called to your gospel. Father, be our teacher. Write your word on our hearts. We need you. It's not just another day. Every day is a gift. It's not just another chapter. Every word is a gift. So help us to receive it by faith and understand. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 6. On a Sabbath, while he was going through the grain fields, his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands. But some of the Pharisees said, Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath? And Jesus answered them, Have you not read what David did when he was hungry? He and those who were with him? how he entered the house of God and took and ate the bread of the presence, which is not lawful for any but the priest to eat, and also gave it to those with him? And he said to them, The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. On another Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching. And a man was there whose right hand was withered. And the scribes and the Pharisees watched him to see. whether he would heal on the Sabbath, so that they might have a reason to accuse him. But he knew their thoughts. And he said to the man with the withered hand, Come, stand here. And he arose and stood there, and Jesus said to them, I ask you, is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to destroy it? And after looking around at them all, he said to them, he said to him, Stretch out your hand. And he did so, and his hand was restored. But they were filled with fury and discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus. In those days he went out to the mountain to pray. And all night he continued in prayer to God. And when day came he called his disciples and chose from them twelve, whom he named apostles. Simon, whom he named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip and Bartholomew, and Matthew and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon, who is called the Zealot and Judas the son of James and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor. And he came down with them and stood on a level place. with a great crowd of his disciples and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases. And those who were troubled with unclean spirits were cured, and the crowd sought to touch him, for power came out from him, and he healed them all. And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples and said, Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you shall be satisfied. Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh. Blessed are you when people hate you and when they exclude you and revile you and spurn your name as evil on account of the Son of Man. Rejoice in that. day, and leap for joy. For behold, your reward is great in heaven. For so their fathers did to the prophets. But woe to you who are rich. For you have received your consolation. Woe to you who are full now, for you shall be hungry Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. Woe to you when all people speak well of you For so their fathers did to the false prophets. But I say to you who hear, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who abuse you. To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other one also. And from one who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either. Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods, do not demand them back. And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them. If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them? And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same? And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners to get back the same amount, but love your enemies and do good and lend, expecting nothing in return. and your reward will be great. And you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the grateful and the evil. Be merciful, even as your Father is Merciful. Judge not, and you will not be judged. Condemn not and you will not be condemned. Forgive. And you will be forgiven. Give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you. He also told them a parable. Can a man, can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into a pit? A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone, when he is fully trained, will be like his teacher. Teacher, why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your eye? How can anyone say to your brother, How can you say to your brother, brother, let me take the spectat that is in your eye when you yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite! First, take the log out of your own eye. Then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother's eye. For no good tree bears bad fruit, nor again does a bad tree bear good fruit, for each tree is known by its own fruit. For figs are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush. The good person, out of the good treasure of his heart, produces good. And the evil person, out of the evil treasure, produces evil, for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you? Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like. He's like a man building a house Who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock, and when a flood arose, the stream broke against that house and could not shake it because it had been well built. But the one who hears and does not do them is like I'm like a man who built a house on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it, immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was Great. That is Luke chapter 6. Wonderful. Another wonderful full chapter from Luke. So we're dealing with two main things here. One is how Jesus approaches the Sabbath. And the other is this teaching that he gives, which has many parallels to the Sermon on the Mount, but this one's called the Sermon on the Plain or on the Level Place. And in between those two we have the calling of the of the of the apostles So first, Jesus and the Sabbath. Many Christians misunderstand passages like this where Jesus is challenging the Pharisees. and their practice of Sabbath-keeping. They misunderstand them and they think that Jesus is overturning the Sabbath. That he's saying the Sabbath is no longer a thing. Right? And some Christians say, well, every day is alike, and it doesn't really matter. There's no special day of the week. It's it's you know that that fourth commandment no longer applies. Uh there's only really nine of the ten commandments that are still binding on believers. This is a very common thing held within evangelical uh sort of Bible believing Christian circles, but it's not what Jesus is doing here. Okay. He is He is showing how the legalistic views of the Pharisees Actually run contrary to the heart of the law, the heart of what God gives. So here the Pharisees are picking on his disciples because they're going through grain fields. on the Sabbath, and they're hungry, and so they're plucking off heads of grain, they're rubbing them together in their hands, and they're eating them. That's harvesting. That's it doing work. No, it's not. It's eating. It's a necessity, right? They're hungry. There's food there. They take some, they eat it. This is, by the way, gleaning from a field as you're walking through. It was a common accepted practice. It was allowed in God's law. Nothing illegal about it. They're not stealing. Okay, um but what they're doing here is proper because it is eating and they're hungry. And it's so this is where we get the idea that works of necessity can and should be done. on the Lord's Day. It's okay to eat. It's okay to prepare food to eat on the Lord's Day. Some people have a really scrupulous point of that and they try to get everything ready on Saturday so they don't have to do any cooking. There's nothing in the Bible that says you can't prepare Prepare food, cook, grill, whatever. Um, that is that is okay. You need to eat and it's okay to to do that. And then there's a man with a withered hand. And does Jesus have to heal him on the Sabbath day? Couldn't he say, let's wait for another time? Could, but it's always good to do good. It's always right to be merciful. And so deeds of mercy, deeds of compassion, deeds of love should be done on the Lord's Day. In fact, it may be the best day to do it, because it's the day of the Lord where we honor God, and we should honor God by doing good to those who are made in his image and setting them free from the burden they're bearing. And so doing good to others, serving, is a good thing to do on the Lord's Day. So Jesus is not overturning the Sabbath. He's not saying there is no more Sabbath. He's just saying this legalism is really selfish. Legalism is really a very selfish approach, and it's self-righteous, and it is self-boasting, and it's self-serving. Because you don't have to be bothered with helping others if you can make the excuse that it's a Sabbath day. And that's not what we should be doing. We should be looking for excuses to not serve. We should be doing what's necessary and looking for opportunities to serve on the Lord's Day. Calls the 12 Apostles. They're just named here, but notice that he does, spends all night in prayer before he picks the 12 apostles. Apostles. This is very consistent in the Gospels. Jesus was a man of prayer. He lived a life of prayer. He depended on his Father for everything. He would not do anything apart from the will of his father. So Jesus the man, the man Christ Jesus, was utterly dependent upon his heavenly Father. And then he feeds. Sorry, and then he gathers together and feeds with the word. Uh IP heals and cures and then he teaches. Right. This is uh a point of controversy among Bible scholars and people who study the Bible will say, Well this is this is this the same sermon that's recorded in Matthew uh five to seven, right? Is this the Sermon on the Mount, but just a different version of it that Luke records different words? Or is this a different sermon? I am one who believes that it is a different sermon. It's a different place, right? This is a level place. He came down and stood with them on a level place. So around the mount, Jesus went up on a mountain and sat down and taught. And the recordings of what here are different. Yes, there are things that are in common between the two, for sure. Jesus was an itinerant preacher in a society where there's no internet or television news or radio broadcasts or anything like that. And so as he went from place to place and he taught a multitude here and a multitude there and a multitude here, he obviously repeated a lot of what he said. Because it was good teaching, it was truth, it was what people needed to hear. And the people over here needed to hear it, the people over there needed to hear it, and the people over here needed to hear it. And so the people would come together and he would repeat some things, but of course he didn't just repeat things. He also said things differently at times to to teach more. So it is a different sermon, I believe, from the Sermon on the Mount, although it has much in common with it. The beatitudes here are really emphasizing the truth that God cares about the physical condition you're in as well as the state of your spirit and your heart. Matthew 5 Beatitudes, the focus is more on our spiritual condition, but here there is a clear emphasis on those who are poor and hungry. God has compassion on them. And that those who are uh self-satisfied, they're pronounced woes. And so we have blessings and woes. Now, this doesn't mean you can't take this and say every poor person is going to go to heaven and every rich person is going to end up suffering. No, that's not true. If you've been blessed with material wealth, you should be using it to share with others and to feed the hungry and to help the poor and to bless your neighbors. You absolutely should be. But what Jesus is teaching here is that God sees, God cares, God understands, God knows, and God will do what is right for people God will comfort those who weep. And those who are laughing inappropriately, those who are having a good time in the party boat of life, but ignoring God and ignoring their obligation to their neighbor and living for themselves, they're going to mourn and weep. And he says this very sobering thing, and that is, really, if you're faithful to God You're serving Jesus earnestly and sincerely. You should expect to be misunderstood, hated, mistreated. You should expect that. He says that's what their fathers did to the prophets. And if people are all speaking well of you, if everyone loves you, and everyone thinks you're great, everyone thinks you hung the moon, you should be careful because you're probably becoming a people pleaser, and that's the way that people treat you So the true prophets of God were persecuted, misunderstood, maligned, marginalized. The false prophets were praised. And celebrated and welcomed. So we need to be careful that we're not being people pleasers, but that we're living for God and for his glory and speaking the truth straight. This is a a call for us to love our enemies. In verses 27 to 35 here, this is hard. Do we take this seriously? This is one of those parts of the Bible where I'm like, Christians know this is in the Bible. We've heard it before. We've known about it for years. Are we living it? Are we doing this? Are we seriously loving our enemies? enemies and doing good to those who hate us. Are we seriously reaching out and lending to those that we don't expect to receive back from and blessing those who don't do anything but curse us? We should be. We should be. And I tell you, the more you give in to listening to the political discourse that dominates our culture, the less likely you're going to be to follow Jesus in this way. way. The more you tune that out and the more you tune into Jesus and what he's calling us to do, the more it's likely that you're going to be able to imitate God and be merciful. God is kind to everyone. God is merciful to everyone in this life. Now there is justice coming, but that's in God's hands, right? We don't judge. We shouldn't say, well, they're not a believer, and so I'm not going to do good to them because they're just a hellbound sinner. You don't know that. Like you don't know that. They might be an unbeliever now They might be hostile to the Christian faith now, but boy, history is full of people who went from being hostile persecutors of Christianity to being children of God because They heard the gospel, they saw Christianity in action, their hearts were changed. So it's not our place to judge and say, well, I'm not going to be nice to that guy. He's not a Christian. Christian and he kind of is rude toward Christians. God tells you to love your enemies. God tells you to bless those who persecute you. God tells you to pray for those. And you don't know, but God might use your prayers and your kindness as means of bringing them to himself. Instead, we are to forgive and we are to give. We are to forgive and we are to give generously, freely to all, without asking questions about how much they deserve it. Or even whether we're going to get it back. It is better for Christians to be in a position where we are occasionally taken advantage of by dishonest people, than to be in a position where we never give because we never want to be taken advantage of. It's just that the reality of living in a fallen world is that, right? You're either going to be a generous person who gives as often as you can. And sometimes people are going to take advantage of that and you'll be used by a con man. That'll happen. Or you can say, I'm never giving to anybody, I'm going to keep it for myself, I'm going to be super careful with it, and I'll never get used. I'll never get wronged. But that's wrong, isn't it? Doesn't that go exactly against what Jesus says here? Yes, it does And even we're dealing with our brothers and sisters in Christ, and we might think, oh man, they're really kind of slow in their growth, and they're really kind of worldly in their attitude, and I don't know. We need to be careful about that Because it's so much easier to see flaws in others than it is in ourselves. It's so much easier to see, oh, that person is this, that, or the other thing, and to miss what we are. So we need to be more humble and more repentant and more gracious. And it's interesting to me that it's in this context that Jesus talks about a good tree. Bearing good fruit, and a bad tree bearing bad fruit. If someone's heart is constantly bringing forward cynicism, judgmentalism, self-righteousness. Stinginess, gossip, slander. That's not the gospel. That's not the love of Jesus. The gospel would produce a blessing, thinking well of others, seeking to do good to others, encouraging others, believing others. We need to let this hit us. And we need to deal with this with God in prayer if we see that that's not really how we live our lives or how we speak. Because in the end, are we building our house on the rock by doing what Jesus says to do? Or are we hearing the words of Jesus, but then living selfishly like the world, in which case we're building our house on sand? It really does matter. I know that if you've been a Christian for a long time, this is not the first, second, third, fourth, or fifth time you've heard some of these things. Maybe you're a new believer, and this is the first time you're hearing them. Maybe you're not a Christian at all. I don't know who's watching this all the time. But this is the way we should be living. And to the extent that the world looks at the church and says, no, that is not how Christians act. Christians act self-righteous, judgmental, gossipy, slanderous, poison-tongued, backbiting. To the extent that that is what the world sees in the church, we desperately need to repent and go back to God and say, Are we really living more like the Pharisees in their legalistic self-righteousness and their selfishness? Or are we living like Jesus? Healing, blessing, giving, loving, forgiving. We have been so loved. We must love others. Let's pray. Father, give us the grace to love even as we have been loved by you. You're not asking us to give others anything different from what you've already given us, which is grace. Good things that we don't deserve. Forgiveness. and life and blessing. Help us to be generous, kind, compassionate, patient, loving Help us be more like Jesus. We ask this in his name. Amen. Well, that's Luke chapter 6. Thanks for joining me today. Back to Nehemiah tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.