Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 658, Luke chapter 9. is on tap and I've got a nice delicious cup of coffee. As we're ready to dig into the gospel of Luke once again, let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, you are so good. You're good in all of your ways. You're good all the time. Father, teach us through your word and draw our hearts closer to Christ, we pray. In his name. Amen. Alright, Luke chapter 9. And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases, and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God. and to heal. And he said to them, Take nothing for your journey, no staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money, and do not have two tunics. And whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart. And whenever they do not receive you, when you leave that town. Shake off the dust from your feet as a testimony against them. And they departed and went through the villages, preaching the gospel and healing everywhere. Now Herod the Tetrarch heard about all that was happening. And he was perplexed, because it was said by some that John had been raised from the dead, by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the prophets of old had risen Herod said, John I beheaded, but who is this about whom I hear such things? And he sought to see him. On their return, the apostles told him all they had done, and he took them and withdrew apart to a town called Bethseda. When the crowds learned it, they followed him, and he welcomed them, and spoke to them of the kingdom of God, and cured those who had need of healing. Now the day began to wear away, and the twelve came and said to him, Send the crowd away. Into the surrounding villages and countryside to find lodging and get provisions, for we are here in a desolate place. But he said to them, You give them something to They said, We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we are to go and buy food for all these people, for there were about five thousand men And he said to his disciples, have them sit down in groups of about fifty each. And they did so, and had them all sit down And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing over them. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd And they all ate and were satisfied, and what was left over was picked up twelve baskets of broken pieces. Now it happened that as he was praying alone, the disciples were with him. And he asked them, Who do the crowds say that I am? And they answered, John the Baptist, but others say Elijah, others that one of the prophets of old has risen. Then he said to them, But who do you say that I am? And Peter answered, The Christ of God. And he strictly charged and commanded them to tell this to no one, saying, the Son of Man must suffer many things. and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. Then he said to all, If any one would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself? For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him, will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes comes in his glory and the glory of his father and of the holy angels. But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God. Now about eight days after these things, he took with him Peter and John and James and went up on the mountain to pray And as he was praying, the appearance of his face was altered, and his clothing became dazzling white. And behold, two men were talking with Moses and Elijah, who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. Now Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep, but when they became fully awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him And as the men were parting from him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good that we are here. Let us make three tents, one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah, not knowing what he said And as he was saying these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud, and a voice came out of the cloud saying This is my beloved son, my chosen one. Listen to him. And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent, and told no one in those days anything of what they had seen. On the next day When they had come down from the mountain, a great crowd met him. And behold, a man from the crowd cried out, Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only child And behold, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly cries out. It convulses him, so that he foams at the mouth and shatters him, and it will hardly leave him alone. And I begged your disciples to cast it out, but they could not. Jesus answered, O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here. While he was coming, the demon threw him to the ground and convulsed him, but Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the boy and gave him back to his father, and all were astonished at the Majesty of God. But while they were all marveling at everything he was doing, Jesus said to his disciples, let these words sink into your ears. The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men. But they did not understand what he was saying. And it was concealed from them, so that they might not perceive it. And they were afraid to ask him about This saying. An argument arose among them as to which of them was the greatest. But Jesus, knowing the reasoning of their hearts, took a Child, and put him by his side, and said to them, Whoever receives this child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who receives Jesus answered, Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him because he does not follow with us But Jesus said to him, Do not stop him, for the one who is not against you is for you. When the when the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face to go to Jerusalem. And he sent messengers ahead of him, who went and entered a village of the Samaritans to make preparations for him. But the people did not receive him because his face was set toward Jerusalem. And when his disciples, James and John, saw it, they said, Lord, do you want us to tell fire to come down from heaven and consume them? But he turned and rebuked them. And they went to another village. As they were going along the road, someone said to him, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. To another he said, Follow me, but he said, Lord, let me first go and bury my own father. And Jesus said to him, Leave the dead to bury their own The plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. That is Luke chapter nine. Jesus, throughout the Gospel of Luke is surprising people, confronting people, reordering people's expectations, and just turning things upside down. Because he comes into the world as he comes into each one of our lives as the ultimate disruptor. And we need to be prepared to follow him. That's really, I mean Really, what I think the biggest lesson you take away from Luke chapter nine is Jesus is not what we expect. He's not doing what we expect. He's not leading where we expect. But we need to trust him and follow him because he is great. And he is greater than our expectations. He shatters our expectations because he cannot be contained by them, because he is so much better than them. We need to trust him. So the first thing we see him do in this chapter is he calls the other twelve and he gives them power and authority over demons and diseases and sends them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal. That's great. I mean, they're going to be able to do some of the things that they've seen Jesus doing. They're going to have this power. But then he says, don't take anything. Take nothing. Not a staff, not a bag, not bread, not money. Don't even take a change of clothes. Wow. That's Faith. You're gonna have to go out on faith because Jesus has personally sent you. Now some people have abused this passage and have said if you're gonna go serve the Lord on the mission field, just go out by faith. Just go. Don't take anything with you, don't ask anything I'm going to support you. Don't bother taking time to raise support. Just go. That's not faith, that's presumption. Here Jesus had sent them out with these instructions for them personally. And so they were obeying what Jesus had personally told them to do. Whatever house you enter, stay there from their depart. Whatever they do not receive you when they when you leave that town. Shake off the dust from your feet as a testimony against them. It's true that those who reject the gospel and those who proclaim the gospel are rejecting God. And there is a testimony against them because they've heard the truth and they've rejected The truth. Herod hears about Jesus and is perplexed by him, doesn't know who he is, doesn't know what's going on. Some people said John's raised from the dead, some people said Elijah is here. Jesus said, Well, I know I beheaded John, but I don't know who this man is. And he's interested. He's interested in seeing him and in meeting him. He's going to have that opportunity. So on the return, the apostles tell them, apostles mean sent ones, the ones who have been sent out by God. They're sometimes called the Twelve or the Disciples. So it's all used interchangeably. The twelve refers of course to their number, which is symbolically significant because it's the same as the number of the tribes of Israel. Disciples reflects the fact that they're followers of Jesus. Apostles is designating the fact that they're personal Sent out by Jesus with his authority. What does he do when they come back? He takes them apart, takes them Aside, so that he can teach them. But no sooner do they find a place to go to the side to be taught that the crowd learns of it and follows him. Does he shoo the crowd because he wants to have this time with his disciples? Does he say, I can't be bothered right now? No, he welcomes them and speaks to them of the kingdom of God and cures those who have need of healing. See, Jesus is never doing what we expect Toward the end of the day, this great crowd of people that come around, they're hungry. They've been there all day. They walked a long way to get there to find him. They've been there all day. What are they going to do? The disciples say the reasonable thing, right? The expected thing. Send them away so they can go in the surrounding villages and find lodging and provisions. We're out here in the middle of nowhere, Jesus. There's thousands of people here, but Jesus says, You feed them. We don't have that kind of food. We got five loaves and two fish. We supposed to go buy food for all these people? Jesus says, Have them sit down in groups of fifty. And he feeds them. And there's enough from those five loaves and two fish, there's enough to feed everyone in the crowd, thousands and thousands of people And twelve baskets of broken pieces. We're left over. Jesus can always meet our needs. We don't need to panic. We don't need to be anxious and think, how is this possibly going to happen? If Jesus has called, Jesus will provide, if Jesus sends, Jesus accompanies him. If Jesus is building, Jesus is going to provide what is needed. That is the truth. Peter confesses his faith in Jesus Christ. And Jesus immediately tells him, go out and tell everybody. Nope. Don't tell anyone. So again, he's not meeting expectations. He's trying to draw out, have you guys figured out yet who I am? Have you figured it out? What's everybody else saying? What do you know? And they get it. They know who he is. He's the Christ of God. He's the Christ, the Son of the Living God. But he says, Don't tell anyone. And guess what? I'm going to suffer and be rejected and be killed and the third day I'm gonna rise. And they don't get it, they don't understand, and yet they Later are going to argue over who's the greatest. So here he foretells his death in verses 21 and 22. And later in the same chapter. Right. He foretells his death again in chap in verses forty-three to forty-five. And here we're explicitly told they did not understand it. It was concealed from them, so that they might not Perceive it and they were afraid to ask him, but what they weren't afraid to do was to argue over who is the greatest. Twice now Jesus has told them he's going to die. He's gonna be betrayed, handed over, and die. And they respond to the second one by arguing over who is the greatest. And if that ain't bad enough, if that ain't bad enough, good English there huh? In between the two predictions, three of them are taken up on a mountain to see how great Jesus is But we still see them not focused on the greatness of Jesus, but focus on the greatness of themselves. Even when they're on the mountain, even when they're seeing how great Jesus is, they don't get it. They want to make three tents, one for Jesus. One for Moses, one for Elijah. They don't get it. And so Jesus, the Father this time, speaks up and silences them. This is my son, my chosen one. Listen to him. And that is perhaps the overarching message of this chapter. Stop trying to predict Jesus. Stop trying to lay your expectations on Jesus and get him to confirm. To your desires. Stop trying to think you can control Jesus. Stop trying to use Jesus to get what you want. Right? Listen to Jesus. Follow Jesus. Trust Jesus. And when you do, he will set you free. And he will put you to work in his kingdom. And he will use you to do great things. But you have to be willing. To say my expectations, my agenda, my predictions, my desires, I'm going to lay those down. I'm going to let those die. I'm going to listen to Jesus, trust Jesus, follow Jesus, and from him receive eternal life. And that's what the end of this chapter is really all about. Three different people called to follow Jesus Listen to Jesus, follow Jesus. They have excuses. First one says, I'll follow you ever you go. Doesn't sound like he has any excuses, but he wants to know where are you going? Where am I going to be staying? Like what are the accommodations? Are we talking about Hampton Inn? Are we talking about Motel 6? Are we talking about the the Ritz-Carlton? What's it going to be? And Jesus says I'm a homeless man. I have no place to lay my head. I sleep outside a lot of the times. I'm a guest in other people's homes. Don't think that by following me you're going to get rich And presumably the guy loses interest. The next guy says, Let me first go and bury my father. And you might think, what's wrong with that? That seems very reasonable. We don't even know that the father is sick or has died. He probably just wants more time. I need more time. Jesus says, come on. This is the kingdom of God. Go and proclaim it. Put that first. Seek first the kingdom of God, as he says in Matthew 6 33. And then the third guy, I'll follow you. First let me say farewell to those at home. It doesn't mean just a quick goodbye. means I want to have a long drawn out party of celebration. One wants a place to stay, one wants to be able to keep those family connections. One wants a good time with his friends. And Jesus says none of this is as in important as the kingdom of God. Follow me. Are we going to answer that call? Are we going to listen? Are we going to follow? Let's pray. Oh Father, we need to hear Jesus calling us. We need to hear you telling us. Listen to your And your son's saying to us, Follow me. We need to lay aside our expectations and our agendas, our creature comforts, our desire to fit in with the world, our desire to have a nice, happy, safe, predictable life. And we need to follow you. Lead on, O King Eternal. Lead us. And give us the grace to follow you step by step. We pray this in Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. Well that's Luke chapter nine, another rich and full chapter from Dr. Luke. I hope you enjoyed it, appreciated it, benefited from it. I don't know that it's enjoyable, it's real challenging, though. And I hope that that challenge uh has touched your heart as it has my own. And tomorrow, back to the book of Esther. Have a blessed day in the Lord.