Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you on our 683rd day through the Word of God. We're making a three-year journey through God's Word, and we come today to one of the most famous chapters. in all of Scripture, and one of the most famous stories in all of Scripture, and that is Luke 15. This is the chapter of the lost. The lost chapter. So it shows us God's heart for the lost, as we see a lost sheep, a lost coin, and then most famously a lost son. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the privilege that it is to study your word every day together. We pray that you would be our teacher and our guide. That you would lead us into all truth. For your glory we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Luke chapter 15. Now, the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to him. And the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So he told them this parable. What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country and go after the one that is lost until he finds it? And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me! For I have found my sheep that was lost. Just so I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently until she finds it? And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I lost. that I had lost. Just so I tell you there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents. And he said, There was a man who had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me. and he divided his property between them. Not many days later the younger son gathered all he had and took a journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in reckless living. And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need. So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate. And no one gave him anything. But when he came to himself, he said, How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread? But I perish here with hunger I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before you I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants. And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion and ran and embraced him and kissed him And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before you I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his servants, Bring quickly the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet, and bring the fattened calf and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate. For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. And they began to celebrate. Now the older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house he heard music and dancing, and he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound. But he was angry and refused to go. His father came out and entreated him, but he answered his father, Look, these many years I have served you And I never disobeyed your command, yet you never gave me a young goat that I might celebrate with my friends. But when this Son of yours, Cain, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him. And he said to him, Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours. It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this your brother was dead and is alive. He was lost, and is found Here in Luke 15, which is very close to the very heart of this gospel, what we see is that Jesus And the Father and the Spirit, God, our triune, God has a heart for the lost. For those who are far away from God, for those who are living in sin, for those who are stuck and mired in unbelief and in unrighteousness, God has a heart for them And Jesus came, and when he came, it wasn't the respectably righteous religious people who were confident in their own righteousness and confident in their own salvation. who came to Jesus. They didn't come to Jesus. They didn't see a need for him. But the tax collectors and the sinners were all drawing near to him. Tax collectors and sinners drawing near, Pharisees and scribes grumbling, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So this is the context, verses 1 and 2, very important context for setting up all of these parables. And the parables grow. They grow, and then the end of the last parable, the most famous one, the short story really of the prodigal son, this one drives home the point. of what Jesus is saying. Remember that Jesus' audience is twofold. He is talking to the tax collectors and sinners who are drawing near to him. But he's also talking to the Pharisees and the scribes who are grumbling against him. So, he turns to the Pharisees and the scribes and says, What man of you? Having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country and go after the one that is lost until he finds it. This is a practical illustration drawn from everyday life that would bring conviction to their hearts Because they know the answer to that, which is any good shepherd, any wise manager of his things goes after that which is lost, which belongs to him, and which has wandered off. And so Jesus is saying the same thing. There are there are lost people who belong to God, who have wandered off, and have been caught in sin and who have been Taken captive by the devil to do his will. And God goes after them. God seeks them. God saves them. God brings them. And when this shepherd comes home, he says to his neighbors and friends, rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that is lost. Just so I tell you, there'll be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents. But over 99 righteous persons who need no repentance. We shouldn't see that there actually are righteous people who need no repentance, because there's no unrighteous, not even one. Romans 3 tells us the Bible is very clear that we're all sinners But there are people who think they are righteous and who think they don't need any repentance. Similar to what Jesus said when he said, I have not come for the well, but for those who are sick. It's not that there are people who are actually well and don't need a savior, but there are people who think they are well and don't think they need a savior. Same thing here. The Pharisees and the scribes were grumbling. They were refusing to rejoice because they didn't really love God, or they would have rejoiced over God recovering. that which was lost of his. And they were so convinced that they were righteous that they were in fact very wrong In God's kingdom, the more convinced you are of your own righteousness, the more wrong you are. Ten silver coins, woman loses a coin. She lights a lamp, she sweeps the house, she searches diligently until she finds it. It's interesting here because Jesus is telling a parable where a woman is the main character. So this is one of several places where Jesus shows that his kingdom and his salvation is concerning, is for both men and women. You know, it was kind of radical because, you know, there were some Pharisees in Jesus' day who taught that women didn't even have souls. After all, women couldn't be circumcised, so they couldn't receive the sign of the covenant. Women couldn't have as close access in at the temple as the men could. In synagogues, even to this day, in Orthodox Jewish synagogues, the women don't get as close an access as the men, but here Jesus is telling a parable about a man who loses a sheep, and then a parable about a woman who loses a coin, to show that both men and women are in the kingdom. The kingdom is for both men and women, and there's joy. And then he tells this very complex, and it's called the Parable of the Prodigal Son, but I think it's actually more like a short story. Now this gets into some technicalities of literature. What's the difference between a parable and a short story? A parable is typically a short saying or a short, very short story, very short story. That has one central point, one point of contact, one clear and obvious meaning. Lost sheep, lost coin fit that pattern. A short story, as we understand it. is more developed, has characters who are more well-rounded, that you can understand the their their personalities. Like we don't know anything about the person who lost the sheep or the woman who lost her coin or the fact that they lost and then they rejoiced But here we get to see these this family, the father, the older brother, the younger brother. We get to know them. The father loves his voice. He's willing to grant his younger son's request, even though his younger son's request is selfish and quite rude. He's really saying to his father, I wish you were dead. I know I have to wait until you die to get what's coming to me, so go ahead and give me what's coming to me and let me get out of here. In other words, I wish you were dead. And the father still gives it to him. The father still lets him go. The father still still gives him what he asked for. It's also a little bit of an indication that sometimes when our hearts are hard against God, we need to be careful what we ask for, because sometimes God will give us what we ask for. And what we asked for will in fact lead us far from our father's house. And that's what happened to this prodigal son. So the prodigal son goes and he's foolish and he's selfish and he runs out of all of his money. And he hires himself out to a citizen of the country to feed pigs. Now for a Jewish male, there's nothing more disgusting than being given a job to feed pigs, the most unclean of the animals. that symbol of uncleanness. And he's feeding them and he's so hungry that he wants to be fed with the pods that the pigs are eating. He wants to eat pig sloth with the pigs. That's how low he has sunk. But no one gave him anything. Apparently the pig farmer wasn't even paying him enough money for him to be able to feed himself. And so he comes to himself. How does he come to himself, verse 17? Well, obviously, that is the grace of God. That is the work of the Holy Spirit, that mysterious work that opens the eyes of blind, that brings dead to life. And that Holy Spirit brings him to himself, and he says, How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread? And here I am dying of hunger, longing for pig slaw. I'll just go home to my father and I'll say, I've sinned. I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. I just want to be a servant. Can you just treat me as a hired servant? Just make me one of your hirelings. But the father won't hear this. The father doesn't even let him finish his speech because the father sees him a long way off and runs to him and has compassion on him and embraces him and kisses him. And he starts his speech, Father, I've sinned against heaven, and before you I am no longer worthy to be called your son. And the Father just cuts him off and says, No. Bring The robe. The best robe. Put it on him. Bring a ring. Put it on his hand. Shoes for his feet. Fattened calf. The best of everything. The best robe. The ring. The shoes. The best calf And let's eat and celebrate for this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. Now, if the older brother had been a good older brother, If the older brother had actually loved the father and had cared about what the father cared about, first of all, the older brother would have been out seeking the younger brother and seeking to bring him back home He would have been longing for the younger brother's return even more than the father if he loved the father. But he didn't And in fact, he resents his younger brother coming home. In fact, he doesn't even refer to him as his brother. He just says to his father in verse 30, when this son of yours came. who devoured your property with prostitutes you killed the fattened calf for him. The older brother's like separating himself, separating himself from the decisions of his father, separating himself from the decisions of his younger brother, and saying I have never done any of these things, but this son of yours, you have given him. He's arrogant, he's self-righteous. He's standoffish, and so he misses the joy of the celebration. It is sad to me. That there are many Christians who have this story in their Bibles and who still act this way. They still look at people who have big problems, drug addicts, prostitutes People who are drunkards, people who are homeless, people who are down, you know, destitute, people who've lost everything, people who are foolish, people who have wasted everything. And they have a hard-hearted attitude that basically says, well, that's on you. You did that to yourself, you're gonna have to figure it out. Because I I made good decisions. I did the right thing. I work hard for my money. Why should I help you And it's exactly the attitude of the older brother. It's exactly what God tells us not to think like. We are to be compassionate. We are to have a heart for the lost. We are to reach out for those. Reach out to those who are down if we love the Father. If we care about Him. We will reach out to those He cares about. And again, the heart of Luke 15 is that God has a heart for the lost. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the lesson of Luke 15. Help us to have a heart for the lost because you have a heart for the lost. Forgive us for times when we are self-righteous in judgment. Such a wrong attitude for any believer in Jesus to have. Forgive us and cleanse our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Luke 15. Thanks for joining me for that today. Tomorrow, back to the book of Isaiah. Have a blessed day in the Lord.