Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forestville Presbyterian Church. It's our 680th day together in the Word of God. God and we are in Luke chapter 14. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, as we gather together again as your people, and as we take a look again at your word, we need you. We pray that you would come and be our teacher and our guide, that you would lead us into all truth and write that truth on our hearts as only you can, by the power of your Holy Spirit, and to the glory of your name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Okay, Luke chapter 14. One Sabbath, when he went to dine at the house of a ruler of the Pharisees, they were watching him carefully. And behold, there was a man who had dropsy. And Jesus responded to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not? But they remained silent. Then he took him and healed him, and sent him away. And he said to them, Which of you having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day, will not immediately pull him out. And they could not reply to these things Now, he told a parable to those who were invited, when he noticed how they chose the places of honor, saying to them When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not sit down in a place of honor, lest someone more distinguished than you you be invited by him, and he who invited you both will come and say to you, Give your place to this person and then you will begin with shame to take the lowest place. But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that when your host comes he may say to you, Friend, move up higher. Then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at the table with you. He said also to the man who had invited him, When you give a dinner or a banquet, Do not invite your friends, or your brothers, or your relatives, or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return, and you be repaid. and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just When one of those who reclined at table with him heard these things, he said, Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God. But he said to him, A man once gave a great banquet and invited many, and at the time for the banquet he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, Come! for everything is now ready. But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, I have bought a field, and I must go out and see it. Please have me excused. And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Please have me excused. And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became angry. And the servant said, Sir, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room. my house may be filled, for I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet. Now great clout great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them, If any one comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children And brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. my disciple. For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete. Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him And if not, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for turn So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. That is Luke chapter 14, another wonderful chapter in Luke's gospel beginning as Dr. Luke with the healing of a man who had dropsy. Dropsy is how it's translated traditionally in English, but the Greek word is hydropikos, hydro, like water, probably having a deep Which means the fluid gathered in various parts of his body causing a painful swelling that can be very disabling. That's probably the condition he had as the original Greek referred. Flex it and he comes into this Pharisees house. Jesus comes into this Pharisees house, a ruler of the Pharisees, and they're watching him. Because they know there's a man who has this medical condition, and Jesus looks around and says, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? or not. Now, Sabbath keeping, the fourth commandment, has been a point of controversy. And a point of division among God's people for thousands of years. I mean, going back before the time of Jesus. One of the major reasons why God's people were sent into exile in the Babylonian exiles because they neglected to keep the Sabbath, uh the Sabbath day of the week, and also the Sabbath years to leave their fields fallow. And so that was part of the reason why they were judged by God. And then upon the restoration, one of the reforms that Nehemiah had to see to was to make sure that peop people were not selling on the Sabbath day outside the gates of Jerusalem. So the Sabbath day has been a big issue. And reacting against the loose abuse of the Sabbath The Pharisees came up with very strict rules for the Sabbath, but the thing about it is they really neglected the spirit of the law to get obsessed about the letter of their legalistic interpretation. And additions to the law. It wasn't that they were really trying to honor the Sabbath day, which is a day given by God as a blessing for his people to re Rest, they wanted a Sabbath where they could trumpet their own self-righteousness and make themselves look good. That's why immediately following this healing On the Sabbath, he looks around at those who were invited and talks to them about, you know, not jockeying for position to make yourself look good because that's kind of But Jesus says that you missed the whole point of the Sabbath. And then so he tells this this parable of about these people jockeying for position. Again, this is a ruler of the Pharisees, and Jesus has probably watched them them like angling for who's going to get the best seat, closest to the host, closest to Jesus, the honored guest. And Jesus says, no, no, no, no. Don't don't jockey for position like that take the lowest place and your host will say friend move up higher now the point is not primarily about seating positions at banquets you're invited to to in this world, the main point is found in verse 11. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Went to a church recently, just sort of drove through the parking lot, um, and the door the parking space closest to the main entrance And I immediately kind of shook my head like I mean it was closer than the handicap spots. what I'm talking about, okay? The closest spot to the door said reserved for pasture. And I just I just shook my head. I thought that is totally contrary to the gospel, totally contrary to what Jesus taught. If there's a reserved spot for the pastor of the church, it should be the farthest one away from the door. I mean that's ridiculous. Well I was at another church years ago, a Presbyterian church, and there were a row of parking spaces right next to the sidewalk, right next to the entrance. And it said reserve for deacons. Deacons are to be servants. Since what is a servant put himself first? So these are the ways that we can physically exalt ourselves, but we can all do it with our attitude And then as he's on the theme of a banquet again, he's at this dinner at this rich man's house. house for this ruler of the Pharisees who probably was a rich man because if you were a ruler of the Pharisees, you probably were a person with money, especially if you're having a big dinner at your house. He says to this man, When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and you be repent. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just That is a Do we do that? I mean, this is in the Bible. This is Jesus talking in the Bible saying, if you're going to put on a dinner, you need to invite the poor. Those who cannot repay you. Now sometimes at Thanksgiving time or Christmas time churches will put on dinners for the poor. But are we doing this regularly? Are we practicing hospitality to the least in our community. How are we serving the poor? We do have an opportunity. We're blessed to be part of a ministry of Food night, where about six times a year we're able to go and to serve those who are, you know, in need and who can't repay us. And that's good, but we should be looking for more opportunities. So someone there who's at the table with Jesus again, all this is taking place in this banquet at the Pharisees' house says, Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God. He's probably trying to sound really religious. I'm going to impress this famous rabbi by saying, Oh, the real blessing is who he will eat bread in the kingdom of God. And Jesus tells this very convicting parable. And the point of this, the man who gave a great banquet and invited many is God sending his son Jesus into the world. And the members of the Sanhedrin, those who have the Scriptures, who've read the Scriptures, who know the Scriptures, as Jesus would say in the uh Gospel of John, you search the Scriptures because you think that In them you have eternal life, but they are these are they which testify about me, and yet you will not come to me. So this is the whole point of this parable is to say The religious leaders in Jesus' day are those who were invited to the banquet of the kingdom of God. But when the king showed up, they made it Every excuse as to why they couldn't do it, and what were their excuses? Materialism, worldliness, misplaced priorities. Well, I can't follow Jesus because And so who did come to Jesus among the Jews? Jewish people the poor, the lame, the blind, the leprous, the demon possessed. They came to him because they knew that he could heal heal them. And they weren't worried about guarding their material possessions or their place in society or their respectability. They came to Jesus broken. and needy. But still there's more room in the banquet, and so to the highways and the hedges, go out to all the earth, go out to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. and invite them in that God's house may be filled. That's what we're doing right now. Right now, verse 23 is for us today. Go out, tell people, compel them, come to Jesus and find eternal life. Now, if you come to Jesus, what does it take to come to Jesus and taste of his banquet? The call is open to everyone. We're to go out and compel them, but what does it mean to come to Jesus? Well, if you come to Jesus You have to choose Jesus over your family, your place in society, your comfort. Because if you don't bear your own cross and come after Jesus. You can't be his disciple. You have to count the cost. And Jesus gives us the cost in verse 33, and it's another one of these, do we really believe this verse in the Bible? Put this down, Luke 14, 33, and ask yourself, do I really believe this? So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. What? Did Jesus really say that? We have to renounce everything we have? Yes, in that we have to surrender it all to Him. If we come to Jesus as Lord, He's Lord of all, He's Lord of everything we have, our schedule, our bank account, our relationships, our entertainment attainment, our priorities, our values. What if he's not? What if we've come to him and he's not Lord of all? Well then we get to the very last thing in the chapter. And that is, if we've come to Jesus and He is not Lord of our lives, if we've not surrendered everything to Him, then we're the salt of the earth, but salt that's lost its taste. And in the ancient world there were degrees of salty salt because pure salt, like what we would buy today, which is pretty much pure salt, was very expensive. Very expensive in the ancient world. So usually you had salt. Sort of think about the rock salt, right? The like the Himalayan sea salt or whatever, the salt stuff you gotta put in a grinder, that rocky salt. salt and it would be mixed with other rocks so that when you ground it and you spread it it wouldn't be pure salt salt. So in other words, there were degrees of saltiness even within salt. Some of the stuff that was sold in the marketplace for cheap was hardly any salt at all. You were mostly just putting dirt on stuff. Does that have any use? No. So here's the test for us. This is where the conviction needs to come home The test for us is: have we renounced all that we have as no longer belonging to us, but belonging to King Jesus, our bank account? Our time, our priorities, our relationships, our social media, our entertainments. Have we surrendered everything and said it's yours, Lord? no longer mine. If we have, to the degree that we've surrendered it to Christ, we are salty salt. And we can have a positive influence in the world But to the degree that we have said, no, you can't have that, and no, you can't have that, and no, you can't have that, we've lost that saltiness because we're not distinct from the world. We're being selfish like And ultimately if we're if we're just as selfish as everybody else, then what good are we as disciples? What good are we as influence in the world? We're not, we're just like everybody else. Living for ourselves, but talking about Jesus. And that's No disciple at all, that is a hypocrite. Ouch. So Jesus has invited us to the banquet. We've been invited to be blessed, to break bread in the kingdom of God, to feast upon the bread of life, the Son of God Himself. It's an open invitation. Everybody can come. But if we come we must surrender. And as we surrender all, we are the salt of the earth, and we can have an influence on the world that is profound because it comes not from us. But from Jesus. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you for the invitation to come and to sit and to eat. At the banqueting table in the kingdom of God. Help us to be salty salt, surrendered to Jesus with all that we have. We ask this in his name Amen. Well, thank you for joining me for Luke 14. Tomorrow we are going to go back to the book of Isaiah. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.