Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 673 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we've come today. to Luke chapter 13. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are our God, our Father, our teacher, our King, the source of all love and wisdom and life. Please be with us as we spend time in your Word. Please teach us by your Holy Spirit. Please prepare our hearts to receive, our minds to understand, our lives to respond in faith. Faith to your word. We need you. We are here to hear from you. So we pray that you would speak in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Luke chapter 13 There were some present at that very time who told him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And he answered them, Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans because they suffered in this way? No, I tell you, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them Do you think that they were worse offenders than all the others who had lived in Jerusalem? No, I tell you, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish And he told them this parable. A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it and found none. And he said to the vine dresser, Look, for three years now I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it down. Why should it use up the ground? And he answered him, Sir, let it alone this year also until I dig around it and put on manure. Then, if it should bear fruit next year, well and good. But if not, you can cut it down. Now he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, and behold, there was a woman who had had a disabling spirit for 18 years. She was bent over and could not fully straighten herself. When Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, Woman, you are freed from your disability. And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and she glorified God. But the ruler of the synagogue Indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the people, There are six days in which work ought to be done. Come on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day Then the Lord answered him, You hypocrites, does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the manger, and lead it away to water it? And ought not this woman A daughter of Abraham, whom Satan bound for 18 years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day? As he said these things, all his adversaries were put to shame, and all the people rejoiced at all the glorious things that were done by him. He said to them, What is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it? It is like a grain of mustard. seed that a man took and sowed in his garden, and it grew, it became a tree, and the birds of the air made nests in its branches. And again he said, To what shall I compare the kingdom of God? It is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour until it was all leavened. He went on his way through towns and villages, teaching and journeying toward Jerusalem, and someone said to him, Lord, will those who are saved be few? And he said to them, Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able When once the master of the house has risen and shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and knock at the door, saying, Lord, open to us, then he will answer you. I do not know where you come from Then you will begin to say, We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets. But he will say, say, I tell you, I do not know where you come from. Depart from me, all you workers of evil. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. When you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you yourselves cast out. And people will come from east and west and from north and south, and recline at table in the kingdom of God, and behold some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last. At that very hour some Pharisees came and said to him, Get away from here, for Herod wants to kill you. And he said to them, Go and tell that fox, behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow and the third day I finish my course. Nevertheless I must go on my way to day and to morrow, and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet should perish away from Jerusalem O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it, how often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under his wings And you were not willing. Behold, your house is forsaken. And I tell you, you will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of name of the Lord. That is Luke chapter 13 in the English Standard Version. Jesus is challenging us, continuing to speak sharp, penetrating words. The Word of God, Hebrews 4. 12, tells us is sharper than any two-edged sword. And it divides, penetrating even soul and spirit, bone and marrow, laying open the thoughts of all before the eyes of him with whom we all have to do. This is Jesus, the incarnate Word of God, speaking forth the Word of God in cutting, penetrating, piercing, dividing ways. And we need to hear these words because He's really speaking straight to us about whether or not we're really following him, whether or not we really belong to God, whether or not we really get it, or whether we're just making a show. So the first thing that happens is some people come to him and they want to know about these people that they've heard these horrible things about, there were Galileans. And and Pontius Pilate took their blood and and and mingled it with their sacrifices, making it an abomination. There were people in Siloam, 18 people, whose tower, fortified tower for defense, fell on them and killed them. And they wanted to know, what about these people? And perhaps we are so conditioned by our modern American culture as to expect an answer that would be something like Oh no, those people, they they, you know, they're fine. God loves them. These are just tragic things that happen. And don't worry about it. You know, it's just unpredictable, whatever. And maybe these people were looking for a different answer. Maybe these people were saying, oh, we're expecting Jesus to say, oh yes, these people, these Galileans and those in Siloam. They are the terrible sinners. When you see something bad happen to someone, then you know that those are the terrible sinners. Jesus doesn't do either one of those things. He doesn't say, Don't worry about it, everybody's good, God loves everybody, these tragic things just happen. And he doesn't say, oh yeah, they're terrible sinners because these terrible things happen. He says something that penetrates the hearts of those who dare to ask these questions, and that is They were no worse sinners than you are. They were sinners and they were bad, but they were no worse sinners than you are. And unless you repent, you will likewise perish. She says it twice about both of these situations. Unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. All likewise perish. That's not a politically correct softball easy word, but it's a call to life because if we're going to come to Jesus for salvation, we have to So he's challenging them that they might come to him He then challenges the Jewish leadership and the Jewish religious establishment for being fruitless. That's what he's saying here is there's a man who had a fig tree and planted it and sought fruit and it didn't find any for three years. It's probable that Jesus ministered for three years, and that may be hinted at here. Coming sort of close to the end of his ministry, and he says, for three years now. So the in the parable it's like him saying, I've come to Jerusalem for three years now, doing my ministry. And I'm looking for fruit and I'm not finding any. I'm going around to the synagogues, I'm going around to the places of worship for three years now, looking for fruit, and I'm not finding any. And a little bit longer. A little bit longer, right? Eventually Starting in the year 68 and going through the year 70 to 71, 72, Israel, Jerusalem, the Judean people will be completely destroyed by the Romans, which is an act of Christ's judgment that he prophesied and that is carried out because of their fruitlessness. And so if we look at our churches today And we're seeing not much spiritual fruit. We're seeing not much difference that the gospel makes to our lives, really. We're seeing a lot of religious show without any true spiritual depth. then we need to be careful because God is looking for fruit and a fruitless vine, a fruitless fig tree, will be cut down and removed As an example of how fruitless the fig tree of Judaism was at this time, they This woman who has a disabling spirit that's held her imprisoned for 18 years, this woman has suffered She comes to Jesus bent over, unable to fully straighten herself because she's in spiritual bondage. It's not a physical malady. It's a spiritual bondage that has her bent over and unable to straighten herself for eighteen years. And Jesus says, woman, you're freed. Woman, you're freed from your disability. And people, she glorifies God immediately But the ruler of the synagogue, this one who's supposed to be cultivating the vine, seeing that it bears fruit, glorifying God. He's so bound up in his legalistic rules and regulations that allow him to walk around with an air of self-righteous superiority, he says, Hey you people! There's six days a week where you can come and get healed. Just come on one of those days, right? This is the day of rest. And Jesus says, you missed the whole point. You untie your ox or your donkey from the manger. You lead it away to water it. Here is a daughter of Abraham. Here is a child of God. A child of the covenant, whom Satan has bound for 18 years, and I just loosed her, and you complain about what day it is? That's the absurdity of religious legalism, of human self-righteous religiosity. No. The people rejoice at the glorious things done by him, but the synagogue ruler shows that he is that barren fig tree. Now the influence of Christ working among the people, the people rejoicing, shows us that even though there's fruitlessness and even though there's barrenness within established religious societies and structures, The kingdom of God is still influencing. Jesus is doing his work, and it continues to this day. Big churches, powerful churches, wealthy churches. May be spiritually dead. They may be. They often are. But that doesn't mean the kingdom of God isn't working. The kingdom of God is working like like a grain of mustard seed that grows into a giant tree, like a little leaven that's worked into three measures of flour and leavens everything within the flour batch and and the bread rises nicely from that leaven. It is a powerful influence. The gospel, the real gospel, is a powerful influence. And so people want to know, does that mean there are many people who are going to be saved or few people who are going to people are going to be saved. Because here we have this picture where the religious establishment is being condemned, the religious leaders are being condemned. Really the whole of the people of God are say kind of being condemned as barren spiritually on the whole. But the people are rejoicing and the kingdom is spreading? The leaven is influencing. So what's it going to be? Are are those saved going to be many or going to be few? Is it is it is it the fact that most of God's people are spiritually fruitless, or is it the fact that the kingdom of God works in powerful ways and spreads far and wide. Jesus doesn't directly answer the question. He doesn't say whether it's going to be many or few, but he says rather strive to enter through the narrow There are many who seek to enter and are not able. Why? Because they're self-righteous, because they're trying to do it their own own way because they're determined that they're going to set the parameters for how they will approach God. Mm-mm. Nope. When Jesus comes, you need to follow Him His way. Otherwise you'll be left out in judgment. You have to come to Jesus humbly, you have to come to Jesus needing, you have to come to Jesus looking to him Him alone for salvation as he offers it, not under your conditions. Not Jesus, I'll follow you if you give me everything I want on my wish list. No. It has to be Jesus, I need you. And I will follow you no matter what, because you are the Lord. Jesus closes out this chapter here in Luke 13. And here we see that God's heart is never to judge. Lamentations. Chapter 3 tells us that the Lord does not afflict his people from the heart. Judgment is going to come on Jerusalem. It's going to come. But that doesn't mean that Jesus is rejoicing over that. He's weeping over the hard-hearted unwillingness of Jerusalem to receive the Messiah. Messiah, the Son of God. So when judgment comes, like at the beginning of the chapter, the people whose blood was mixed with the sacrifice of the people who on whom the Tower of Silo or the people who fail to enter by the narrow gate or the people who the master finds not working when he comes and they're shut out when he comes There is judgment, and the judgment is real. That doesn't mean that the heart of Jesus is a heart that is wanting to judge or that loves judging Now the heart of Jesus is a heart that laments over the hardness of the human heart and says, if you are willing. Come and I'll give you shelter. If you are willing, come and I will save you. I pray that that's how we're responding. To Jesus today, not making excuses, not parading our self-righteousness, not pushing him off, but coming to him, humble, broken, needy. Obedient, trusting. And he gives us shelter. He'll bring us in under his wings and he'll comfort us. And he'll save us. And he'll use us to be part of that spreading influence of the leaven in the world, that spreading influence of his kingdom. in this age. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you that He has come to set us free from sin and death. And he has come to put us to work in spreading your kingdom influence in a world that desperately needs it. Use us for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. That is Luke 13. Tomorrow we're going to be back in Isaiah. Next couple of days, Isaiah 5 and 6 are on tap. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.