Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day six hundred thirty-three of our three-year journey through the Word of God. I am feeling better and thankful for that and we are in Luke chapter three and I'm thankful for that. Uh wonderful gospel of Luke, wonderful third chapter here. As we see John the Baptist preparing the way for Jesus, and then Jesus baptism as he prepares and is anointed for the ministry that God gave him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for this day. Thank you for loving us. Thank you for being our God, our Father, faithful and true. Thank you for your unfailing love. Your steadfast love, your faithfulness. You are the rock and the fortress that we can run into and hide in and find security because you never change. And you never fail. We thank you for that so much. Lord God, please write Luke 3 on our hearts today. Help us to see the good news of Jesus and to trust in Him more deeply. We pray In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius C Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being Tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip, Tetrarch of the region of Ituria and Trachonidas. And Licinius, Tetrarch of Abilene, during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John, the son of Zechariah. the wilderness. And he went into all the region around the Jordan proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. as it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. every valley shall be filled, every mountain and hill be made low, the crooked places shall become straight, the rough places become level ways, and all flesh shall see the salvation of He said therefore to the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, we have Abraham as our father, for I tell you God is able to raise up from these stones children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. And the crowds asked him, Well, what then shall we do? And he answered them, Whoever has two tunics is to share with him who has none, and whoever has food is to do likewise. Tax collectors also came to be bad And said to him, Teacher, what shall we do? And he said to them, Collect no more than you are authorized to do. Soldiers also asked him, And we what shall we do? And he said to them, Do not extort money from anyone by threats or by false accusation, and be content with your wages. As the people were in expectation, and all were questioning in their hearts concerning John whether he might be the Christ, John answered them all, saying, I baptize with water But he who is mightier than I is coming, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winning fork is in his hand to clear his threshing floor and to gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire So with many other exhortations he preached good news to the people. But Herod the Tetrarch who had been reproved by him for Herodias, his brother's wife, and for all evil things that Herod had done, added this to them all that he locked up John in prison. Now, when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, The heavens were opened, and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove, and a voice came from heaven, you are my believer. Beloved Son, with you I am well pleased. Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the Son as was Son supposed of Joseph, the son of Heli, the son of Mathet, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Janai, the son of Joseph, the son of Matathias, the son of Amos The son of Nahum, the son of Esle the son of Nagai, the son of Maoth, the son of Matathias, the son of Semeen, the son of Joseph, the son of Joda, the son of Joannon, the son of Resa, the son of Zerubb The son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri, the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Kosan, the son of Elmadim, the son of Ur, the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer the son of Joram, the son of Masset, the son of Levi the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonah, the son of Eliakim, the son of Meliah, the son of Menah, the son of Methat Tatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David, the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Selah, the son of Nashon, the son of Amen The son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of the son of Tirah, the son of Nahor, the son of Sirig, the son of Ryu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Sheila, the son of son of Canaan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamak, the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalalel, the son of Canaan, the son of Enos, the son of Seth, Son of Adam the Son of God. That is Luke chapter 3. Well in Luke 3 we get some different things from what we have in Matthew or in Mark or in John. But Matthew's the other place where we have a parallel passage that's most closely to this, in that we have the preaching of John the Baptist and then Jesus being baptized. And then him going out into the wilderness. We also have a genealogy in Matthew, but that's in Matthew chapter one. Here Luke's emphasis is different. Luke is really giving us more detail about the ministry of John the Baptist than any other gospel writer. John, the gospel writer John, who is not John the Baptist, but John the son of Zebedee, brother of James. James, John the Gospel writer, he gives us some theological significance of John the Baptist's ministry in chapter one. He also gives us the clearest testimony from John the Baptist when he says Of Jesus, behold the Lamb of God who comes to take away the sin of the world. So we get a the greatest theological revelation about John the Baptist in John chapter 1, but here in Luke chapter 3 we get the best explanation, the most thorough description of his ministry. We're told exactly when he is ministering. This picks up with the more scholarly, more academic historian, physician, educated Dr. Luke here in Luke chapter 3 as we get past the first time. Of Judea, Herod was the Tetrarch of Galilee. So this is not Herod the Great, who was there when Jesus was born. This is Herod, the son of that Herod, who is Tetrarch, which means there's four kings. He's the king of Galilee. His brother Philip was the king of the region of Ityria and Tric and Trakonite. And then their brother, Licinius, was Tetrarch of Abilene, so he names three of the four rulers who were there. Uh Annas and Caiaphas are the high priest. So he's giving us a very specific time and place. I'm pointing this out for one reason, and that is there's been this recent movement through online atheist agnostics us. But the gospels do not read at all like mythology. Mythology is sort of once upon a time or long ago in a far-off place or long Long, long ago in a galaxy far, far away. That's the way you sort of talk about mythology. This is history. This is such specific history that Luke is giving us a very Traceable chronology. And if you consider that Luke wrote this gospel within, certainly within 40 years. Of Jesus' death and resurrection. So within that span of time, it's like someone today writing about the 1980s Like it's not that long ago that you couldn't check references, right? And so he's telling us exactly when and where, at what time and at what place this happened. So that we can know with confidence that this is history. This is the historical record of the Word of God, of the Savior who came into the world. So he gives us the historical setting and then he gives us the prophetic significance of John coming and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sin. This passage from Isaiah the prophet has been very much misunderstood over the years. What does it mean to prepare the way of the Lord and make his path straight in every valley filled and every mountain hill made low, every crooked straight? Well this is because John is coming and preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. And so these are pictures of a repentance of preparation for the coming of Jesus. Those who became disciples of Jesus, almost all of them had been ones who listened to John the Baptist, were baptized by John the Baptist. Believed the message of John the Baptist, they were prepared for the coming of Jesus. If they were puffed up with pride, they were brought down and humble. If they were cast down low and trampled on by the world, they were lifted up in the dignity of being made in God's image. If they were crooked and out of line, their lives were made straight. Not that they were Redeemed by self-righteousness, but by repentance they were prepared for the coming of Jesus. And so it was those who fought against John the Baptist, the Pharisees. The scribes, the Sadducees, the rulers, those who resisted him, those who resented him, they weren't prepared for Jesus to come, and they didn't receive Jesus. and received the word that he gave, they were prepared for Jesus' coming and they received him as the Lord who was to come. And so that's all that language from Isaiah chapter 40, which is where he's quoting from. So to further explain this, what does it mean to repent? Well, if you repent, you bear fruits in keeping with repentance, verse 8. I think it's wonderful in God's providence that we're here in Luke 3, the day after we were in Ezra 10. Because in Ezra ten we saw the men of Judah and Jerusalem bearing fruit in keeping with repentance. They had sinned by taking And so specific people come to him and say, Well what does it even mean? How do we bear fruit in keeping with Keeping with repentance. And he says, if you have two tunics, share with one who has none. If you have food, share with the one who is hungry. One clear sign. That we have come to know the grace of God in Christ Jesus, that we have repented of our sin of self-righteousness and self-dependence. Is that we are no longer greedy and hoarding and coveting and keeping, but we are open-handed and generous. Tax collectors, collect no more than you're authorized to. Soldiers, don't extort money from anyone. Don't make any false accusations. Be content. Contentment and generosity. Contentment and generosity are two sure signs. They are the fruits of repentance. It's not how we're saved, but it's That's how we show that the grace of God has transformed us because by nature we are discontented, grasping, striving, coveting, and we are stingy and greedy. So if we are content and generous, that shows fruit in keeping with repentance. So everyone's wondering now, John the Baptist, he's come with such power, with such authority, he's baptizing people. He's not really doing any miracles, but boy he He has a bold, authoritative word from the Lord. Is he the Christ? And John makes it very clear, I'm baptizing you with water as preparation. Baptism of repentance. Someone's coming after me, and I am not even worthy to unstrap the sandals. I he's so far above me, and he is going to baptize me Baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. That anticipation of what's going to happen at Pentecost after Christ is glorified and the Holy Spirit is poured out. out on all and then he's going to judge. So Jesus is the one who brings the fullness of redemption and the indwelling power of the Holy Spirit to all believers and then the one who is going So he makes it very clear who Jesus is and when he's coming and what he's going to do. And then he bows We get the shortest description of the baptism of Jesus here, much shorter than it is in Matthew 3, for example, where we have a much more lengthy description but here just to the point that God testifies from heaven the whole the father speaks from heaven the holy spirit comes down on Jesus a picture of God. Do we believe in three gods? No, we only believe in one God, but there's one God who exists in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The baptism of Jesus is perhaps the best picture picture we have. in Scripture of this truth. As soon as we get, you are my beloved son with whom I am well pleased, then we get the genealogy. In Matthew's gospel, he goes immediately out into the desert wilderness to be tempted, which is what happens. But Luke inserts the genealogy here. Luke's genealogy is fundamentally different in two key ways. Matthew's genealogy is concerned to prove that Jesus is the son of Abraham and the Son of David, thus that he is the heir of the covenant of Abraham. And the covenant of David. He was the promised seed, given in the covenant of Abraham, and the promised son of David, given in the covenant of David Matthew's writing primarily to a Jewish audience. Luke is writing primarily to a Greek audience, Greco-Roman, more educated audience. We think. And so he's saying, Son of God. If God the Father proclaimed to be to be the Son of God, let's show a genealogy that takes him all the way back to Adam. Because Adam was the first man. He was made in God's image. He was given rule over God's creation. But Adam messed up. Adam sinned. Adam brought destruction on the creation. So Jesus is the second Adam, the new Adam, the son of Adam who rights the wrongs that Adam brought into the world. And so Luke traces the genealogy of Jesus all the way back to Adam. To show that he is the new Adam, the new and better Adam who undoes the curse brought about by the first Adam. But other than that, we have another issue here. in that Luke's genealogy of Jesus reads very differently from Matthew's genealogy of Jesus. First of all, we should note that Matthew's genealogy of Jesus starts with Abraham and then comes down through the generations to Jesus. Jesus, whereas Luke's genealogy begins with Jesus and goes back up through the genealogies to Adam. So Matthew here in Matthew 1 starts with Abraham, comes Down to Jesus and Luke starts with Jesus and goes back up through David, through Abraham, all the way back to Seth and than Adam. But there are different genealogies from the very beginning. You see here in Luke chapter 3, Joseph is the son of he Joseph, Mary's husband, is the son of Heli. Right? But in Matthew, we can look at the for just a minute. If you come to Matthew chapter 1, starting in uh in verse 16, it says that Jacob was the father of Joseph the husband of Mary. So who was Joseph's dad? Was Joseph's dad Jacob or was Joseph's dad Heli? Now, I think the early church knew the answer to that question. It wasn't a mystery. But why is Joseph listed here as having two different fathers? thus creating two different genealogies. Well, one explanation that's been widely circulated for hundreds of years is that Matthew's gospel is actually giving us the legal Davidic inheritance line that comes down But that Joseph could also be understood as the son of Heli if Heli is Mary's father. Because by marriage, then Joseph becomes Heli's son. And so one traditional way of understanding this is that Luke is giving us Mary's genealogy. So the genealogy of Mary. I don't agree with that. I it it's not a big deal, like if that's what you believe that's fine. It is one possible way of looking at it. But the son of, the son of, the son of, the son of is usually the same way all the way through, and it seems a little bit of sleight of hand to say Joseph is the son of Heli, son-in-law of Heli. Rather, there's a different way of understanding this, and the book of Ruth gives us a clue. Ruth marries Boaz. And Boaz is the kinsman redeemer who marries Ruth in order to redeem the name and the inheritance of Elimelech And so if we jump over here to the book of Ruth in chapter four, we will see that They say a son has been born to Naomi, even though it's Ruth who has the child, but he's counted as Naomi's offspring. His name is Obed. And he is Ruth's child and Boaz is his father, but he's also Naomi's child and Elimelech is his his father because he that's what it means to be a kinsman redeemer. You you have offspring for the one who had died without a male offspring. So this Obed, father of Jesse, father of David, right, Obed the grandfather of David, is he Boaz's son? Or is he Elimelech's son? And the answer that every good Israelite would have known is yes, of course he is. He's Boaz's son by the flesh, but he's Elimelech's son leading by the This was called a Leaverite marriage or a kinsman redeemer marriage. And it seems like Joseph, Jesus' earthly father, was the result of this kind of marriage. So that Heli might have been his biological father, and Jacob might have been his legal father. So in other words, Heli might have been like the Boaz. And Jacob might have been like the Elimelech. Or it could have been the other way around. We don't really know. We're not really told. But that's that's a common way that Joseph would have ended up with two fathers. One who was not biologically his father, but was legally his father, and he was the full heir and son with all the rights of that. So Obed had the full rights as a son of a limelech. Absolutely. And yet everybody knew biologically he was Boaz's son. So that's probably what's going on here is a Leibrite marriage, and I think that's actually part of why we're given the Book of Ruth is as background information so that we can And that's significant because Jesus comes to be our kinsman redeemer. He comes to be our brother, made like us in every respect, so that he could redeem us from the curse that our biological father had passed on down to us, Adam, he comes in and says, I'm going to redeem you. And I'm going to give you a new inheritance and a new name. So I think seeing this as a situation of a kinsman redeemer and a le leave right marriage is actually very beautiful and brings in a bigger picture. Of Christ as our kinsman-Redeemer. So Christ is our promised kinsman-redeemer who comes to redeem us from the curse of the law. He comes to bring us salvation. And if he brings us that salvation, we should bear fruit in keeping with repentance, in keeping with those who have been set free from sin. Father, thank you for Luke chapter three. Thank you for all that you've taught us through this chapter today. Please write it on our hearts. Please help us to think about this and live according to your word today. Help us to bear fruit in keeping With repentance, to be content and generous and so thankful for Jesus, our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Luke chapter three today. We're going to be jumping to the book of Nehemiah tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.