Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. It is day six hundred and sixty-seven of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we come to Luke chapter 11. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this chapter in your word. Thank you for the truth of your word. Thank you for the privilege of being able to gather together day after day and go through your word one chapter at a time. It is a joy and a blessing. We pray that you would build us up in your word to your glory in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Luke chapter 11. Now Jesus was praying in a certain place, and when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples. And he said to them, When you pray, say, Father, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us, and lead us not into temptation. And Jesus said to them, Which of you, who has a friend, will go to him at midnight and say, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him. And he will answer from within, do not bother me. The door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything. I tell you, though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his impudence, he will rise and give him whatever he needs. And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened to you For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will give him instead of a fish give a serpent? Or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion. If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him Now he was casting out a demon that was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the people marveled, but some of them said He casts out demons by Beelzebubul, the prince of demons, while others, to test him, kept seeking from him a sign from heaven. seven. But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided household falls And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebel, and if I cast out demons by Beelzebel, by whom do your sons cast them? Therefore they will be your judges. But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. When a strong man fully armed guards his own palace, his goods are safe. But when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, He takes away his armor in which he trusted and divides his spoil. Whoever is not with me is against me, whoever does not gather with me scatters. When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest, and finding none, it says, I will return to my house from which I came. And the other thing is that the words are a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little Then it goes and brings seven other spirits, more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there, and the last state of that person will be worse than than the first. As he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you and the breasts at which you nursed. But he said, Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, This generation is an evil generation. It seeks for a sign. But no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah. For as Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so will the Son of Man be to this generation. The Queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. and behold, something greater than Solomon is here. The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold something greater than Jonah is here. Year, no one, after lighting a lamp, puts it in a cellar or under a basket. your fight Your body is full of darkness. Therefore be careful lest the light in you be darkness. If then your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly bright. as when a lamp with its rays gives you light. While Jesus was speaking, a Pharisee asked him to dine with him, so he went in and And the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup. and of the dish. But inside you are full of greed and wickedness. You fools did not he who made the outside make the inside also? But give as alms those things that are within, and behold everything is clean for you But woe to you, Pharisees, for you tithe mint and roux and every herb, and neglect justice and the love Woe to you, Pharisees, for you love the best seat in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces. Woe to you, for you are like unmarked grain. And people walk over them without knowing it. One of the lawyers answered him, Teacher, in saying these things you insult us also. And he said, Woe to you, lawyers also, for you load people with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers. Woe to you For you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers killed, so you are witnesses and you consent to the deeds of your fathers, for they killed them, and you build their tombs Therefore also the wisdom of God said, I will send them prophets and apostles, some of whom they will kill and persecute. so that the blood of all the prophets shed from the foundation of the world may be charged against this generation. From the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary, yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation. Woe to you, lawyers, for you have taken away the key of knowledge. You did not enter yourselves, and you hindered those who were entering. As he went away from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to give him began to press him hard and provoke him to speak about many things, lying in wait for him to catch him in something he might say. And that is Luke chapter 11 in the ESV, another wonderful and filled chapter from Dr. Luke. Here we have quite a bit of urgency in this chapter. There's a lot of spiritual conflict uh being discussed and described and uh taking place in this chapter. It's a good reminder to us as a chapter that we live in a war zone. We live in the reality of ongoing kingdom conflict between the Kingdom of Darkness and between Satan and those who are under his sway and following his leadership and those who've been set free from that darkness. and who belong to King Jesus. And it opens up with the Lord's Prayer, Luke's recording of the Lord's Prayer. Um probably there was more than one occasion on which Jesus spoke about this prayer. It's included in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew's Gospel. And then this is a more private telling of it in response to the disciples asking. Jesus specifically to teach them to pray. The Lord's prayer is really the kingdom prayer. It is the disciples' prayer, but it is the kingdom prayer It's not necessarily intended to be a prayer that is just memorized and recited. Of course, you can memorize it and you can't And recite it, in which case most people go with the longer version that's in Matthew, uh, as well as the traditional ending of Thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. But that is not necessarily the primary purpose for it. Rather, it's to teach us how to pray. To teach us what the pattern and the priorities in our prayers should be. be and it begins with the hallowing of God's name. It begins with the honoring, the honoring of God's name. This is one of the radical things that Jesus does is he teaches that those who belong to the kingdom of God don't just have God as their great king, but God as their father who cares for them and teach Teaches them and provides for them and disciplines them and leads them. And we want God's name to be honored above all other names. The name of God is The revelation of God's character, God's self-disclosure. He is Yahweh, the great I Am. He is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. He is the Lord God Almighty. And we should honor and reverence how God has revealed Himself. And we should want everyone in the world to honor and reverence how God has revealed Himself. because that means that they are in his kingdom and no longer in the kingdom of darkness, no longer under condemnation, but they're giving honor and glory to the one who made them and the one who keeps them and the one who redeems them. Your kingdom come. In Matthew's gospel we get your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. These are really the same thing, right? The short version is your kingdom come. What would it look like for God's kingdom of to come? It would mean for God's will to be done on earth as it is in heaven. It means for the the rule of God, the reign of God over people's hearts and minds and lives and over groups and churches and and And societies that got for God to rule even more on earth, ever more and more on earth, even as he does in heaven. That's what it means for God's kingdom to come Come. Give us each day our daily bread. We need we are dependent upon God for everything. We we don't give ourselves anything. We don't even give ourselves the next breath. It's given to us by God, the next heartbeat, the next moment. Every bit of food we eat, every bit of air we breathe, every bit of life we live, every bit of beauty we see, every bit of truth we understand, every bit of love we receive, every everything that's given to us day by day is given to us given to us by the hand of God, we are dependent upon him, and so we should ask him for what we need. But we should also keep in mind that the daily bread we most need is the Word of God and especially the Word of God incarnate. So the Bible and the Lord Jesus are our daily bread. And that's a reminder to us that we should be in the Word and walking with Jesus day by day, even as we're asking God to meet all of our basic needs. Forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who's indebted to us. If we if we really truly want God to forgive us, we should realize that We should be as forgiving to other people because we have sinned more against God than anybody has sinned against us. Because every sin we've ever committed in our entire lives, in thought, word, or deed, by the wrong things we've done or the good things we've neglected, all of our sins have been sins against God, and we're for asking God to forgive all of that, that's a huge weight of debt. that we're asking him to forgive. And so whatever anyone else has done to us, even something severe, even something heavy, we should forgive it. We should release them from We should set them free from having any obligation to us because of the wrong they did to us. Now it doesn't mean that the wrong that they did was right. It doesn't mean that there aren't any natural consequences they're going to suffer from that wrong, but we release them from any obligation they have to us, right, on the basis of the wrong they did to us. We want to free them from that. And lead us not into temptation. We need God to lead us away from temptation because we're naturally inclined to lead to it. Right? We don't need any help finding it. We need help avoiding it. This is a pattern of prayer. This is how we should be praying for our lives. I hope that you will pray this way. If you're not praying already, I hope that you will make it a habit to regularly pray. And and specifically, if you go to Forest Hill Church in particular, Most of you do, but I know not everyone who watches this or listens to it does. If you go to Forest Hill Church or whatever church you go to, would you make it a habit to regularly pray the Lord Prayer, the the priorities of the Lord's Prayer for your church community, for Forest Hill Church, and for your church community. That God would be honored in our church, that God's kingdom would come more and more in our church, his manifest rule and will be done, that God would provide for all of our needs. And that he would teach us that we're dependent upon him, that he would forgive us and that we would be a forgiving people, and that we would be led away from temptation. To pray those things for yourself and for your family and for your church is just Something that should be a daily part of your walk with Christ. And then Jesus teaches us about prayer. And we're doing a Bible study on Thursday nights right now called It's based on a book called A Praying Life by Paul Miller. And the wonderful, wonderful book, very helpful, very practical, very challenging, very gospel-centric. And this book, Praying Life, teaches us that you could summarize all of Jesus' teaching on prayer with one word, ask. Jesus is always encouraging us to ask the Father And here he gives us an illustration of a man who in the middle of the night needs three loaves of bread. That's a pressing need. It's an inconvenient need. It's a real need. And he goes and he asks his friend, and his friend is going to get up and give it to him, not because he necessarily loves him, but because He his boldness in coming in the middle of the night and pounding on the door. How much more, right? It's not that God doesn't care for us. We can't misunderstand But it's not that God doesn't care, it's that how much more, since God does care for us, if we have a pressing need and we bring it to Him, how much more will He delight to answer? Us. And then he says, what father among you, if his son asked for a fish, we'll give him a serpent, or if he asked for an egg, we'll give him a scorpion. We are not going to give bad things to our kids. Not on purpose, not if we're decent loving fathers. How much more will God give us the Holy Spirit and all good things that were needful for this life? and for eternity. But he'll give us the Holy Spirit. Which means, you know, do you know that sometimes without even realizing it, we're asking God for serpents and scorpions. Hmm. Sometimes if we pray out of our selfish desires and we just want more money or we just want a better job or we just want uh people Even if we ask for them, he's instead going to give us fish and eggs and bread and the Holy Spirit. He's going to give us what is good and what is needful for us. And we need to trust Trust him for that. Um we have some kingdom conflict here where Jesus is casting out demons and he's teaching how he has come in as the stronger one to overcome Satan and his kingdom and those who are held captive by him Now one of the points here is that it's sort of obvious to everyone that this man who had a mute demon was demon-possessed. of all the prince of demons. But the reality is that everybody, everybody who is born into the world is born under the oppression of the Everyone is born in bondage to sin, under a sentence of death, and under the oppression of the That is simply the truth of the human condition. And Jesus is the only one who can come and set us free from that. He comes and he sets us free. And so he says, if you're not with me, if you're not pro-Jesus, if you're not wanting the name of Jesus to be spread, wanting the gospel of Jesus to be spread us to be believed, then then you're not bringing people out of darkness into light. You're just part of the problem. Because he's the only one stronger than Satan who can bind him, who can plunder his goods. If an unclean spirit goes out, finds no rest, it comes back with seven others. There's no such thing as a spiritual vacuum. Well one of the things we're seeing, one possible way to apply this short passage here is in the West, in America and Europe. Europe and in the West. And since that has stopped, it's not like there's no spirituality. It's not like it's purely secular. Rather, what has happened is there's In this influx of false teachings. There's no such thing as a spiritual vacuum. If you if you won't believe in God, the one true God and the gospel of Jesus Jesus Christ. The alternative is not that you're going to believe in nothing, but that you'll end up believing in just about anything. So we have a rise of neopaganism, and we have a rise of witchcraft, and we have a rise of superstition, right, and all sorts of things that are that are really should they're worse they're way more infantile and and foolish and baseless, you know, than than Christianity, which is a truth that sets people free. So we need to not be empty, we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit is the point of that. Verses twenty seven and twenty-eight are so interesting because whenever I read them and think about them, honestly I think, wow, that's a pretty direct rebuke to The Hail Mary. Right? Even though Mary, historically, right, Mary was pronounced to be the most blessed of women by her cousin Elizabeth. Because she was the mother of the Son of God. And that is certainly a position of great blessing. But if there's just this woman who's crying Isn't it how how wonderful and amazing must be the woman who brought you into this world? Jesus said, Well, blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and give me a Keep it. Now Mary was one who heard the word of God and who kept it. And that's what made her blessed. It's not it's not a mere uh position in a fleshly line. That it is it is those, all of those, you and I included, who hear the word of God and keep it in another place in the gospels, you know. Um people Mary and the younger half brothers of Jesus come to see him and they say, Uh, Jesus, your your mother and your brothers are outside waiting to hear, waiting to talk to you. They w want to talk to you urgently. And he looks around and he says, These are my mother and my brothers. the ones who hear the word of God and do it. So that's the important thing is it's faith, it's faith, and obedience that comes from faith. That counts in the kingdom of God, not mere lineage. Sign of Jonah, pretty obvious one, I think Jesus is going to be resurrected after three days. And just as the men of J Nineveh saw Jonah come in after he'd been spit up by this giant fish in three days and he he could tell them that story, they could see it, and he was assigned to them. And we need to hear and see It's a spiritually healthy way of looking at things. It's it's being open to God's revelation of Himself. It's to look at creation and see the creator, it's to read the Word of God and Understand it as being the Word of God. It's to have this outlook that says, God is real and He is revealing Himself in creation and in the Word. And I want to see But if your eye if your outlook is cynical, if your outlook is selfish, if your outlook is twisted, if your outlook is is uh full of despair, you know, just despising things, well then And your whole body's gonna be full of darkness, and it's terrible. It's a terrible place to be, to be blind to the light of God Externalism, much like uh lineage, right? Pharisees, lawyers, religions in general, man-made religions in general, are very, very good at external They care about things like lineage. Well, I'm the fifth descendant of so-and-so, therefore I am such and such. Or they care about external ceremonies. ceremonies, washings. This is a this isn't about hygiene. It's not like Jesus didn't wash before dinner because he's unhygienic. This is an extra biblical tradition that involves ceremonial cleaning. They think that by doing ceremonies with water they'll make themselves clean. But only God can make us really clean Clean and they are rejecting the Son of God who's in their midst and who has come to make them clean. And Jesus pulls no punches to make it very clear you guys are leading people astray. Because you have the Word of God and you've read it and yet you are violently opposed. These are going to be the people who will conspire to put Jesus to death, who will conspire to kill many of the early apostles and disciples They are violently opposed to the truth of God because they don't want anyone else to have it. They've taken away the key of knowledge, they've not entered themselves, and they've hindered those who were entering. Verse 52 Who says they don't want to get into the kingdom of God. They want to be kings of their own kingdom. So they've kept the key of knowledge away from the people. They've locked up the Word of God so that it's unapproachable. People have to come through them and get their expert opinion. And they and they shut people out of the kingdom of God, and that is a huge, terrible problem. And that's also a very common thing in religion. If you want an answer to a spiritual, theological, biblical question You have to go consult the expert because only the expert would know. Rather the word of God is open to all who believe and who have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit and who are teachable in their spirit and who are uh you know, in keeping with the whole counsel of the Word of God is the kingdom of God is open. It's open to those who believe. It's not closed and locked away behind a A door. Alright, so Luke 11, to recap, we live in a place, in a time, in a reality of spiritual conflict. We need to pray. Kingdom prayers. We need to proclaim the good news of the kingdom. We need to ask God for what is needed for His kingdom in this world. We need to see the seriousness of spiritual blindness and understand that only God can change hearts and set people free. We need to stop trusting in external things like our nationality or our lineage or our ceremony Or the practices we do. It's all about King Jesus. Good things, he's the one we trust and love and follow and proclaim. King Jesus, our Lord, our Savior, you are so good. Help us to trust you and follow you. Help us to believe you and proclaim you. Help us to to love you and show you to others and bring others to you. We pray this. In Jesus' name. Amen. That is Luke chapter 11. Tomorrow we're beginning a new book, the book of Isaiah. Yep, the book that I'm preaching through on Sunday mornings we're starting, so I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day. In the Lord