Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 1095, day 1095, our next to last day. In God's Word, as we come to the end of our three-year journey through the Word of God one chapter at a time. Today we're in Malachi 3, the next to last chapter of the Old Testament. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It's been a blessing to be in it. Every part of your word is a rich blessing. Write Malachi 3 in our hearts. Help us to understand it with our minds and come to believe you more deeply. And to follow you more faithfully for how you speak to us through your word today. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Malachi 3 Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me, and the Lord, whom you seek, will suddenly come to his temple. And the messenger of the covenant, in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller's soap. He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi, and refine them like gold and silver and they will bring offerings in righteousness to the Lord. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord, as in the days of old, and as in former years. Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker in his wages The widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner, and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. For I, the Lord, do not change. Therefore you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed. From the days of your fathers, you have turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. But you say, how shall we return? Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, How have we robbed you in your tithes and contributions? You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you Bring the full tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, and thereby put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts. If I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need I will rebuke the devourer for you, so that it will not destroy the fruits of your soil, and your vine in the field shall not fail to bear, says the Lord of hosts. Then all nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight, says the Lord of hosts. Your words have been hard against me, says the Lord, but you say, How have we spoken against you? You have said, it is vain to serve God. What is the profit of keeping his charge, or of walking as in mourning before the Lord of hosts? And now we call the arrogant blessed. Evildoers not only prosper, but they put God to the test and they escape. Then the Lord, then those who feared the Lord, spoke with one another. The Lord paid attention and heard them. And a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the Lord and esteemed his name. They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts. in the day when I make up my treasured possession, and I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him Then once more you shall see the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between the one who serves God and the one who does not serve him So we come to the next to last chapter in the Old Testament, which is our next to last chapter together in our three-year journey through the Word of God. And God promises here at the beginning of Malachi 3, the last word that we'll have from the Lord for 400 years. He promises the coming of John the Baptist. and the coming of Jesus. You see that? Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. So the messenger who prepares the way is John the Baptist, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. That's not only predicting the coming of the Messiah. And it's not the word Yahweh here. You see it's not in all caps, right? It's not the word Yahweh, it's the it's the word Adonai, or master or ruler. But we know it is the Lord God Almighty Himself and not just a master or a ruler because the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. You see, in worship, God's people were seeking God, and the temple doesn't belong to anybody but God. And so Not only is God telling us that he's going to send the messenger to prepare the way, which is John the Baptist, but he says that he himself is going to come. The Lord, God, is going to come. And the messenger of the covenant, in whom you delight, behold, he is coming. And here, this this title of the messenger of the covenant is a little bit vague. Some people think that Um it's a reference to John the Baptist, but probably it's better to understand it as the Lord and as this kind of being the equivalent expression of the angel of the Lord. An angel's a messenger. And the messenger of the covenant is, so the messenger prepares the waves, John the Baptist, but the messenger of the covenant is probably the same as the Lord whom you seek. Because it's it's in whom you delight. You see, in Malachi's day, four hundred years before the coming of Christ, they weren't delighting in John the Baptist. They were the faithful ones, the ones whose names are written in the book of remembrance at the end of this chapter, they were delighting in the Lord, and He's the one who's coming. He's the one who's coming. But to be specific, it's the Lord coming as the angel of the Lord or the messenger of the covenant, which are Old Testament ways of referring to the second person of the Trinity. So the Trinity is not really fully revealed until the New Testament, and I know that Trinity is not a biblical word, but the truth that there is one God who as one God exists eternally, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, that these three are one God, that that is revealed in the New Testament, but it's hinted at From Genesis I, let us make man in our image, to Malachi III. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple, and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming. says the Lord of hosts. This is a this is a hint that there is plurality within the Godhead. There's a specificity. of of who is coming. But who can endure the day of his coming and who can stand when he appears? When Jesus came into the temple, into his temple He drove out the people who were running the place. He overturned the tables of the money changers. He drove out the animal sellers because they had corrupted his temple and then he he pronounced judgment on that temple. He said not one stone would remain upon another. And forty years later that's exactly what happened in A D seventy, when the Romans destroyed the temple, not one stood on top of another. Today there's the western wall or the wailing wall where you'll see people go and pray and they'll say that's the last part of the temple. It's not actually part of the temple. That's part of the retaining wall of the temple mound. Where the temple would have stood is on top of that whole mound where the current dome of the rock is. There is not a single stone. of that original temple left. There's just part of the retaining wall from the original Temple Mound and some of the steps going up to the Temple Mound. But no part of the temple itself, not one stone was left on another because the Lord came to judge. He came to judge against the corrupt leadership of God's people. Now Malachi 3. 6 is one of the most precious verses in the Bible. It's one of these verses that's worth memorizing, meditating on. For I, the Lord. Do not change. Therefore, you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed. The unchangeability of God, the immutability of God means that he doesn't waver from his promises and his purposes, and because he's purposed from all eternity that he will have a people for himself. And he's chosen us an election, which he talked about in chapter two of Jacob I've loved and Esau I've hated. I've loved you. That's actually chapter one, right? Um so God's purposes don't change. And that way that way, even though we sin, even though we're we are not faithful, God remains faithful because God never changes. And it is the immutability of God, it's the unchangeability of God. That is our guarantee that God won't wake up tomorrow and have a bad day and decide to scrap the whole project. He's not going to do that because he doesn't change and therefore we are not consumed. And then there's engaging this dialogue between God and his people, where God is calling to his people, and his people are acting like they're confused, like they don't know what God's problem is. Like, what's going on? Why are you upset with us? And so God says, return to me, and they say, well how shall we return? What do you mean return? We're we're here in the temple worshiping you. You gotta understand this is a time when they're not worshiping the Baals and the Asheras. They're pretty much not going to the to the practisers of magic anymore. They're going to the temple and they're worshiping. But God's saying, no, you still need to return to me. And so they say, how shall we return? And so he says, how come you're robbing me? And they say, how are we robbing you? And God says, in your tithes and contributions. Again, this is a theme that was touched on earlier in Malachi in chapter two. If God is the one we love, and the one we seek, and the one we worship, he will have the first and the best. You will not have the leftovers and the scraps. The full tithe is the full 10% to be brought into the household of God. And contributions means you bring in the full tithe and you give above and beyond. the tithe. And we need to be committed to doing that. We need to be committed to doing that. God uses that to to bless his people, to advance his kingdom, to do his work. Now some people have taken these verses and told them, like, try to make some sort of magic formula out of it, that if you give ten percent of your income to God, you will be wealthy, you will be financially secure for the rest of your life. It's not that kind of promise. But it is one of the very few places, in fact just about the only place, where God invites us to put him to the test In other words, give God the first 10% of your income for an extended period of time and see what He does I'm not saying you're going to be healthy, wealthy, and all your problems are going to go away, but God invites us to see His faithfulness. If you don't think you can do it, just trust God and see what God does. And then God returns to them and says, Your words have been hard against me. And they think, Well, how have we spoken hard against you? It's because in their hearts, I believe what God is talking about here is something that they're saying in their hearts, just like Jesus when he came was able to read people's hearts and know their hearts. It is vain to serve God. What is the profit of keeping our charge or of walking as in mourning before the Lord of hosts? In other words They think, here we are at the temple, offering our animals, they now be perfect, but they're still animals and we're giving them up And we're bringing in the grain and we're bringing in what's being asked of us. We're doing it half-heartedly and it's not the best, but we're still doing it. And it doesn't seem to be getting us anywhere. We're not wealthy, we're not strong, we're not powerful. What's the point? And God says, you've missed the whole point. You have missed the entire point. But not everyone has missed the point. And here's the grace of God. God knows that there are those who truly fear Him. By His grace, His grace has changed their hearts, and they fear Him. And they speak to one another encouraging words about the Lord. They don't say it's vain to serve God. They don't rob God of tithes and offerings. They are encouraging one another. with godly conversation to continue in the fear of the Lord. And the Lord pays attention and he hears and he writes a book of remembrance. I love this. The Book of Remembrance. This is the book of life. The Lamb's Book of Life. It shows up in Scripture later several times. God will not forget. It's called the book of remembrance because God will not forget those who fear him and those who seek him. And when he comes, when he comes on the great day of the Lord. Everyone will see. When judgment comes, those who belong to him will be spared, and will be brought into his household as his own children. And we will see. Okay. All these people called themselves Christians. All these people went to church. All these people, but these people, they really feared the Lord. And walked in his ways. They weren't hypocrites. And God will again, he will make everything right in the end. That is something we must walk by. We must walk by that rule. God will make it all right. in the end. We can trust him. We can trust him with our tithes and offerings. We can trust him with our faith. We can trust him to never change and never break his promises because he is the Lord Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that you never change. And thank you that because you never change, we are not consumed. And thank you that your promises are yes in Christ. And thank you. That Christ is coming again to take us to Himself. We praise you. In Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Well, tomorrow we're going to finish with Malachi chapter 4. Have a blessed day in the Lord.