Good morning and welcome for the final time to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And we are today in Malachi chapter 4. And a theme that we've touched on so many times throughout Scripture is here at the very end of our journey, and that is the coming great day of the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are great and greatly to be praised. You are awesome in holiness. You are faithful in promise-keeping. We love you. We love your word. We love your kingdom. We love your church. We love your son. Help us to continue to grow in love for you and for the things that you teach us and call us to. In Jesus' name, amen. Malachi four, for behold, the day is coming. Burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts. so that it will leave them neither root nor branch, but for you who fear my name. The sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall, and you shall tread down the wicked, for they shall believe they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day when I act, says the Lord of hosts. Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet. before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes, and he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children, and the hearts of children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter. Desolation. The great day of the Lord is coming. It has come. And it is here now, and it is coming when Jesus returns again. The day is coming when everything evil, everything vile, everything opposed to God and his will and his people The arrogant, the evildoers will be burned up, will be done with, finished, no more evil, no more arrogance, no more rebellion. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts. But I love the promise of verse 2. For you who fear my name, these are the ones whose names are written in this book of remembrance. Do you fear the name of the Lord? Do you stand in awe of him? Do you worship him? Is he the compelling and controlling figure in your life? You who fear my name, for you, the Son of Righteousness, will rise with healing in its wings. We will be healed. of all of our backslidings, of all of our inconsistencies, of all of our diseases, of all of our weaknesses. You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall. Free! We will be free Free of the chains of our mortality and our sicknesses, free of the chains of our sinful nature and our brokenness, we will be free Until that day, we're to remember the Word of God. And we're to walk in His ways. Now, at the end here, we actually have a prophecy that is Partly fulfilled in John the Baptist. He wasn't the complete fulfillment of this Elijah, which is why he himself denied being Elijah. But Jesus himself said he was the Elijah who was to come. And what did what did John do? Well he he called people to repentance. Those who listened to the ministry of John the Baptist and who repented. were more prepared for the coming of Jesus. And so instead of all of God's people in Israel and Judea and Jerusalem being completely wiped out There was a holy remnant. Almost all the disciples of Jesus who came out of the Jewish people were people who had first heard and listened to and responded to the message of John the Baptist. Now, is there also an Elijah figure coming in the end of all things to bring a period of revival even as that final period of persecution is underway for the church? I don't know. I don't know. But here's what I do know. God is faithful. And God will keep his own. And none of those who belong to him will be lost. We can trust him because the great day of the Lord is indeed coming, because Jesus is indeed coming. And we will see him face to face and we will be like him and we'll be free forevermore. That is certainly something worth looking forward to and something worth living for. Well that brings us to the end. To the end of 1096 days together, to the end of three years, to the end of every chapter. We've read every chapter, we've read every verse. So I hope it's been a blessing to you. Again, if you didn't join us at the very beginning, they're all available online. Go back to the beginning and start from the beginning. If you went through the whole thing and you want to just start over again, you can do that. It's there for you If you have any questions, feel free to email me. I would love to interact with you. Pastor at foresthillpaca. org is my email address. That's pastor at foresthillpca. org. You can also leave a comment on YouTube and I'll respond to those comments in due time. But I hope that this has been a blessing to you. It certainly has been a blessing to me. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Oh, every part of your word is precious. It's more precious than gold. It's just wonderful. Reveals you to us, shows us ourselves, shows us our need and how you've met that need in Christ, gives us reason to rejoice and hope and trust. And continue to walk with you by faith. Thank you. Thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you for your love unfailing. Thank you for Jesus our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you for joining me for this three-year journey through the Word of God. And today, as always, I do pray that you have a blessed day. In the Lord.