Good morning, good morning, good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is Day 1093, and we have come to Malachi chapter 2. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are so good and gracious. You've been faithful to us for three years now in your word, day by day. You've been good. You've spoken to us. You've challenged us. You've comforted us. Speak to us again through Malachi II. Write it on our hearts by your Holy Spirit and draw us to love Jesus more deeply, we pray. In his name. Amen. Malachi two, and now, O priests, this command is for you. If you will not listen If you will not take it to heart to give honor to my name, says the Lord of hosts, then I will send the curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings. Indeed, I have already cursed them, because you do not lay it to heart. Behold, I will rebuke your offspring and spread dung on your faces, the dung of your offspring, and you of your offerings, and you shall be taken away with it. So shall you know that I have sent this command to you, that my covenant with Levi may stand, says the Lord of hosts. My covenant with him was one of life and peace, and I gave it to I gave them to him. It was a covenant of fear, and he feared me. He stood in awe of my name. True instruction was in his mouth, and no wrong was found on his lips. He walked with me in peace and uprightness, and he turned many from iniquity. For the lips of a priest should guard knowledge, and people should seek instruction from his mouth, for he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts. But you have turned aside from the way. You have caused many to stumble by your instruction. You have corrupted the covenant of Levi, says the Lord of hosts, and so I make you despise. And abased before all the people, inasmuch as you do not keep my ways, but show partiality in your instructions Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? Why then are we faithless to one another, profaning the covenant of our fathers? Judah has been faithless, and abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem, for Judah has profaned the sanctuary of the Lord, which he loves. and has married the daughter of a foreign god, may the Lord cut off from the tents of Jacob any descendant of the man who does this, who brings an offering to the Lord of hosts. And the second thing you do, you cover the Lord's altar with tears, with weeping and groaning. Because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand. But you say, why does he not? Because the Lord was witness Between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you've been faithless Though she is your companion and your wife by covenant, did he not make them one with a portion of the Spirit in their union? And what was the one God seeking? Godly offspring. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and let none of you be faithless to the wife of your youth. For the man who does not love his wife, but divorces her, says the Lord, the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence says the Lord of hosts. So guard yourselves in the spirit and do not be faithless. You have wearied the Lord with your words. How have we wearied him By saying, everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delights in them, or by asking, where is the God of justice? Malachi 2, Malachi continues, the Lord through Malachi continues to confront the priests. And the priests are not doing what they're supposed to do. And this is this is a good check for us as believers because we believe in the universal priesthood of all believers in Christ. Christ is the prophet, priest, and king, the Messiah. We are in Christ, we are united to Christ, we are in him, he is in us, and in him we have been made a kingdom of priests. We're given kingship, we're given priestly call, and we're also called to be those who proclaim the Word of God, as ambassadors of Christ, as prophets, not prophets who are issuing new prophecy, but who are proclaiming the Word of God. Now some are preachers and do that. So I think it's I think it's a call for all Christians to examine themselves and perhaps especially pastors to examine themselves, but for all Christians as well. So If you don't give honor to God, if you are, what are we called to do as priests, as believers? We're called to offer to God our bodies as a living sacrifice. Yesterday I talked about how God should have the first of our affections and the first and the best of our time and our money. We're to be a living sacrifice, which is our spiritual act of worship, Romans 12, 1 and 2. Not to be conformed any longer to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewal of our mind. We're to worship in that way. We're also to teach, to instruct. Fathers are to teach their children. Mothers are to teach their children. Believers are to instruct unbelievers in the truth about who God is. And God talks about Levi here and how he made a covenant with him, one of life and peace, and I gave it to him. Now what's interesting is the actual man Levi, the actual son of Jacob, Israel. This isn't really talking about him. It's talking about the Levitical priesthood collectively. So just as David is sometimes used to refer to those who are descendants of David or the future Messiah as a David. The Levi here, it's think about Aaron and his sons, not Nadab and Abihu who got burned up because they offered strange fire, but the sons who took the place. And and the faithful priests like Abiathar, Zadok, and others, what do they do? Well, they Worshiped God rightly, and they spoke the word of God rightly. And that's what we're to do too. Worship God rightly and speak the word of God rightly. Instead It says, you have caused many to stumble by your instruction. Think when you post on social media, I am a priest, I am an ambassador for Christ. Am I going to cause many to stumble by my instruction? Think when you speak to your children, when you ask your children to lie for you? Or when you tell your children that you're going to prioritize something over God, is your instruction causing many to stumble? Mm. Just think about that. And so God says, Don't be faithless. Don't be faithless. Be faithful. The second major point I want to draw up from here comes from the end, and that is husbands with wives in particular. And, you know, in 1 Peter 3. 7, God says that husbands are to live with their wives in an understanding manner, and that if you don't, that God will not hear your prayers. Because you have to treat your wife with with honor as a weaker vessel, as the one who needs your protection and your provision if you don't treat her that way with honor. As one made in God's image, as one redeemed by the blood of Christ, God will not hear your prayers. Same thing here to the priests. You cover the Lord's altar with weeping and groaning. But he no longer regards your offering. Why? Because you're being a jerk to your wife. I'm putting it in modern parlance. You're treating her with disrespect. You're cheating on her. You're your neglecting her, you're divorcing her. Like this is not good. And I think in today's culture we could say the same thing wives to your husbands as well. If your marriage does not reflect Christ. Again, nobody perfectly. It's not perfect. But if your marriage does not sincerely reflect Christ, Your first ministry, Christian husband, Christian wife, your first ministry is to your spouse. And so if you are not ministering God's grace to your spouse, how can you minister it to anybody beyond your spouse? So that's the call for today. Right worship, right instruction, and right marriage. We need God's help to do that. Jesus as our great high priest, Jesus as the Word of God made flesh, Jesus as the husband to the church, is our example and our strength to be able to do these things. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that we have such a husband as the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you that we have such a high priest as the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you that we have such A one who is the truth, the word made flesh. May there be more and more of Jesus in our hearts and minds and lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Malachi 2. Tomorrow we're taking a break to finish the book of James, which is our last New Testament book. James 5 is on tap 4 tomorrow. I hope you can join us for that And I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.