Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 1092 And we are here in the Book of Malachi, beginning the last book of the Old Testament and the last book that we will be doing together in our three-year journey through the Word of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, every part of it. Thank you for this final Old Testament prophet, Malachi, thank you for the words that will challenge us and comfort us, and we pray that you would speak to us today through Malachi 1. In Jesus' name. Amen. Malachi 1, the Oracle of the Word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. I have loved you, says the Lord. But you say, How have you loved us? Is not Esau Jacob's brother, declares the Lord? Yet I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated. I have laid waste his hill country and left his heritage to jackals of the desert. If Edom says, We are shattered, but we will rebuild the ruins The Lord of hosts says, They may rebuild, but I will tear down, and they will be called the wicked country, and the people with whom the Lord is angry forever. Your own eyes will see this. and you shall say, Great is the Lord beyond the border of Israel. A son honors his father, and a servant his master If then I am a father, where is my honor? And if I am a master, where is my fear? says the Lord of hosts to you, O priests, who despise my name. But you say, How have we despised your name? By offering polluted food upon my altar. But you say, How have we polluted you? By saying that the Lord's table may be despised. When you offer blind animals in sacrifice, is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lame or sick, is that not evil? Present that to your governor. Will he accept you or show you favor, says the Lord of hosts? And now, entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious to us. With such a gift from your hand, will he show favor to any of you? says the Lord of hosts. Oh, that there were one among you who would shut the doors, that you might not kindle fire on my altar in vain I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of hosts, and I will not accept an offering from your hand. For from the rising of the sun to its setting, my name will be great among the nations and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure offering, for my name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts. But you profane it When you say that the Lord's table is polluted and its fruit, that is its food, may be despised. But you say, what a weariness this is. And you snort at it, says the Lord of hosts. You bring what has been taken by violence, or is lame or sick, and this you bring as your offering. Shall I accept it from your hand? says the Lord. Cursed be the cheat who has a male in his flock and vows it, and yet sacrifices to the Lord what is blemished. For I am a great king, says the Lord of hosts, and my name will be feared among the nations. That is Malachi chapter 1. Malachi is the last of the Old Testament prophets, although in a sense, of course, John the Baptist is the last of the Old Testament prophets because he's the last prophet to be under the Old Covenant. But the last of the writing of the literary Old Testament prophets and the last prophet before the coming of John the Baptist. It would be 400 years between Malachi and the coming of John the Baptist. This is after the exile and the return and the rebuilding of the temple. There is no more outward, obvious idolatry in Israel anymore. No more Baals, no more asheras, no more carved images, graven images. But that doesn't mean that they're in worship. is pleasing to God, does it? So Malachi is a very relevant book to us who call upon the name of the Lord and who worship him. And it confronts us with how we worship God, how we approach God. First of all, Malachi begins with the Lord's love for his own. Our love for God is always, only, ever a response to God's love for us first. And so the first words are, I have loved you, says the Lord. And it's because the people of God doubt God's love for them that their worship of Him is so half-hearted. They answer back, how have you loved us? And the Lord says, is not Esau Jacob's brother? Yet I have loved Esau. Sorry, yet I have loved Jacob. That I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated. This is the doctrine of election. There were twins. In Rebecca's womb, Jacob and Esau, before either one of them was born or had done anything. God said that the older will serve the younger. And here he says, I've loved Jacob, but I've hated Esau, even though they were brothers. God sovereignly chooses. Who he will have mercy on, who he will put his love upon, who he will adopt as his children, and who he will not And you cannot understand the love of God for you personally unless you understand that you were chosen by God personally, and that is why you are a believer. If you think that the love of God is vague, universal, nonspecific, general, and only ever provides people with an opportunity to respond. Well then salvation is ultimately in our hands, and God doesn't love us any more than he loves anybody else. We're no more special to him than anybody else, and we can't really understand the depth of his personal love for us. Does God love the whole world? Yes. Does God love all people who are made in his image? Yes. Is God good to all people whom he's created? Absolutely. God is good to all He makes his son to rise on the just and the unjust, and he sends down rain on the righteous and on the wrong. Jesus said that. But He has a specific choosing, saving love for his children. I have three children. There are lots of kids at our church that I love, and I love them in a special way because I'm their pastor. There are lots of kids in our neighborhood here or that go to my kids' school, and of course I love them because I'm called to love everybody. But you would understand if I would say there's a difference between the way I love the kids like in our neighborhood or at our school versus the way I love the kids who are in our church because I'm their pastor versus the way that I love my three kids because I'm their father. There's a difference. There's a distinction. God is perfect, but God has a specific love for his own. Now what's interesting is what he speaks against Edom here. Is it very, very interesting because by the next time God speaks through a prophet, we actually have Edomites, the family of Herod the Great, Edomites ruling over the people of God. Shows how bad things have become for the people of God that they had the Edomites ruling over them. Now Edom itself was laid waste and it has never been a great civilization, but Herod because of his alliance with the Romans was able to rule over God's people and that shows how bad things are. How did things get so bad? Well we see the seeds of it. We understand the seeds of the problems that Jesus confronted in the Gospels here, 400 years earlier. in Malachi. What did Jesus do when he came into Jerusalem? Twice at the beginning of his ministry and again at the end of his ministry. He went to the temple and confronted the false, hypocritical, self-serving, profiteering worship that was set up by the priest. And here God is talking about this kind of problem Now the problem here is that they were bringing lame, sick, blind animals, and they were sacrificing them to God. And God says, you wouldn't even give that to your governor, your earthly human governor. How dare you give that to me? This is still the attitude of so many Christians today. So many Christians today have the attitude of I'm going to take care of pay my taxes, pay my bills, buy all the things I want, and then if I have anything left over, I'll put a little bit in the offering plate on Sunday. That's not honoring God. It's just not. God should have the first fruits and the best. He should have the first of our time. He should have the first of our money. He should have the first of our attention every day. He should have the first For a section He is the Lord. He's our Father. He's our Master. He's our Creator. Remember all those wonderful things we heard about Him in the Psalms yesterday? That should infect and affect the rest of our lives. But ultimately, they're not worshiping God wholeheartedly because they don't understand how much he loves them, and they don't understand how great he is and how worthy of worship he is. Now what's going to happen between Malachi's day and Jesus' day? is that the priests are going to say, okay, the problem is that people are offering impure animals, blind, lame, spotted. So let's make sure that we give them only pure animals, and they can buy them from us. And we'll make a little bit of money off of it. That was a solution that was worse than the problem. Because people were supposed to bring the best of their own. And it wasn't supposed to be to the priest's prophet. So very often, so often, right, God will confront us with a problem, a sin problem. And we respond to it in a way that even makes it worse. So God is worthy of the best of our worship. We shouldn't be weary of worship. Oh, I'm too tired to go to church this morning. Oh, I was out too late last night. And oh the kids have sports games this afternoon. Let's just stay home. It's just so tiresome to have to go to church. No, no, no, no. God is worthy of our worship. We should be there. We should give him the best of ourselves. Don't sleep in an extra 15 minutes in the morning and then skip your time with the Lord. Again, this isn't some legalistic guilt trip. It's rooted in, do you know how great God is and do you know how much He loves you? If you know those two things, how great God is, think about the Psalms from yesterday. And how much he loves you, he's chosen you, it should just be the overflow of our heart to say, yes, I'm going to give God the first, and yes, I'm going to give God the best. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are worthy. You're worthy of our worship. That's not just words. That's not just songs we sing. It's our lives. It's our very selves, our money, our time, our priorities, help us to give you the best because you are worthy of the best. We pray this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Malachi 1. Tomorrow we're going to continue on to Malachi 2, and I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.