We're calling this the marvelous and powerful grace of God. Isaiah 55, this is the Word of God. Come, everyone who thirsts. Come to the waters. And he who has no money, come, buy, and eat. Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread? And your labor for that which does not satisfy. Listen diligently to me, and eat what is good. And delight yourselves in rich food. Incline your ear and come to me here that your soul may live And I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my sure, steadfast love for David. Behold. I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples. Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know, and a nation that did not know you shall run to you Because of the Lord your God, and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you. Seek the Lord while he may be found call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth So are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there, but water the earth. making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that for which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it, for you shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace. The mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress, instead of the briar shall come up the myrtle, and it shall make a name for the Lord, an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off. Let's pray Oh Father, what a glorious word you have for us. Please speak to us by your Holy Spirit. Please apply this truth to our hearts. That we might see you, that we might know you, that we might answer your call and receive the grace we need. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Almost every day in our house, a call goes out, a gracious call, an invitation. And almost every day, this gracious call and invitation is ignored by at least one or more people in our house. The call is, dinner is ready, come and eat. Now think about everything that goes into making that call a reality. Money had to be earned. Meals had to be planned, groceries had to be bought, the food had to be lovingly and skillfully prepared for the call to go out. But why is the call ignored? Oftentimes it's responded to with a okay, I'll be there in a minute. Or, all right, I'll be there, just let me finish. The worst is that sometimes the call goes unheard. because audiobooks or music are being enjoyed in the privacy of headphones Isaiah 55 describes a call, but it's a call that's built upon the work and the preparation. Of Isaiah 53 and 54. Isaiah 53 describes the work that is done to make this call a reality. Where Jesus had to live a sinless life of perfect righteousness. He had to die on the cross in our place as a substitute. He then had to overcome death in the resurrection. It also has to continually be interceding for us now and coming again in glory to rescue us from sin and death and to give us our share in the eternal inheritance. So the work done to make the call a reality is in chapter 53. The benefits of that call. You know, a call to dinner has benefits too. You get nutrition, you get tastiness, you get time with your family at the table. The benefits are described in chapter 54 that we looked at last week. We get God's everlasting, steadfast love given to us in the covenant of peace, and that brings to us A joyful confidence and a healing comfort and a solid hope for the future. The blessings are real and they affect every aspect of our lives at the deepest levels The work's been done. The benefits are real. And so now is the call, the call to actually come and receive and enjoy the benefits of salvation in Jesus. The call's given, and then reasons are given to urge us to actually respond to the call and not just hear it. Not put it off, not ignore it because we're too distracted by other things, but actually hear and respond to the call. The opening verses tell us that this is an invitation to come and receive satisfying grace from God. Come, everyone who thirst, come to the waters. He who has no money, come by and eat. Come by wine and milk without money, without price, why do you spend your money on that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me and eat what is good. and delight yourselves in rich food, incline your ear, and come to me here, that your soul may live. This is a deeply satisfying grace. What is grace? This is one of those words we use a lot. We sang about it. We hear about it. What is it? Is it a thing? Grace refers to God's undeserved favor and kindness. His goodness to us in manifold ways that we don't deserve. And since we don't deserve anything from God, we can't put God into our debt. We can't make God owe us anything. Everything good that God gives us is grace. And yet the grace here is specifically the grace that accompanies salvation. It's freely given, but it's paid for. In our house, we have an unusual practice in that we do not charge our children for the dinner that they receive from us. You may have that differently, but it's freely given. But it was paid for by somebody else. God invites us to come without money. And by what we need for our souls, for our souls to be nourished. It's paid for by Jesus, as we heard about in Isaiah 53. The call, it's repeated four times in verse 1, the call come is repeated. Come, come, come, come. And then in verses 2 and 3, we have a repetition as well with variation. Listen. Incline your ear and hear. The way we receive This satisfying grace of God is by coming to Him and listening to Him, hearing His word, inclining our ear. That means leaning forward with uh with an expectant attention. We want to know what God has to say. And the imagery of eating and drinking is that we take it to ourselves and it becomes part of us. That happens by faith. We hear the Word of God with the intention that it should not just go in one ear and out the other, but that it should actually change the way we think. The way we feel, the way we speak, the way we act, it becomes part of us. It changes us If you go on an unhealthy diet for a long period of time, it will change you. And if you go on a healthy diet for a long period of time, it will change you. We're learning more and more about how our diet has an effect on almost every aspect of our lives. And that's important. What are you feeding your soul? What are you feeding your soul? Think about the metaphors God uses here. Receiving his word is like drinking water, wine, and milk, and it's like eating rich food. Water. Water when you're thirsty. You're dry, you're parched, is just so refreshing. It's what we need. Our souls get dry, they get parched, they get worn out. Unfortunately, sometimes when our souls are dry and thirsty and worn out, we reach for a cup of ashes instead of a cup of water. I imagine that if you were thirsty and I gave you a cup full of ashes, you would probably not be too appreciative. But sometimes that's what we do. We're like, you know, I feel worn out, I feel tired, I feel spent. I'm going to binge watch some show that has no real redeeming value until three o'clock in the morning. I'm not going to get enough sleep. I'm going to wake up tired tomorrow. It's like taking a cup of ashes when you're thirsty. God says my w my word is like waters living water for the thirsty. So wine. Wine brings satisfaction and pleasure. God tells us of his love for us, of his benefits, of his blessings. Milk. Milk is nutritious and it builds our bodies. Rich food satisfies our deep hunger and it sticks with us for a long time. God's word is all of this to us and more. And it's so different from the words of the world or from our own word. The words of the world, what are they? Sales pitches. Trying to get you to buy a product. Usually empty promises, selling you a lifestyle, selling you a status, selling you something. You've got to pay money for it, usually a lot of money for it, and it promises you something that it usually doesn't deliver on the back end. Drinking and eating, the Word of God, requires coming to God, requires attentiveness. We can't allow ourselves to be too distracted or too busy with other priorities or to be deaf to the Word of God because we're so full of other voices that we're listening to. The only thing that's a lower percentage than the number of professing Christians who attend church every week in America is the number of professing Christians who read their Bible on a regular basis. It's about a third of professing Christians, not Americans, about a third of professing Christians who are in church regularly. Over half of all evangelical Christians in America have no church affiliation whatsoever. They have no church they go to at all. And then it's about a third that are pretty regularly consistent. By the way, just a little deep dive on that number. It used to be. You know you're getting older when you say it used to be. It used to be that people who described themselves as active churchgoers went to church two to three times a week. Sunday morning, Sunday evening, Wednesday evening. Now a person who describes themselves as an active churchgoer goes to church two to three times a month Not even every Sunday morning. That's the shift that's happened. And then it's only about 10% of professing Christians who read their Bible outside of church on a regular basis more than once a week. No wonder we're hungry and thirsty. No wonder we're so easily distracted and deceived by the world. No wonder we're lacking in spiritual power and comfort. We're starving and we're eating Garbage. We've got to make it a priority to be eating the word. It's a gracious invitation. It's not a duty. It's not like, oh, I've got to force myself to read the Bible. Easy is the words of life. This is living water. This is wine. This is milk. This is rich food. And then we're reminded in verses three to five that the benefits we get from God's Word That come to us, they come to us through Christ. This is a Christ-centered and covenantal grace Picking up in the middle of verse 3, I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast sure love for David. Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples, behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know, and a nation that you did not know shall run to you because of the Lord your God and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you. As we listen to God's word, it points us to Christ. And to the covenant, the everlasting covenant, the covenant of peace we heard about last week in chapter 54. This everlasting covenant. The new covenant in his blood is what Jesus called it at the Last Supper We enter into and we receive satisfying, gracious benefits from God because of the covenant that God has made through Jesus Christ. This covenant is described As God's steadfast, sure love for David. I don't know if you noticed when I read it, I reversed those words on purpose. my sure steadfast love for David, because I was hoping that if I put together the words steadfast love, you might recognize that it's the word Hesed, and it is. It's faithful or sure chesed. That's what the covenant with David is. It's God's sure, that's reliable, that's faithful. Steadfast love, his loving kindness, his his goodness to us. It's in Christ Jesus. Nowhere else is it found. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. Jesus said in in John 7, which he stood up in the middle of the festival of Passover, and he said, Come to me, all you who are thirsty. And from you will flow fountains of living water. He's echoing this Isaiah 55 call and he's saying, I'm the one. Come to me. Two things we see about Jesus in this section that I want to note. First of all, he is the leader and commander of the people. You don't get the benefits and blessings of Jesus without following Jesus Now I'm not saying that you do enough good that you earn the blessings and benefits of Jesus, but as a practical reality, we're in a battle, we're in a war, he's the leader and the commander, and he says, follow me. And if we're not following him, we're not receiving the benefits and the blessings that he has for us. Jesus says, follow me. If you say Jesus is Lord, it means he's your Lord. He's your leader and commander. If you wander away from him in the battle, What happens? What happens if you go astray from following the orders of the commander in battle? Not good things, right? Might get your head blown off. And we see that happen. We see that happen. And it's it's a reminder to us: He's the leader, he's the commander. We follow him. And then second thing I want to note the focus on the nations in verse 5. You shall call a nation that does not know you, and a nation that does not know you shall come to you because of the Lord your God. This is reminding us again, as so often in Scripture, Christ is for the nations. It's when the light goes beyond Israel and to the nations. So we need to be part of that mission. The mission It's not only for us in our lives and our health and our neighborhood, but it's to get the gospel to the nations that do not know him yet, so they can come. Finally, at the end of verse 5, I want you to see this glorious thing. Why would the nations come? Because of the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you. You hear that? God, the Lord of hosts, the commander of the heavenly armies, the Holy One of Israel The creator and sustainer of the universe. Almighty God has glorified you in Christ Jesus. And as we are in Christ Jesus, who is the light of the world, Jesus says to us, You are the light of the world. And as we are set apart distinctly by Jesus, we become the salt of the earth. We are glorified because Christ in us is the hope of glory and Christ in us is what the world needs. He's glorified us In Christ, so that we can bring to the nations something nothing in this world can offer. First of all, we need to just rejoice in that. I mean, who am I that the God of the universe has chosen to glorify me? It's all by grace, it's all for his glory ultimately in the end, but I get to be glorified in Christ as Christ is glorified in me. Rejoice in that. And the second thing is If we've been given this most glorious treasure to be in us, to give to the world Let's not give the world lesser or hide it under a basket. Let's not be content to just talk politics or sports. And I love sports, and politics ain't worth talking about. But like let's not let's give people Jesus through a life that reflects him in our words and our actions. The third thing we see, it's a satisfying grace, it's a Christ-centered covenantal grace, it's a forgiving and a cleansing grace. We see this in verses 6 through 9. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion on him. and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts God says he's going to have compassion and he's going to abundantly pardon those who come to him, but as we come to him, we have to be forsaking our wicked ways. And our unrighteous thoughts, because God's ways are higher and better than our natural, selfish, foolish, sinful ways. And so to graciously receive this compassion, this pardon, we have to turn from these self-serving, self-seeking ways and turn to Him. Now you might wonder, well do I really need to repent? If it's all by grace and if Jesus did all the work, why do I need to repent in order to receive these gifts and these blessings? Can't I just confess faith in Jesus, say that he's my Lord, and continue to live any way I want to live? Well let me ask you a question. Can you walk in two different directions at the same time? If I told you, get up from your chair right now and go out both of these doors at the same time. Can you do it? It's not possible. God says, I have food for you to eat. That means you don't eat the other food. He says, I have water for you to drink. That means you don't drink the ashes. He says, my ways are higher than your ways. Seek my ways. That means you don't seek the ways of the world. Jesus said, no one can serve two masters. He will either love the one and hate the other, or he will despise the one and be devoted to the other. You cannot serve both God and money. Notice what Jesus says. No one can and you cannot. For years I read that passage as no one should and you should not Like you really shouldn't be materialistic and following Jesus. You shouldn't do that. But it's not what Jesus said. He didn't say should. He said can't and cannot. It's not possible. I learned this lesson when in one of my jobs, once upon a time, I had multiple bosses. Ever been in a job where you had multiple bosses? Who didn't necessarily communicate with each other about what they were asking you to do And then you realize, oh, I can either do what this boss is asking me to do and put off what this other boss is asking, or I can prioritize what this boss is asking and put off what the other boss is asking. Because you can't do both at the same time. And that's the way it is. First Timothy Paul says, those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. Again, it's wanting to be rich and the love of money. It's not necessarily you can't have wealth and follow Jesus, but you can't love your wealth and you can't live for your wealth and live for Jesus. And that you can substitute wealth with anything else, your pleasure. Your pride, your ego, lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life. So here's here here I'll give you a menu of options. You can have, you can live for the lust of the flesh Or you can live for the lust of the eyes, or you can live for the pride of life, or for any combination of those three things, or you can live for Jesus. But you can't do both. You can't say, I want to live for all the things the world has to offer and pay lip service to Jesus. It doesn't work. It doesn't work. And why would we why would we want to settle? If if what God says is true, if if He's if He's this compassionate, if He's this gracious, if He has this kind of future planned for us that comes at the end of this chapter, why would we want to go after the things of the world? Now another question that comes in is when you have a sensitive conscience, you might think, well, I am following Jesus, but I still sin. Yes, you do. I still do get distracted and stumble. Yes, you do. And I do, and all of us do. But here's how it works. If you're following Jesus He reaches down and picks you up every time you fall. He goes after you and he calls you back every time you start to go astray if you're following him. And sometimes we think, well, I fell down, it's like falling down a flight of stairs. If I fall down, I fall all the way down to the very bottom, and I have to get all the way back up again. When I was uh kids Kids, listen to this. When I was your age, don't you love it when adults do that? When I was your age, but I would say from the time I was nine until the time I was fourteen. So for that five-year period of time. So raise your hand if you're between the ages of nine and fourteen. Okay. So when I was your age I must have asked Jesus to come into my heart and save me, I don't know, a thousand times. I don't even think that's an exaggeration. Because I thought that if Jesus was in my heart and I was following him, that I would not sin. And uh well I was the youngest of four kids, so I had two older brothers and an older sister, and it was mostly their fault that I sinned. Not true. I still had a sinful heart. And so I would blow it and I would think, oh, that means I have to start all over again. This time I'll ask Jesus into my heart and I'll really mean it. And I went to Christian summer camp and I went to some revival meetings. I was in a Baptist sort of church environment. And I walked the aisle and prayed the prayer multiple times because I thought, oh, I've got to start over again because I blew it. No. If you're following Jesus and you blow it, he picks you up right where you are And you keep following him. You don't start all the way over. He picks you up right where you are. He loves you. He knew you were gonna fall before you did. And he leads us. He leads us by his grace. His grace is not only satisfying, Christ-centered, covenantal, and forgiving, pardoning, cleansing, but it's also powerful. Verses ten to eleven tell us that as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there, but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. God's word always succeeds. Even when it brings judgment, it's still succeeding. But God's purpose in sending his word is to bless his people with spiritual food. and with seed for sowing into the lives of others. He says, just as the rain and the snow come, what do they do? They give seed to the sower and bread to the eater. This is what the Word of God is for us. The Word of God is for us seed for sowing and bread for eating We're to eat it for ourselves and be nourished by it and strengthened and encouraged, and then we're to sow that seed into the lives of others. Now, as we do so, we're sowing the seed into the lives of others There's going to be mixed results. Jesus told us the parable of the sower to help us understand this. Some of that seed is going to fall on a path, on hard ground. The person's not even going to pay any attention whatsoever. Satan's going to come along and snatch that up. It's not going to go anywhere Other seeds gonna fall. All my Sunday school kids should know the answers to this, right? Some of the seed is gonna fall. Anybody who was in Sunday school, right? We did this parable a few weeks ago. Some of the seed's going to fall on rocky ground. It'll spring up right away, but it won't have much depth. Shallow. Anytime persecution comes, it'll wither. Some of it's going to be sown among thorns, and it'll look like it's growing. It'll look like it's doing well, but then The cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches will choke out the word and it won't be fruitful, but some will fall on good soil. And it will bring impressive results, 30 or 60 or 100 times what was sown. One of the things, like most of us, if we've studied any church history or been a Christian for any period of time, there's certain famous people from church history that we know about, that we've heard about. But what's interesting is, have we heard about or do we know about the people who brought them to the Lord? Right? The people who were used by God To bring Charles Furgeon to the Lord, to bring John Wesley to the Lord Sometimes you can hear their stories, and they're usually unknown, obscure people who were just being faithful in what God called them to do. And God, maybe they sowed seed into a thousand lives. We had one uh Bruce File has preached here uh a few times. It's been a number of years since he preached here, but um A good friend, dear brother. He grew up as a missionary kid in India, northern India, where it's really, really hard. The ground is very hard in northern India. And he and his family, their musical family, every week they would go out to a local market and they would sing music and they would hand out tracks. Every week. And they did this for his dad, who was a professor at the seminary that was there in northern India, did this every week for like 35 years. I think it was a Thursday, every Thursday, 35 years. Sing songs about Jesus, hand out tracts about Jesus. Never saw one person come to the Lord. But several years ago, got a report from the seminary that's still there that in many of the smaller villages and towns around that market town There were Bible studies of believers, and nobody knows exactly where they came from. They're sowing seed. They're sowing seed. And maybe God uses that. We can be confident that God will always accomplish his purposes according to his word, and that just as his word nourishes us. We can use it to sow seed into the lives of others. Finally, in verses 12 and 13, we see that God's grace, his marvelous, powerful grace, is also eternally joyful. For you shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace. The mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress, instead of the briar shall come up the myrtle, and it shall make a name for the Lord, an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off. Now this might seem like some strange imagery. We've got mountains and hills breaking forth into singing. We've got trees of the field clapping their hands. What is that? Well, this is the way the Bible describes the response of creation to the coming of Christ. If you look back with me at Psalm 96 and Psalm 98, you can see this language here. Psalm 96 ends with this: Let the heavens be glad and let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar, and all that fills it, let the field exult. and everything in it, then shall all the trees of the forest sing for joy before the Lord, for he comes, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness. And then Psalm ninety-eight ends this way Let the sea roar and all that fills it, the world and those who dwell in it, let the rivers clap their hands. And the hills sing together for joy before the Lord, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness and the peoples with equity. Creation is going to rejoice when Jesus comes again. Romans 8 gives us the explanation of this. It tells us that creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of the one who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption, and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. And then it goes on to say not only the creation, but we ourselves grown inwardly. We will go out. En joy, we will be led forth in peace, and all of creation will rejoice with us in that day. What does that mean? Well, to go out and to be led forth is language that speaks of being freed. from exile, freed from bondage, and be able to return to the promised land. Our promised land is The new heavens and the new earth, where we're going to be in resurrection bodies with the Lord forever. Our promised land will come when Christ returns. We will be Going out from this fallen existence, we will be led forth in peace. Our bodies, which are so weak and frail, subject to strokes and cancer, our souls which are so easily corrupted by sin and let it all that will be purified and perfected in the twinkling of an eye. At the last trumpet, and we shall be changed. Glorified. We shall be in our human nature, even what Christ is now in his human nature. Perfect, undying, unsuffering bodies, and sinless, righteous, holy souls. Forever. Can you imagine? That's what's coming. That is what's coming. And if that's what's coming, Satan and the enemies of God's people vanquished and destroyed, we all sit down together at the wedding supper of the Lamb, this victory feast where you won't count the calories because you're not going to get fat. Can I get an Amen? It's coming. And all creation will rejoice. And part of what we do in spending time with the Word of God is to remind ourselves that that is what is true and eternal and real. This world is temporary and passing and fading and ever-changing. What is true, what is eternal, what is most real is the world to come. It puts everything into perspective for us. So the Apostle Paul could write in 2 Corinthians 4, for this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. As we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. This light momentary affliction. What is Paul talking about light momentary affliction? Well If you want to look with me, it's in Second Corinthians. He gives us a list of some of the things that he suffered. In 2 Corinthians 11, starting in verse 24, he says, Five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes less one. Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, and left for dead, by the way. Three times I was shipwrecked, a night and a day I was adrift at sea on frequent journeys in danger from rivers, danger from robbers, danger from my own people, danger from Gentiles, danger in the city, danger in the wilderness. danger at sea, danger from false brothers, in toil and hardship, through many a sleepless night, in hunger and thirst. often without food, in cold and exposure, and apart from other things, there is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all the churches. Now, as a pastor, I just read the words all the churches and I just think, how? Because the daily pressure of the anxiety of being a pastor for one church If I didn't have Jesus would be enough to just make me want to throw in the towel some days. All the churches. And that's like you give me two things off of this list, and I ain't calling them light momentary afflictions. But he did. How could he call light momentary afflictions? Because they are in the light of eternity. In the light of eternity, it's just a light and small and passing thing. And so when we spend time saturating our minds in the Word of God, we won't expect life in this world to bring us eternal joy and deep satisfaction. We won't we'll keep our expectations realistic. You know, I'm a Maryland basketball fan and they look pretty good right now. But it's okay if they lose in the first round of the NCAA tournament again. I won't like it, but that's not my hope, right? That's not it's not even close to my hope. And so we keep things in perspective. We keep our hopes realistic. We keep our our eternal hopes Where they belong and where they'll never be destroyed, will they never be disappointed? This is what Jesus told us to do when he invited us. He said, Don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroyed, where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust destroy, and where thieves don't break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Treasures in heaven, and a heart set on heaven, will not be lost or ever disappointed The trials and the sufferings of this life are temporary. The joys and the pleasures of this life, if they are received by faith as gifts from God, They're like the appetizers before the main course. You know, the wonderful moments, the sweet moments, the beautiful moments. They're like a little bite from the table of the wedding supper of the Lamb. And we can look forward to an eternity of that. But the struggles against sin and temptation that we fight with are worth it because Christ is fighting with us, for us. Against our enemy, and he's already won the victory and already guaranteed our victory. All of this comes from the grace of God in Jesus Christ, and it can be found nowhere else. We find it, though, as we feast upon his word. So we need to come and eat. We need to make it our daily habit to eat And drink. And be satisfied with Jesus. Let's respond. Let's not be too distracted. Let's not be too busy. Let's hear and let's see answer and get this satisfying and forgiving and strengthening grace that we need. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you so much for your son Jesus. He has given us everything in himself. He secured it all. He did the hard work. We're blessed to be called to belong to him forever Help us to answer that call, to seek your face, to come to you, to turn away from the world and our own selfish ways, dig deep into your word. Abide in Christ, His words abiding in us, that we might bear much fruit, that we might be deeply satisfied, that we might have seed to sow into the lives of others By your grace and for your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen