Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. It's our 40th week together, our second day. We're in John 20, great resurrection chapter. Today we're going to be looking at Mary Magdalene's encounter with the resurrected Jesus. So we're asking the question of what makes Mary Magdalene's testimony of the resurrection so remarkable? Because it is. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts. by the power of your Holy Spirit, that we might see not only how Mary Magdalene is remarkable, but even more so how Jesus is amazing. That we might be moved to love him more and follow him more closely. In Jesus' name. Amen. John 20, verses 11 to 18. But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb. And as she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb, and she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet. They said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary She turned and said to him in Aramaic, Raboni, which means teacher. Jesus said to her, do not cling to me. For I have not yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father, to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, I have seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her. Over the forty days between the time when Jesus rose again from the dead and he ascended back into heaven to sit at the right hand of God the Father, he appeared on several different occasions. And to a total of over 515 different people. 500 people at one time. And some of them one at a time, like Mary Magdalene one at a time. Peter got a private encounter with Jesus, we know we don't really have that recorded in the Gospels. The two men on the road uh to Emmaus was two people and then, you know, the eleven disciples in the upper room. So he appears to many people. But this is the first, and in many ways, probably the most remarkable Jesus' appearance to Mary Magdalene in the Garden of the Tomb is surprising. It's probably the most compelling of all the appearances. Why? Why? Well, first of all, because Mary was a woman Women were not really respected in the ancient world. They did not enjoy the same rights as men. Their testimony was generally not admissible in court. And yet Jesus chose to appear first to a woman. and to send her to be the first witness of his resurrection to the male disciples who would not see him until hours and hours later that day in the evening. And Those disciples didn't believe her testimony. We know that from the two disciples on the road to Emmaus in Luke 24 They took it as most men in the ancient world took the report of a woman as kind of a wild tale. So she was a woman But secondly, more clearly, more compellingly, Mary was a woman with a troubled past, not just any old woman. She was a woman from whom Jesus had exercised seven demons. We don't know the details of what those demons had done to Mary Magdalene, but there's speculation. But we don't need to speculate. Imagine being possessed by seven demons. She had a dark and oppressed past. So, really what better person to be the first to witness the victory of Jesus over the powers of hell than someone who had suffered for years under the very torment of those powers of hell? Jesus had freed her from them, but now he has defeated them. He has crushed them under his resurrection feet. Third, what's remarkable about this encounter is it shows us how clearly Mary was not expecting the resurrection. This account shows us how entirely unexpected the resurrection was to the early disciples. Skeptics sometimes claim that the disciples were superstitious and gullible, and that the resurrection appearances might have been a kind of wish fulfillment. But ancient people knew as clearly as we do that dead people do not rise again. They were not expecting to see Jesus again. They saw him die by Roman crucifixion. They saw him buried in a tomb, and the tomb sealed, and soldiers posted. They were not expecting the resurrection, which is very compelling evidence for the truth of the resurrection. And fourth, Mary didn't even recognize Jesus at first. Mary was was deeply distressed. She was crying. She was desperately wondering what had happened to her master even after she saw the angels in the tomb. She still thought someone had stolen the body. Even when she sees Jesus, she thinks he's the gardener of the garden around the tomb. She thought perhaps he had taken the body away to a different place. For all these reasons, when Jesus speaks Mary's name and she recognizes him, it's the most wonderful news and a most remarkable transformation of her life. The disciples are also transformed by the words that Jesus says to Mary Magdalene. Go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father. To my God and your God. This is what the resurrection of Jesus does for all who believe in him. We now have the same relationship to God the Father that Jesus has. Just as God the Father is the Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, so now by adoption he is our Father. And he is our God. And that transforms our lives as deeply and as profoundly as Mary Magdalene's life was transformed on that first resurrection day. Isn't that wonderful? Let's pray. Father, thank you for the power of Jesus over the death, over death and hell. Lord Jesus, thank you for conquering all of our enemies. Crushing sin, crushing death, crushing hell, crushing the powers of hell, and then giving us the gift of sharing in that victory. A victory we did not earn, but we share in as Grace from you. Thank you for that. And please grow our faith. Strengthen our faith That we might live by faith in the confident, joyful reality of your resurrection. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, thanks so much for joining me tomorrow. We're going to continue in John chapter 20. I hope these devotionals are a blessing to you. We're coming close to the end, the end of kind of insight, I think at the end of next week, if I remember my schedule correctly. or sometime next week, I think we're gonna be wrapping it up. But not that many days left. I hope it was a blessing to you. We'll be doing something different after this. Um I will let you know when that time comes, but it's really been years that we've been in the Bible. First it was every day of the week for three years to get through the whole Bible. Now it's been five days a week. So something different is coming. And keep your eyes open for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.