Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill President. We're here in our fifth week of working through these 129 questions and answers that come to us out of the Reformation from 1563. You might think, man, what could be more irrelevant to our life in America? America in twenty twenty-six than a series of a hundred and thirty questions and answers from fifteen sixty-three. Well, it's good evidence. that the same God offers the same gospel comfort to the same kind of people and has been doing so for hundreds of years because in these questions and answers we have unpacked for us The biblical doctrine of the gospel. And we have a key to gospel comfort. As this whole catechism begins with a very famous first question, and that is, what is your only comfort in life and in life? And so after telling us that it is that we are not our own, but we belong body and soul in life and in death to our our faithful Savior Jesus Christ, after telling us that in the first question and answer and unpacking that, it then is walking us through the gospel from the first time. From guilt through grace to gratitude. Well, we're still fairly early. We're on question number 11 today. So we're still learning more about our guilt. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we go to him now. Father in heaven, we are your people called to faith in Jesus Christ by your Holy Spirit, working through your word. Would you please bless our time together as we look into now the eleventh question of the Heidelberg Catechism and we look into your word. Would you teach us by your Spirit and grow us in knowledge, understanding, wisdom, and gospel comfort? We pray this in Jesus' name and for his glory in our lives and in your church. Amen. Alright, so gospel comfort. Question number 11 is on tap for today, but as we typically have been doing, we're going to review first. We're going to go back to question 10. Talking about our disobedience and our apostasy. We said that word means a falling away. So Adam fell in the garden, and that was really the responsibility of all humanity because he was our federal head, our representative, and also we would have done the same thing had we been in his place. And so will God allow such disobedience and apostasy to go unpunished? Certainly not He's terribly angry with our original sin, as well as our actual sins, therefore he will punish them. by a just judgment, both now and eternally, as he has declared, cursed is every one who does not continue to do everything written in the book of the law. And, you know, just yesterday we heard from Romans 7 this same truth, that the law can't save you, but the law tells you of your condemnation. It drives home your guilt. So we come to question eleven. But is God not also merciful? Right? God's not just just. He's not just holy. He's also merciful, isn't he? God is indeed merciful, but he is also just. His justice requires that sin committed against the Most High Majesty of God also be punished with the most severe, that is, with everlasting punishment of body and soul. That's what we're looking at today. God is merciful, but he is also just Very often believers or unbelievers will make this tragic mistake. This crucial error. And they will pit God's attributes against each other. Well, yeah, God is just, but He's also merciful, and mercy triumphs over justice. Well Yeah, but don't manipulate Scripture to try to sort of wiggle out of what God has clearly stated. God's mercy, God's justice, God's holiness, God's righteousness, God's grace, God's goodness. are all absolute, they're all perfect, they're all unchangeable. And so mercy will be mercy, but it must be a just mercy. And that means that the sin committed against the Most High Majesty of God must also be punished with the most severe, that is, with everlasting punishment of body and soul. Here's Exodus 20, verses 5 and 6. You shall not bow down to them or serve them. This is talking about graven images that we might make. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me But showing steadfast love, to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. See, this is the character of God. We see tension here. We should, at least from a human perspective, see tension from visiting the iniquity, but showing steadfast love, justice, mercy. How are these things reconciled? And this is where the catechism is leading us, but we can't we can't feel the tension deeply enough. We can't understand the absolute necessity for the cross unless we really grasp These truths. God is a jealous God. He's not jealous of us. He's jealous for us. He's jealous for our hearts. We were made by Him and for Him We are his and we are to belong to him. And yet our rebellion against him, in the f in this case Bowing down and serving created things rather than the Creator. We're all guilty of it. We have all given our hearts to created things rather than the Creator, and so we are all guilty. And that is where we stand, before God apart from Christ. Hebrews 10 says this about rejecting Christ. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has trampled underfoot the Son of God? and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of Grace For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, and again the Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Again, this is New Testament. Sometimes, again, believers and unbelievers have this distorted view of the Bible. Sometimes they pit the attributes of God against each other. Sometimes they pit the Old Testament and the New Testament against each other. But this is a New Testament text that said it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And just as it was Serious, gravely serious, to set aside the law of Moses is even more, even more, how much more, how much worse is it to trample underfoot the Son of God? to profane the blood of the covenant, the shed blood of the Son of God, which is the answer to our need. If we reject it, there remains no answer and no hope for us, is what Hebrews is saying. God's made a way. God's made a new and living way through the body of Jesus, who's entered heaven on our behalf. If we set him aside, if we disregard him, we have no hope before a living God. And our third scripture for today is Matthew 25, verses 44 to 46. Then they will also answer. This is the final judgment. This is the separation of the sheep and the goats. These are the goats. The ones who did not have true and saving faith, although they said they were believers, they professed to be believers, and this has been the test of it. Then they also will answer, saying, Lord, when did we see you? Hungry? or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister to you Then he will answer them, saying, Truly I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. Eternal punishment. Jesus was clearer than anyone about the eternal nature of the punishment that awaits those who reject The free offer of the gospel, and who decide that they're going to stand before God on the basis of their own attempted righteousness, on the basis of their own record of right and wrong. You neglect Christ, either by uh trampling underfoot the Son of God, profaning the blood of the covenant, or ignoring Christ. And not serving him, if you neglect Christ, if you don't belong to Christ, you'll stand before God. Everyone will stand before God. But you'll be standing before God on the record of your own life. On the basis of the record of your own life, God's going to have to say, you've committed sin against the Most High Majesty of God. And there's no solution outside of Jesus. There's no redemption outside of Jesus. And so there's the most severe, that is, everlasting punishment of body and soul. In hell. That is real. That is eternally and absolutely real We need to take this to heart. For us as believers, for those who know the solution, who know the blood of Christ, have not trampled it underfoot, but have but have believed and trusted in the righteousness of Jesus. This should make us so grateful. Lord, you saved me from this. This is what I deserve. This is what is due to me. It ought to make us also all the more diligent in pursuing the means of grace so that we Don't neglect and don't fall away and don't have a shallow and hypocritical profession of faith, but that we earnestly desire fellowship with Christ and Obedience to him as our good shepherd, as our captain of our salvation. But for the unbeliever, this tells us what needs to be heard, which is The there's a saying that some people have, it's like, oh, of course God will forgive me, that's his job. Well, it's also his job to punish you. And his justice in punishing you will not be set aside. It has to be resolved justly. And the only place where that could ever happen is at the cross of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, there is no one who can save us from the wrath we deserve but your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we deserve that wrath. We are all idol worshipers. We are all disobedient to the majesty of the most high God. We have all offended a most holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. And it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Let us not fall into the hands of your justice. But let us be cleansed by the blood of Christ and covered in his righteousness that we might come justly into your mercy. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, now we are going to respond to God as we always have in these catechism devotionals with worship. We're going to sing Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. The worst days Thy strength indeed is more, child of weakness, watch and cry, find in me thine all in. Quell'anno va. Whereby thy grace you claim, I'll wash my garments white in the blood of Calvary's land. She does pay it all to him, I own that's a crimson thing. He washed in white as no. See that thine, thine power line alone Can change the leopard's nose and know the heart Prince and say that you keep watching white as well. I decided come to be She could try my soul to say, My lips shall still be. Jesus faded away. All to him I yell. Now that's a crimson stain. He was you might have we don't pay it all to him I owe And now that the question thing you want, you are. Jesus faded all to him I owe And now that's a crimson stain he was Herewiders, no, that one that goes.