And Psalm 32 is a maskile of David, which probably means it's an instruction psalm, a psalm of teaching. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, and my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer, Sayylah. I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Salah Therefore, let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Surely in the rush of great waters they shall not reach him You are a hiding place for me. You preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance, Selah. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. Be not like a horse or a mule without understanding, which must be Curved with bit and bridle, or it will not stay near you. Many are the sorrows of the wicked. But Steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the Lord. Be glad in the Lord, and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, gracious God, what a wonderful psalm, what a wonderful gift you have given to us in Psalm 32. Such blessing Such comfort, such strength and encouragement. Help us to receive it by faith. Help us to understand it. Help us to believe it. Help us to live our lives in response to your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And you may be seated. What makes your soul sing and shout for joy? What brings you the deepest satisfaction and the highest delight? I know we can think of superficial things like chocolate, a good cup of coffee. You know, our favorite team winning a big game, a really fun movie with a good ending, or a really satisfying conclusion to a book we've been reading. But what about things that go much deeper than that? What about things that truly enrich our souls eternally? Today we come to Psalm 32, and Psalm 32 opens with a double pronouncement of blessedness. How blessed? Blessed. is the one. Twice, verse 1 and verse 2. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. A double blessing. It ends with a stirring call to be glad, to shout for joy. And it's the blessing of being forgiven. of receiving a free and a full forgiveness from wicked, vile sin. And one way we can remember this double blessing is that there is a double benefit to being truly forgiven and knowing that you are truly, freely, forever forgiven There's an objective benefit, and there's a subjective benefit. The objective benefit is that before God we are no longer guilty. That's what we read about in Psalm 130, and we sang about it in Psalm 130. If you, O Lord, should count iniquity, O Lord, who could stand? But there is forgiveness with you that you may be feared. And we see, blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. There's a subjective reality. We stand on our own, in our own merit, in our own skin, right? Some people say I just want to stand before God on my own two feet. Really Because if you stand before God on your own two feet with the record of your life, you might think, oh, when he weighs my life in the balance, the good will outweigh the bad. Really? Define good Who gets to define that? Well I'm better than a lot of people I know. Oh, well so is God grading on a curve? Beth was a biology major in college, and uh she took some hardcore science classes, biology classes and chemistry classes And I don't know how many of you were science majors in college. You remember some of those hardcore biology and chemistry tests, but sometimes you take a test and the class average is a 60 It's like, and so what does everybody say? When the class averages of sixty, the question then becomes, I wonder what the curve is going to be. Right? Clearly the professor is not going to fail the whole class, so there's going to be some kind of curb applied to this grade, to this test, so that we'll all get a decent grade. Is that the way God works? Well, you're all a bunch of failures, miserable losers. I can't just flush all of you down, so we gotta have some sort of curve. No, that's not how God creates. And that's why Saul 130 says, if you Lord, count iniquity, who could stand? Nobody. We're all guilty So there's an objective blessing of forgiveness in that the Lord counts no iniquity. We're pronounced, not guilty We're pronounced justified before a holy, holy, holy God. That's an objective blessing. But there's also a subjective blessing, because there are fewer things that bring us more trouble than a troubled conscience. When we are weighed down with guilt and shame, it eats away at us inside. And David vividly describes that experience in Psalm 32. And so knowing that we are freely and fully forgiven cleanses us in our conscience and sets us free To know that we are sinners, and yet because we are fully, freely, forever forgiven, we sing and we even shout for joy. Most people think that David wrote Psalm 32 after he wrote Psalm 51, which he wrote after his sin with Bathsheba. So when I say this is forgiveness for vile Despicable sin, horrible sin. It is. It's hard to think of a worse sin even from a human perspective than what David committed with Bathsheba and against Uriah the Hittite. What a great name, by the way, Uriah. He's the only he's the only person who's not a direct ancestor of Jesus who's named in the genealogy in Matthew I. You guys probably know. So, what did David do? We know the story. His army is outfighting. He should be outfighting with his army, but he's being lazy. He's not taking his responsibility seriously. He's staying back home. He's being self-indulgent. And he's out and he looks over at the rooftop next door and he sees Bathsheba bathing on her roof in the middle of the day. Don't know what she was doing, bathing on her roof in the middle of the day. That's a different question, but He commits adultery with her, she gets pregnant, he then decides, I gotta cover this up. So he invites Uriah back from battle and says, Hey, give me a report on how things are going with the army in the field. Uriah was one of David's mighty men. He was one of David's closest and most loyal warriors. But he notices that night, Uriah doesn't go in and sleep with his wife. He sleeps outside of his home on the ground. David says, What's up, Uriah? What's going on? He says, How can I go in and enjoy the comforts of my bed and the pleasures of my wife when the army's in the field? Now David had to feel a real sting of guilt in that But instead he s he gets him drunk. He invites him to a feast, gives him lots of wine, then sends him home. He's like, that'll that'll get through his high principles. No. He still refused to sleep with his wife. He goes back to battle. So David says, What do I do now? And he arranges to have Uriah killed in battle, so that he can take Bathsheba into his house as his wife and pretend that this baby is his. I guess he didn't think people could count to nine back then But that's when he wrote, he was confronted a year later, because that's it's after the baby's born, that he's confronted. He's confronted by Nathan the prophet Who comes in to confront David in his sin. And David openly confesses. You can read about it in 2 Samuel 12. David says to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. So Nathan replies, The Lord has taken away your sin. You are not going to die. Now there are still consequences for David's sin, but just that quick. David says, I have sinned against the Lord, and the Lord's response is, The Lord has taken away your sin. You are not going to die. David deserved to die. Under the law of God, which David was the chief judge, he was the chief justice of the land. as well as the leader of the army, under the law of God, both adultery and murder were capital offenses. So he had a double death sentence hanging over his head. I wonder if that's why we get a double blessed At the beginning of Psalm 32. But God says, taking away your sin, you're not going to die. David's immediately forgiven. David is not spared from the consequences of his actions. Sometimes we get those things confused. Sometimes because we are suffering consequences from our sin, we still carry a load of guilt and shame about our sin. But that's not what we are supposed to do. We're supposed to believe God for His gospel promises that we are fully and freely forgiven in Christ, even as we accept the consequences of our sin. So David writes Psalm fifty one, we know Psalm fifty one was written right after that because it tells us in the title. We don't know for sure that Psalm thirty-two was written after that because it doesn't give us that information in the title. However, in Psalm 51, David says, I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will be turned to you. So he makes a promise in Psalm 51 to the Lord, I will teach transgressors your ways. And the title here is that this is a masculine of David, a teaching psalm. So I I think, with most people, David then shortly thereafter sat down and wrote Psalm 32. So it's to instruct us so we can learn from David's experience. We can be comforting, we can be assured, and we can be given the ground for the greatest joy that we can experience in life and in eternity. Because the main point of Psalm 32 is this. Kids, if you want to write this down. What's the main point of Psalm 32? It's this. Being completely forgiven by God is a tremendous blessing that should cause us to rejoice greatly and also confess our sin quickly. Being completely forgiven by God is a tremendous blessing that should cause us to do two things, to rejoice greatly and to confess our sin quickly. Let's see what David learned. The blessedness of forgiveness. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. and in whose spirit there is no deceit. This is a double proclamation of a triple blessing. There's there's sets of triplets in this psalm. It's one of the things I love about this psalm is that we get sets of three in the way sin is named, but also in the way that forgiveness is named. So sin is named three ways: transgression, sin, iniquity. And forgiveness is named three ways. Forgiven, covered, and not counted or not imputed. It's a triple proclamation of a uh uh it's a double proclamation of a triple blessing that that transgression is forgiven, that sin is covered, and that iniquity is not counted. And what's amazing about this blessed is the way the one and blessed is the man here is that this is actually the first Pronouncement of blessing, the first benediction, the first blessing pronounced in the Psalms since Psalm 1. So you get Psalm 1 and then you get more than a fifth of the way through the Psalter before you get another blessing. And there's a connection between the two blessings, the blessing at the opening of Psalm 1 and the blessing at the opening of Psalm 32. And it's a great way to see Christ. So keep your spot in Psalm 32. Flip back to Psalm 1. And look at how Psalm 1 begins. Psalm 1. Blessed is the man who walks not. in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. In Psalm 1, we have a triple proclamation, but it's a triple proclamation of righteousness, of sinless righteousness. There's a man, and he's blessed, because he doesn't walk in the counsel of the wicked, he doesn't stand in the way of sinners, he doesn't sit in the seat of scoffers. It doesn't do any of those things, but instead he delights in the law of the Lord. So Psalm 1 is a is a blessing on the righteous man. But Psalm 32 is a blessing on the forgiven man. And here's where we see Christ. Christ fulfilled Psalm 1. Christ is the blessed man of Psalm 1 who was sinlessly righteous. He fulfilled Psalm 1 so that we could receive the double blessing of Psalm 32. Because instead of counting our iniquity, the Lord counts Christ's righteousness. as being ours. So we get the blessing of Psalm 32, and God remains a just and holy God because Jesus fulfilled Psalm 1 and it's given to us as a gift. Let's talk for a minute about the three ways that sin is talked about here. Transgressions. Transgression is a is a willful violation of God's commands. It's when God says, don't do something and we do it anyway. For instance, we we take God's name in vain. God says, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, and we do it anyway. We take the Lord's name in vain. And we know it's wrong, but we do it Or God tells us to not commit adultery, and we commit adultery anyway, and we can do that with our minds. Jesus said, if you look at a woman with lustful intent, you've committed adultery in your heart. You can do it with your eyes, you can do it with your heart, with your mind, as well as with your body. Or God commands us not to covet. You shall not covet. Do not covet your neighbor's corvette. It's the modern English version. Do not covet your neighbors. Corvette, I'm guessing most of you haven't coveted your neighbor's donkey, right? But Do not covet your neighbor's Jeep gladiator truck. Not that anyone here has one of those that I would covet Don't covet. And we can even joke about it because we do it, right? We're like, I know I'm not supposed to, but I do it anyway. That's a transgression. God says don't do it, and we do it anyway. That's a transgression Sin is missing the mark or falling short of what God calls us to and commands us to be. So God commands us to love him with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and he commands us to love our neighbor as ourselves He commands husbands, husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. So anytime we fall short of that call of love, love for God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. Love for your neighbor as yourself. Husbands, loving your wives, wives, loving your husbands. We fall short, that's sin. Boy. I fall short all the time. Everyone falls short all the time The other ways we talk about transgressions and sin is we talk about transgressions are sins of commission, where we commit an act that is forbidden by God and sin is a sin of omission where we fail to do what God requires. And then iniquity is the wickedness, the twistedness of sin. It's the moral and spiritual defilement that sin comes from and brings into our lives. All of us have sinned and continue to sin in all three of these ways. But the good news is that God forgives transgressions. But God doesn't just forgive transgressions, He also covers sin. And he doesn't just forgive transgressions and cover sin, he also refuses to count our iniquity against us. Instead, he counted it all against Christ on the cross That is a blessing worth singing and shouting about. The fourth thing that's pronounced blessed here is a spirit free from deceit. You might read that and think, well, that doesn't seem to line up with the other things. But you know, it's also something that God gives us by His grace, and it's actually a prerequisite for the forgiveness. David says, later I confessed my transgression to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. How did he come to the point of confessing his transgression to the Lord? Well, Nathan confronted him. Well, what did that do when Nathan confronted him? It swept away the cloudy mist of self-deceit. that had settled in in David's soul. The spirit free from deceit is a spirit that says, you know what? I see it for what it is. I'm not lying to myself. I'm not covering it up. I'm not kidding myself. We do this all the time. We sin and then we almost immediately justify ourselves. Well, you made me angry. You shouldn't have said that to me. Well, why is she wearing that then if she doesn't want guys to lust after her Well, these people, these politicians, they just make me so angry. Really? Politicians in Washington have the power to make you angry And then make you say things that you know you shouldn't say or do things you know you should say. They really have that power over your soul. We justify ourselves by making these excuses, and that is self-deceit. And so the blessing that the Holy Spirit brings is conviction. Because conviction removes that self-deceit, and we have to say what David said, I have sinned against the Lord. No, it wasn't the fault of my kids or the traffic or the politicians. No, it wasn't the fault of how that person acted. They may they may indeed have their own sin. But they're not responsible for my sin, I am. And a spirit free from deceit confesses openly and is forgiven. And only God does that by his Holy Spirit to bring us that conviction. And it's a wonderful, it's a hurtful but wonderful freeing blessing. Because when we don't do it, when when we wallow in self-pity or self-deceit, And self-justification, instead of confessing our sin, it is miserable. And David describes that misery in verses 3 and 4. When I kept silent, my bones wasted away Through my groaning all day long, for day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. How many of you were really, really thankful when we got a break from all the heat? I mean if you had to be outside and you had to do work, when we were in West Virginia, let me tell you, every afternoon my strength was dried up by the heat of summer. Uh we had good mornings and we'd be really productive and it seemed like whenever we stopped to do our teen devotional, which is usually around one or two o'clock in the afternoon, and then it was time to get back to work, it was like uh And you know, everything I could do easily in the morning, I couldn't do as easily in the afternoon. We've all had that experience. Well that is what it's like for us spiritually, emotionally, in our souls when we refuse to confess our sin. When we're hiding or we're blame shifting or we're doing anything but openly admit what we've done, we're miserable And let me tell you, sometimes it's not just in our spirits, our souls, but it can actually manifest itself physically. There are all sorts of medical ways that a guilty conscience can manifest itself in your body. Having trouble sleeping, acid reflux, high blood pressure, bad neck pain, extreme fatigue Paralyzing anxiety, shortness of breath, difficulty concentrating are all things that have been tied to a guilty conscience. No, I'm not saying That if you suffer for any of those things, it's because you're a wicked sinner, and why don't you just confess to the Lord? Sometimes there's other problems. But when we have unconfessed sin, when we are holding it in and refusing to own up to it, re- and Still trying to either hide it, minimize it, blame shift it, justify it, we can be made miserable. But when David was confronted and he confessed, verse 5, I acknowledge my sin to you I did not cover my iniquity. I said I will confess my transgressions to the Lord. You notice how his confession is as complete as his conviction All three of those ways in which he had sinned. He'd fallen short of his calling as king, his calling as husband, his calling as commander of Uriah. He'd fallen short of that standard. He had transgressed. He had committed adultery. He had committed murder. And he was shot through with iniquity. It was twisted. It was wicked. It was vile. It was corrupt. And he acknowledged it all. I acknowledged my sin. I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord. He was done making excuses for any part of his sin. And then, immediately, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Immediately It's not, well, okay, I hear you. I hear what you're saying. I want to put you on probation for six months. And if you can keep yourself away from these kinds of sins for six months, at the end of those six months, I'll think about forgiving you And it wasn't, well, okay, I hear you, but maybe if you gave more generously to the temple building fund, then I would forgive you. Nope. Quick, full forgiveness. How is it possible? It's possible for one reason, and that is that David was not earning his own forgiveness Jesus would earn it for him on the cross. Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. When we are in a place where we're finally confessing our sin, but then we start bargaining with God Yes, Lord, I know I'm guilty. I confess. I'm sorry. I I promise I won't miss church for the next Six weeks. Okay, months. Okay, next week I'll be there. We're bargaining with God. Why are we doing that Whatever form it looks like, is because we think that somehow we're earning it. We're doing the works of penance to purchase it. No. It's already been purchased. It's already been paid for. You can't add to the payment Jesus made on the cross. You can't earn what's already been freely given. That end of verse 5 is the midpoint of Psalm 32. It's the hinge. And so David turns at the end of verse 5 as he goes into verse 6, and you can tell it's a turning point because verse 6 starts with therefore. Whenever you see therefore in the Bible is the major turning point. Based upon everything that David has learned, this is now what he's teaching us. Therefore let every one who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Surely in the rush of great waters they shall not reach him. You are a hiding place for me and preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance. This second half of Psalm 32, David is teaching God's people in three sections. So there is in verse 6 and 7, David is praying to the Lord. In verses 8 and 9, God is actually speaking now to his people. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. Be not like a horse or a mule without understanding, which must be curved with bit and bridle, or it will not stay near you. That's God talking to his people. And then finally David makes his conclusion. and his call. The conclusion is, Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the Lord, and the call is, Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, O righteous, shout for joy, all you upright in heart. So we've got David's prayer, we've got God speaking, and we've got David's conclusion and call. David's prayer to God is that the Lord would allow, the Lord would allow everyone who is godly to pray to the Lord while he may be found. What does that mean? Well who are the godly? It's interesting because in Hebrew the word that's translated here is godly It doesn't come from the word Elohim, which is the word for God, but rather it's much more closely connected to a different Hebrew word. Any guesses as to what the Hebrew word is that it's closely connected to? Chesed. It's very closely connected to chesed. And it can be understood, the godly can be understood as those who have received the steadfast love of the Lord. What makes us godly? Not because we're godlike, but because we have received the steadfast love of the Lord. And if we've received the steadfast love of the Lord, we have an open invitation to call upon the Lord, and we need to call upon the Lord while he may be found. Today is the day of salvation. Now is the time to seek the Lord for forgiveness. You've got that besetting sin, that bad habit. that that that sin pattern in your life that you've been minimizing and excusing, today is the day to seek the Lord. Call out to him right now. Don't put it off When we come around the Lord's table, take this time to say, Lord, I confess to you openly, I've been sinning against you in this way I've been irritable toward my spouse. I've been short-tempered. I've I've why is that? Because I want my way. And because I want my way, I get mad at my spouse when he or she is not doing everything the way that I want it to be done. And so I Maybe I'm not being abusive, but I'm being a jerk. Or, Lord, I'm not being patient with my kids. Or I'm not being faithful as a father and a husband to lead my family spiritually. I'm sinning. I'm falling short of the mark. to be the leader and the and the godly example. Confess it now while the Lord is here and listening. The flip side to that is that the rush of great waters would reach us. Surely in the rush of great waters they shall not reach him. The great waters could be just trials and tribulations that God would send into our lives in order to turn us to Him and this this would then be connected to God's exhortation to His people in the second part, be not like the horse or the mule which must be turned with bit or bridle. So sometimes if we don't confess our sin and we just persevere, the consequences come crashing down on our heads, you know, floodgates open, and all of a sudden we've got trials, tribulations, turmoil, and that forces us to the Lord. But it's But God says don't be like that. I don't want to I don't want to have to to jerk on the bit and the bridle and and cause pain in you and and forcibly turn your head because you're going the wrong way, you're being stubborn like a mule. So we need to pray to him while he can be found. And then And then he tells the Lord what he has been for him, a hiding place from trouble, one who surrounds him with songs of deliverance. David knew about hiding places in times of trouble. Several Psalms are written from the cave of Machpilah or from a fortress or a hideout, a place where he would go and find refuge from the enemies that pursued him. God is that to us. We have enemies that pursue us. It's why we sin. We sin because our flesh hates God and wants to break free and have this independence and is constantly lying to us That somehow if we sinned we'd be better off, we'd be free. The world hates God and ignores God and wants to tell us that life is better lived without God. And only fools and simple minded people believe in God. The devil hates God and comes after us and causes us to doubt God's goodness and His Word All of these enemies attack us, and it's part of why we just give into sin. We need a refuge, we need a hiding place, we need a place to say, Lord, if I draw close to you, if I hide myself in you. If I am pursuing you and your love is keeping me and guarding me, then these enemies cannot get to me. That's what I need. I need the hiding place. I need you to surround me with songs of deliverance When we're aware of our sin, when we have a hard time freely and openly confessing it and asking for forgiveness, or we feel stuck, we need to pray, Lord, I believe, help my unbelief, or Lord, I repent, help me repent. Turn my stubborn heart to you. And even that desire to pray, even that desire that says, Yes, that is the right thing. I need to do that. That desire is given by the Lord. And it's a sure sign that His grace is at work in your heart Be encouraged and respond to it. And then God answers his people, and God answers David's prayer and tells his people, I will instruct you. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. It's an echo of the prayer in Psalm 23. Lead me in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. And echo of Psalm 5. 8 that we looked at a few weeks ago, where David prayed, Lead me, O Lord, in your righteousness because of my enemies. Make your way straight before me. God says, I will, I will instruct you. and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. This expression eye upon you is uh an intimacy and a relationship of I'm watching you, you watch me, eye contact, now follow me. Eye to eye, follow me. Let's go this way. That's how we should respond to the Lord. Through his word and spirit, he speaks and he leads. We don't need to be stubborn. God will, because he loves us, God will use pain and suffering to turn us to himself and keep us near him. But it's so much better if we respond to his word and his spirit with a teachable heart and less stubbornness. And then we have the conclusion of Psalm thirty-two, and this is where we see Chesed explicitly in verse ten. What's the conclusion? Verse ten presents us with two ways to live, or we could say two ways to be surrounded. What do you want surrounding you? What do you want surrounding you in your life? Troubles or the steadfast love of the Lord? He says, Many are the sorrows of the wicked. But Steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the Lord. Like Psalm 125, verse 2 says, As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the Lord surrounds his people from this time forth and forevermore. That's the blessing we should seek. being surrounded by the steadfast love of the Lord. And if we know that blessing, if we know that God is our hiding place, we're in Him. His steadfast love is surrounding us. If we know that blessing that comes from free and open confession and and an earnest desire to follow him closely, if we know that blessing Be glad. Rejoice. Shout for joy. Another triplet. Another triple call. Be glad in the Lord. Rejoice. O righteous, and here's where we get a big clue, by the way, that whenever you see the righteous named in the Psalms, and you might think, well, that's not me, I'm not righteous. Yes, you are, if you are in Christ. It's the righteousness of the forgiven, not the sinless. There's only one sinless, and the rest of us are righteous in Him. Be glad, rejoice, and shout for joy. Shout for joy. That's the call. Again, what's the main point of Psalm 32? Being fully and freely forgiven by the Lord is such a great blessing that it should cause us to rejoice greatly and confess quickly. It's so much better, and we are so much better off. When the Lord clears away the clouds of self-deceit, we see his face by faith, in his word, by his spirit. We confess our sin, he forgives us. He cleanses us and renews us. He stays close to us. We stay close to him. He leads us in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. He teaches us the way we should go. That is the good life. The world will tell you the good life is found in that next promotion that just requires a little bit more sacrifice from your family. Or that next vacation that you can't really afford, but there's still a little bit of room on the credit cards. Or that sinful indulgence that you know is not right, but what's the harm? That's the world going to keep telling you, chase it, chase it, it's right over there. Your flesh is going to tell you the good life is found in being your own boss, doing what you please, have it your way. That's why the call of the world is so attractive to our flesh. But God, in his word, tells us the truth. There is no better life than a life surrounded by the steadfast love of the Lord There is no better life than to know that the Lord's eye is on us and he is teaching us and leading us in the way we should go. Is it an easy life? No. But we have comfort, we have assurance, and we have strength that only God can give. Will we confess and look to Him Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God, you love us more than we could say, more than we could begin to possibly understand. Thank you. Thank you for the gift of full and free forgiveness purchased by Jesus at the highest cost imaginable, beyond imagining. Thank you. Sin forgiven, transgression covered, iniquity not countered against us, that we might be surrounded by your steadfast love, that we might be glad, that we might rejoice, that we might shout for joy. Thank you in Jesus' name, Amen