Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 1059 And if you were listening yesterday and you thought we were going back to 1 Peter today, sorry, I forgot to double check with the Bible reading plan, but we're actually still in the book of Micah. We're finishing up Micah, so we're doing this Five, six, and seven today. And then we will move on. So just to give you a little bit of a preview of what's coming so that uh I won't misspeak at the end. of our Bible reading plan. It's interesting how it's one chapter per day, but as we get to some of these minor prophets, we're doing two and now even three chapters in a day. But tomorrow we'll go back to 1 Peter chapter 5, and then we'll start the book of Nahum the day after tomorrow. We are coming down the home stretch. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look at these wonderful chapters here in the prophet Micah. Father in heaven, thank you so much for the prophet Micah, for the calling you gave him, for the word that you sent through him to us today. Help us to receive it as your word by your Spirit in Jesus' name. Amen. Micah chapter 5, 6 and 7. Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops. Siege is laid against us. With a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. But you, O Bethlehem Ephratha who are too little to be among the clans of Judah. From you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days or even from everlasting. Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth. Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel and he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, and in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. When the Assyrian comes into our land and treads in our palaces, then we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes of men. They shall shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod at its entrance. And he shall deliver us from the Assyrian when he comes into our land and treads within our border. Like dew from the Lord, like showers on the grass, which delay not for a man, nor wait for the children of man. And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the nations in the midst of many peoples Like a lion among the beasts of the forest, like a young lion among the flocks of sheep, which, when it goes through, treads down and tears in pieces, and there is none to deliver. Your hand shall be lifted up over your adversaries, and all your enemies shall be cut off. And in that day, declares the Lord, I will cut off your horses from among you, and I will destroy your chariots, and I will cut off the cities of your land, and throw down all your strongholds, and I will cut off sorceries from your hand. Sorceries from your hand. And you shall have no more tellers of fortunes, and I will cut off your carved images and your pillars from among you, and you shall bow down no more to the work of your hands. and I will root out your Asherah images from among you and destroy your cities. And in anger and wrath I will execute vengeance on the nations that did not obey. Hear what the Lord says. Arise. Plead your case before the mountains. And let the hills hear your voice. Hear, you mountains, the indictment of the Lord, and you enduring foundations of the earth, for the Lord has an indictment against his people And he will contend with Israel. O my people, what have I done to you? How have I wearied you? Answer me. For I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and redeemed you from the house of slavery, and I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam. O my people, remember what Balak, king of Moab, devised, and what Balaam, the son of Beor, answered him. And what happened from Shetin to Gilgal, that you may know the righteous acts of the Lord. With what shall I come before the Lord? and bow myself before God on high? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves a year old? Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, with ten thousand rivers of oil Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? He has told you, O man, what is good And what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice and to love kindness and to walk humbly with your God? The voice of the Lord cries to the city, it is sound wisdom to fear your name. Hear of the rod and of him who appointed it. Can I forget any longer the treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked and the scant measure that is accursed? Shall I acquit the man with wicked scales and with a bag of deceitful weights? Your rich men are full of violence, your inhabitants speak lies. and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth. Therefore I strike you with a grievous blow, making you desolate because of your sins. You shall eat, but not be satisfied, and there shall be hunger within you You shall put away, but not preserve. And what you preserve I will give to the sword. You shall sow, but not reap. You shall tread olives but not anoint yourselves with oil. You shall tread grapes but not drink wine. For you have kept the statutes of Omri. and all the works of the house of Ahab, and you have walked in their counsels, that I may make you a desolation, and your inhabitants a hissing So you shall bear the scorn of my people. Woe is me, for I have become as when the summer fruit has been gathered. As when the grapes have been gleaned. There is no cluster to eat, no first ripe fig that my soul desires The godly has perished from the earth, and there is no one upright among mankind. They all lie in wait for blood, and each hunts the other with a net. Their hands are on what is evil, to do it well. The prince and the judge ask for a bribe, and the great man utters the evil desire of his soul. Thus they weave it together. The best of them is like a briar the most upright of them a thorn bri hedge. The day of your watchman of your punishment has come. Now their confusion is at hand. Put no trust in a neighbor, have no confidence in a friend. Guard the doors of your mouth from her who lies in your arms. For the son treats the father with contempt. The daughter rises up against her mother, and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. A man's enemies are the men of his own house. But as for me, I will look to the Lord. I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me. Rejoice not over me, O my enemy. When I fall, I shall rise. When I sit in darkness, the Lord will be a light to me. I will bear the indignation of the Lord, because I have sinned against him until he pleads my cause and exercises judgment for me, executes judgment for me. For me. He will bring me out to the light, I shall look upon his vindication. Then my enemy will see, and shame will cover her who said to me, Where is the Lord your God? My eyes will look upon her. Now she will be trampled down like the mire of the streets. A day for the building of your walls in that day the boundary shall be far extended. In that day they will come to you from Assyria and the cities of Egypt and from Egypt to the river, from the sea. to sea and from mountain to mountain, but the earth will be desolate because of its inhabitants for the fruit of their deeds. Shepherd your people with your staff, the flock of your inheritance, who dwell alone in a forest, in the midst of a garden land. Let them graze in Bashan and Gilead. As in days of old, as in the days when you came out of the land of Egypt, I will show them marvelous things. The nations shall see and be ashamed of all their might. They shall lay their hands on their mouths Their ears shall be deaf. They shall lick the dust like a serpent. Like the crawling things of the earth. They shall come trembling. out of their strongholds. They shall turn in dread to the Lord our God, and they shall be in fear of you. Who is a God like you? Pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his inheritance. He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in steadfast love. He will again have compassion on us. He will tread our iniquities underfoot. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. You will show faithfulness to Jacob and steadfast love to Abraham, as you have sworn to our fathers from the days of old. That's Micah 5 through 7. And there's simply no way for us to do kind of a verse-by-verse commentary of three chapters the way that I have been doing in many of these devotionals. And so we're going to take a look at the big pictures here. We had this promise at the end of Micah IV of how everything was going to be. in the latter days, at the end of all things, in the new heavens and the new earth is I believe the picture that's being painted there. And then the fact that they're going to have to go away to Babylon and come back before that happens. Well then we get an interesting sort of layout in 5, 6, and 7 of kind of of redemptive history. We have the coming of Christ. In chapter 5, we have a picture, a picture of the need for the sacrifice of Christ, and then the requirement that God has for his people in following Christ. sanctification. And then we have a renewal of the promise that was given in chapter 4 of the way things will be at the end. It comes back in chapter 7, but with a different kind of spin on it. So In a sense, we can see in chapter 5 this coming of Christ, in chapter 6, the need for the sacrifice of Christ, and then the requirement that God has for those who follow Christ. Uh the picture of how we're going to be in the world, and then the the final time in chapter seven, and then it ends with this beautiful statement about the Lord's redemptive promises and his steadfast commitment. to his people. But let's just sort of take a look at some of these some of these highlights. Again, we can't do a verse by verse through the whole thing. But Micah chapter 5, verses 2 through 5, very, very famous. Section Bethlehem Ephraitha specifically identified as the town where David was born and where David was he grew up. There's another Bethlehem within Israel, but it's larger, it's farther away. This is the little one, the one that's too little to be among the clans of Judah. It wasn't even counted in the cities allocated to Judah. But a very special one comes forth from Bethlehem Ephraim, one who's going to be ruler in Israel, one whose coming forth is from everlasting, from each other. From eternity past really is what that ancient days probably should be translated as. He's gonna give up his people. God is going to give up his people to be trampled on by enemies until The time when she is in labor has given birth. Israel remained under foreign dominion for almost the entire time from the Babylonian captivity, 586. until the destruction of of Jerusalem and the passing away of the Jewish state and the the church had a shift in the reality of the nature of the kingdom. So Mary is the one who gives birth, and through Jesus, through this one who stands and shepherds the flock in the strength of the Lord. in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. His coming forth is from ancient days, from everlasting. He shepherds the flock in the strength of the Lord and He shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. This says so much about Jesus. He's from everlasting. His strength is the strength of the Lord, because he is the Lord in human form. He has the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. He he reigns to the ends of the earth. Here we are, 2,000 years after the birth of Jesus, and he still reigns to the ends of the earth. People from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation are c They're coming to know Jesus. They're coming to confess their faith to Him. And He is our peace. He himself is our peace, Ephesians 2 says of Christ. What a wonderful picture. And the reason why we're no longer under the dominion of earthly empires is because the kingdom of God is no longer a kingdom, a earthly geopolitical kingdom that has a particular territory and a government and an army and all that kind of stuff that it had for You know, a thousand years, fifteen hundred years before Jesus came. Now the kingdom of God is not of this world. Jesus said, My kingdom is not of this world. If it were, my followers would fight. Jesus raised no army, he took no earthly crown, he marked out no territory that he would rule over. Unlike Muhammad, who came later and who did all those things, Jesus as the Son of God and the promised one Transforms the nature of the kingdom of God, so that we are a dispersed people. The remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples Like dew from the Lord, like showers on the grass. There was a Jewish diaspora that took place starting with the Babylonian exile and continuing even to this day. Many Jewish people living among the peoples of the world. But I believe that this is a with reference to we Christians, believers, as the remnant of Jacob. We are among the nations. We are in the midst of many peoples. We're like a lion among the beasts of the forest. That's how we live our lives now. But one day our enemies will be cut off. Our enemies will be cut off when Jesus comes again, and all warfare and all idolatry will be taken away. When in anger and in wrath God executes vengeance on the nations that did not obey, on the nations who oppose God. But now, what does the Lord require? We're going to jump down here to chapter six, verse six. With what shall I come before the Lord and bow myself before God on high? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings? Calves a year old. Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression? What a line that is so pregnant with meaning and foreshadowing. Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression? No. God will give his one and only for your transgression. What a profound act of grace. God doesn't want our sacrifice, not because no sacrifice is needed, but because any sacrifice we could give would be inadequate Solomon, when he dedicated the temple, sacrificed thousands of animals. There were rivers of blood and oil and water flowing. It wasn't enough. Can't change the heart. The sacrifice of Christ alone, the firstborn of God, the one and only. He is sacrificed for the sin of our Souls. And now, what has God required of us? Cleansed by the blood of Jesus, what has God required of us? To do justice, to love kindness, and to walk humbly With our God. Not to seek world dominion or conquest or glory for ourselves, but to do justice, to love, kindness, mercy. Chesed, it's actually the word there, steadfast love, and to walk humbly with our God. And God will. One day deal with our enemies. He will come and he will gather in his own And he will punish the nations, and he will secure his people. And so we can wait for him. Micah 7:7. Here's a great memory verse. seven seven but as for me I will look to the Lord I will wait for the God of my salvation my God will hear me But as for me, I will look to the Lord. I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me. Rejoice not over me, O my enemy. When I fall, I shall rise When I sit in darkness, the Lord will be light to me. I love these verses. So powerful. Because in this world we don't triumph. In this world we don't triumph, but when Christ comes again, we have, we have vindication. My eyes will look upon her. She will be trampled down like the mire of the streets. We're waiting for that day, and God will bring it to pass. God will bring it to pass because God is faithful. God pardons iniquity. God passes over transgression. He doesn't retain his anger forever, but he delights in steadfast love. In chasid. That's what he delights in. That's what he rejoices in. Yes, God disciplines. Yes, God judges. But what he delights in is steadfast love. He will again have compassion. He'll tread our iniquities underfoot. He'll cast all our sins into the depth of the sea. All our sin will be forgotten forevermore. To no more trouble us anymore. Why? Because of the faithfulness of God to keep his covenant promise. The promises he made to Abraham, to Jacob, to the forefathers that were fulfilled in Christ, and that will come to final, glorious consummation when Jesus comes again Let's pray. Father, thank you for such powerful hope. We live in the light of eternity. We live under the smile of your kindness. Because of Christ Jesus our Lord. Thank you. Help us to live with confident joy. Help us to live with expectant hope. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me from Micah 5 to 7. Tomorrow we are going back to 1 Peter to finish up that book. 1 Peter chapter 5 is on tap tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.