Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 1058 We are in the prophet Micah, Micah chapters 3 and 4 on tap today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are great, wise, holy, wonderful, altogether. Faithful. Your word is powerful, living and active. Your word is truth that we need. Speak to us By your Holy Spirit, write your word on our hearts today. We pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Micah 3 and 4 And I said, Hear, you heads of Jacob, and rulers of the house of Israel, is it not for you to know justice? You who hate the good and love the evil, who tear the skin from off my people and their flesh from off their bones, who eat the flesh of my people and flay their skin from off them and break their bones in pieces, and chop them up like meat in a pot, like flesh in a cauldron, then they will cry to the Lord, but he will not answer them He will hide his face from them at that time because they have made their deeds evil Thus says the Lord concerning the prophets, who lead my people astray, who cry, peace, when they have something to eat, but declare war against him who puts nothing into their mouths. Therefore it shall be night to you without vision, and darkness to you without divination. The sun shall go down on the prophets, and the day shall be black over them. The seers shall be disgraced, and the diviners put to shame. They shall all cover their lips, for there is no answer from God. But as for me I am filled with power, with the Spirit of the Lord, and with justice and might, to declare to Jacob his transgression, and to Israel his sin. Hear this You heads of the house of Jacob, and rulers of the house of Israel, who detest justice, and make crooked all that is straight, who build Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity Its heads give judgment for a bribe, its priests teach for a price, its prophets practice divination for money Yet they lean on the Lord and say, Is not the Lord in the midst of us? No disaster shall come upon us. us. Therefore, because of you, Zion shall be ploughed as a field, Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins, and the mountain of the house a wooded height. It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains. It shall be lifted up above the hills, and peoples shall flow to it, and many nations shall come and say, Come! Let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, and that we may walk in his path. For out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. He shall judge between many peoples, and he shall decide disputes for strong nations far away, and they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. But they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree, and no one shall make them afraid, for the mouth of the Lord of hosts has spoken. For all the peoples walk, each in the name of its God, but we will walk in the name of the Lord our God forever and Ever. In that day, declares the Lord, I will assemble the lame and gather those who have been driven away, and those whom I have afflicted. And the lame I will make the remnant, and those who were cast off a strong nation, and the Lord will reign over them in Mount Zion from this time forth. And forevermore, and you, O Tower of the Flock, hill of the daughter of Zion, to you shall it come. The former dominion shall come, kingship for the daughter of Jerusalem Now, why do you cry aloud? Is there no king in you? Has your counselor perished? That pain seized you like a woman in labor, writhe and groan, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in labor, for now you shall go out from the city and dwell in the open country. You shall go to Babylon. There you shall be rescued There the Lord will redeem you from the hand of your enemies. Now many nations are assembled against you, and saying, Let her be defiled, and let our eyes gaze upon Zion. But they do not know the thoughts of the Lord. They do not understand his plan, that he has gathered them as sheaves to the threshing floor. Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion For I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hoofs bronze. You shall beat in pieces many peoples, and shall devote their gain to the Lord, their wealth to the Lord. of the whole earth. That is Micah 3 and 4. Some sobering words and also just some wonderfully hopeful words First of all, Micah is here denouncing self-serving religion. Religion can often be uh A good racket for people who are self-serving because they can claim for themselves a divine power to bless whom they choose to bless and to curse whom they choose to curse, and they can pretend, right, that God has empowered them toward this end, that God has called them, that God has equipped them to be able to bless their allies and supporters and friends, and to be able to curse those who are against them. And that's what he's talking about here. And but what that leads to, a self-serving religion, a self-exalting religion, is a source of evil and injustice. It creates rulers and prophets who are called by the name of God and who are set over God's people And who hate good and love evil, who tear the skin from off my people and their flesh from off their bones, they Self-serving prophets, false teachers. Those who are just in it to promote themselves, their ministry, their influence, their wealth, their status, their prestige, whatever. And those who are like, I'm gonna gather a bunch of people together in like a faction. maybe a political faction or a social group and say, We are the blessed ones and we're the ones who are going to have all good and the people who are against us, they're going to have all bad. This is what we see in verses five and six. They cry peace when they have something to eat, but declare war against him who puts nothing into their mouths. No. No. This kind of biased, self-centered religion is actually toxic and harmful to God's people. It undermines the true cause of godliness. And so Micah contrasts the calling that God has given him I am filled with power with the Spirit of the Lord and with justice and might to declare to Jacob his transgression and to Israel Israel his sin. And that's important because the true calling of a man of God called to proclaim God's word is shown by being willing in love to confront his own tribe, his own people, his own group with their sin and call them to repentance. See, self-serving religious leaders don't do that. They're always talking about the sin of those people out there. Those people out there are the problem. Those people over there, God's gonna judge them. We're the blessed ones. We are the solution to the world's problems. No, that is self-serving false religion. The true man of God will speak the truth in love. to the people of God, calling them to repent and to trust the Lord. And so that's exactly what Micah is doing He's giving them sobering words of judgment. Because of you, Zion will be plowed as a field. Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins, and the mountain of the house a wooded height. This is coming. Now, remember from yesterday, Micah is a contemporary of Isaiah and Amos. He's prophesying Hundred and fifty, two hundred years before any of these things really come to pass fully. So he's foreseeing what's going to happen. And like Isaiah, he not only foresees the judgment that's coming. against Jerusalem, against Zion, but also in Chapter 4, the return from Babylon, from the exile trial back to the promised land as well. So chapter four we take a dramatic turn toward the positive. Because while things look grim and dark in the short term as a consequence of their sin, God is not giving up on his people. God never gives up on pursuing his people in love And so he says, It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains. Shall be lifted up above the hills, and people shall flow to it. Now, lots of Christians have divided into different camps Based upon their interpretation of passages like this. When will this happen? There's basically three interpretations. Post-millennialism says this is going to happen within human history. Sometime within the history of the world before Christ returns, the nations will come and they will say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, that we may walk in his path. This is what they say is going to happen before Jesus comes again. That's post-millennialism. Premillennialism says Jesus will come again. and then reign for a thousand years in the millennial earthly kingdom, and that's when this will happen. So after Jesus' return, but during the millennial reign. All millennialism says, no, this is going to happen after Jesus returns and after he ushers in the new heavens. and the new earth. So the question is, can we know for sure? I don't want to spend too much time on this, but I am an all millennialist and I want to show you where I get that from and it's from Revelation. 21. Because some people say, well, it's talking about nations here. And so the nations cannot come to the mountain of the Lord and go up to the house of Jacob. After Jesus comes, because after Jesus comes again, it'll be the end of the nations, and it'll just be the one people of God. But that's not what we find if we go to Revelation chapter 21. In Revelation 21, we have this clearly after the second coming of Christ, there's a new heavens and a new earth and the new Jerusalem. And John is being taken to see the New Jerusalem, which is actually a picture of the glorified church. And so he sees this uh great wonderful temple city and look at uh verse twenty four By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it. And its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and honor of the nations. But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's Book of God. So here we have Jesus has come again. He has judged everyone. Satan and the beast and the false prophet and all those who don't belong to Christ have been thrown into the lake of fire. That all happened at the end of chapter 20. Chapter 21, a new heavens and a new earth, the new Jerusalem, the holy city, and the nations. Walk by its light. The kings of the earth bring their glory into it. They bring into it the glory and honor of the nations. They walk by its light. Now light, of course, in Scripture is an image of truth. You walk by the truth of God. So let's go back to Micah 4. It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains It shall be lifted up above the hills, and peoples shall flow into it, and many nations shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, let to the house of the God of Jacob. that he may teach us his ways and that we may walk in his paths. I think Revelation 21 is the fulfillment of Micah 4. Therefore I am a millennial. I think there's actually dangers in being post-millennial because you're going to tr you're going to tend toward A political gospel that is triumphalistic, that is trying to take over the world and conquer it for Jesus by means of earthly politics. Premillennialism, I think, is is an escapism that doesn't I just don't think there is an earthly millennium. I don't think that's really taught in the go in in in the Bible. And go back and listen to what I taught about Revelation twenty if you don't under Understand why I would say that, but I don't believe there is this future earthly millennium. It doesn't make any sense as to understanding the second coming of Jesus. We need to read the Old Testament in the light of the New Testament. We need to let the New Testament shine its light back on the Old Testament and help us to interpret it properly. Don't ever read the Old Testament as if the New Testament had never been written and just stick yourself only in this context. Because in this context, it does look like it is something that could take place within history. But I think revelation is given to us, given to a persecuted church suffering in this age. So that they will know you need to persevere in faith, you need to overcome by the blood of the Lamb and the word of your testimony. And to the one who overcomes, there will be the glory that will come after Jesus returns again. So I believe pretty strongly that all millennialism is the right way to go with understanding how things are going to unfold. It's the best reading of Revelation, which is the clearest teaching that we have, as well as the end of 1 Thessalonians and the beginning of 2 Thessalonians, which is also clear teaching that we have. And then you take that light and you shine it back on the earlier passages that are not as clear, and you get that understanding of of the timing of that. But this day is coming. And to those who say, well, wait a minute, they're gonna sit under their vine and under their fig tree. They are going to plow the earth. This doesn't I thought that in the in the new creation we're just going to be like floating on clouds, playing harps and singing praises to God. No, it is a new earth. It is it is a new earth with no curse, with no fall, and I believe the Bible paints for us a very earthly picture of the new earth where we will be farming and And living in community and working with our hands and working together, we will have peace, we will have justice, we will have righteousness. And we will walk in the name of the Lord our God forever and ever. And I love that. The end of verse 5, I think that's a clue that we're talking about eternity, future. We're talking about the new heavens and the new earth. Because when this comes to pass, there won't ever be any end to it. And any other time when there's been moments of independence for God's people or moments of revival for God's people, they've always come to an end. But there will come a day when it will not come to an end. In that day, declares the Lord, I will assemble the lame, gather those who have been driven away, those who have been afflicted. Of the lame I will make of the remnant, those who were cast off a strong nation, and the Lord will reign over them in Mount Zion from this time forth and forevermore. Again, there's that eternity language. Who does God choose? First Corinthians chapter one. Who does God choose to be the heirs of his kingdom? The weak, the despised, the foolish, the outcast? That's who God brings in. That's who God makes his kingdom. That's who will reign with him forever and ever. And that day is coming. That day is coming. Now before that day, his people have to go into Babylon. and come back out again. You shall go to Babylon. I scrolled past it. Verse 10. You shall go to Babylon. There you shall be rescued. There the Lord will redeem you from the hand But that is something that's going to happen in the immediate future. One of the things we have to be careful of in these prophets is to not confuse what's going to happen in the next couple hundred years from what's going to happen at the end. of all things. There there's a collapsed horizon that we've talked about before, and sometimes it doesn't look like there's centuries and centuries in between, but there is, as we understand it from this side of things. So again, a great rule for interpretation. Don't read the Old Testament as if the New Testament has never been written. Use the light of the Old Testament to shine back on the Old Testament. Testament, the New Testament, shine back on the Old Testament to bring to light the things that are unclear. And revelation is given to us as the last book of the Bible for that reason. A lot of it, a lot of revelation is kind of the New Testament guide to understanding the Old Testament prophets. Anyway, I hope that you're excited and looking forward to the day when Jesus will return and we will reign with him in glory forever and ever. And that helps us not to set our hopes on the temporary turbulent political realities of this fallen world. Just know that they are fallen. Uh each one walks according to their own God, and they serve their own interests, but our eyes should be fixed on our King, who reigns over all, and who is preparing for us an eternal city that Nothing in this world could ever take away. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for loving us more than we deserve, for being faithful to us through every season of life. Thank you for your kingdom that cannot be shaken. Thank you for our King who reigns forevermore. It is in Jesus' name and for his sake that we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for these first four chapters of Micah. We're going to come back to Micah in a couple of days, but first we're going to go back to First Peter tomorrow. Lord willing, hopefully you can join me for that. Have a blessed day. The Lord.