Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 10. fifty-seven, a one thousand and fifty-seventh day together in the Word of God. And we are in the book of Micah, the minor prophet Micah. Gonna be looking at the first couple chapters today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for the prophet Micah. Thank you for the Opportunity we have now to enter into this book and to learn from you through it. Be our teacher and our guide, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The word of the Lord that came to Micah of Morzbeth in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem. Hear, you peoples, all of you, pay attention, O earth, and all that is in it And let the Lord God be a witness against you, the Lord from his holy temple. For behold, the Lord is coming out of his place, and will come down and tread upon the high places of the earth. and the mountains will melt under him, and the valleys split open like wax before the fire, like waters poured down a steep place. All of this Is for the transgression of Jacob and for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what is the high place of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem? Therefore I will make Samaria a heap in the open country, a place for planting vineyards and I will pour down her stones into the valley and uncover her foundations, all her carved images shall be beaten to pieces, all her wages shall be burned with fire, and all her idols I will lay waste. for from the fee of a prostitute she gathered them, and to the fee of a prostitute they shall return. For this I will lament and wail I will go stripped and naked. I will make lamentation like the jackals and mourn like the ostriches, for her wound is incurable, and it has come to Judah. It has reached to the gate of my people, to Jerusalem. Tell it not in Gath, weep not at all, in Bethleopra. Roll yourselves in the dust. Pass on your way, inhabitants of Shaper In nakedness and shame the inhabitants of Zaon do not come out. The lamentation of Beth-Ezel shall take away from you its standing place. For the inhabitants of Meroth wait anxiously for good, because disaster has come down from the Lord to the gate of Jerusalem. Harness the steeds to the chariots, inhabitants of Lachish. It was the beginning of sin for the daughter to the daughter of Zion For in you were found the transgressions of Israel. Therefore you shall give parting gifts to Morashef Gath. The houses of Aqzib shall be a deceitful thing to the kings of Israel I will again bring a conqueror to you, inhabitants of Marishah. The glory of Israel shall come to Adulam. Make yourselves bald and cut off your hair for the children of your delight. Make yourselves as bald as the eagle, for they shall go from you into exile. Woe to those who devise wickedness and work evil on their beds. When the morning dawns they perform it, because it is in the power of their hand. They covet fields and seize them and houses and take them away. They oppress a man and his house, a man and his inheritance. Therefore, thus says the Lord, Behold, against this family I am devising disaster, from which you cannot remove your necks, and you shall not walk haughtily. for it will be a time of disaster. In that day they shall take up a taunt song against you, and moan bitterly, and say, We are utterly ruined. He changes the portion of my people, how he removes it from me. To an apostate he allots our fields. Therefore you will have none to cast the line by lot in the assembly of the Lord. Do not preach. Thus they preach. One should not preach of such things. Disgrace shall not overtake us. Should this be said, O house of Jacob? Has the Lord grown impatient? Are these his deeds? Do not my words do good to him who walks uprightly? But lately my people have risen up as an enemy. You strip the rich robe from those who pass by trustingly, with no thought of war. The women of my people you drive out from their delightful houses. From their young children you take away my splendour forever. Arise and go, for this is no place to rest, because of uncleanness that destroys with a grievous destruction. If a man should go about And utter wind and lies, saying, I will preach to you of wine and strong drink. He would be the preacher for this people. I will surely assemble all of you, O Jacob. I will gather the remnant of Israel. I will set them together like sheep in a foal, like a flock in his pasture. A noisy multitude of men. He who opens the breach goes up before them. They break through and pass the gate, going out by it. Their king passes on before them the Lord at their head. That is Micah one and two. So, Micah of Moorsbeth. Morsheth, sorry, Morsheth. My eyes are not as grey as they once were. That's good coffee though, tell you what. And a nice River Valley Ranch mug. We love River Valley Ranch in our family. Great Christian summer camp. And Retreat Center, great ministry. Anyway, very good coffee. Micah of Morishev. You see on verse 1 that he prophesied in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. That means he prophesied at the same time. as Isaiah and Amos. Isaiah prophesied to Jerusalem and Judah Amos, who was from Jerusalem and Judah, prophesied in the northern kingdom of Israel. And Micah is Prophesying to both at the same time. Samaria is northern Israel, Jerusalem the capital of southern Israel. Samaria is listed first and then Jerusalem because Samaria is addressed first in the prophecies. and then Jerusalem. You probably remember from other books and other parts of the Bible, but Samaria, the northern kingdom, the ten tribes of Israel. That broke away from Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, formed an independent kingdom. Their first king was Jeroboam. Jeroboam set up two golden calves, one at Bethel, one at Dan. They never returned to worship the Lord at the temple in Jerusalem as they should have, because all the kings of Israel thought If they let their people go down to Jerusalem and worship at the temple, they're going to become attached to the house of David and they're they're going to lose their kingdom and it's going to go back to Judah. So the northern kingdom was was much worse. And early on, fairly early on, King Ahab and Queen Jezebel, they also introduced Baal worship, so not only the wrong worship of Yahweh. the Lord, but then worship of foreign gods. Now, some of the kings in the south also introduced the worship of foreign gods. And sometimes it became very widespread, sometimes it became very brutal. But the southern kingdom of Judah at least had some kings in that Davidic line who were good kings. relatively good and and really pretty strongly remarkably good. The Northern Kingdom only had bad kings. And so they go into destruction and into exile much sooner. They go in about 722 B. C. , whereas it's right around 600 B. C. , about 597, that the exile of the southern kingdom begins. with the conquest of Jerusalem. Northern Kingdom, Israel is conquered by the Assyrians. Southern Kingdom, Judah, is conquered by the Babylonians. So that's just a little bit of background. Micah has a prophet a prophetic ministry to both, and it's sometime before um they both are destroyed. But he's warning them. He's warning first the northern kingdom. God's going to come, God's going to destroy for the transgressions of Jacob, verse 5, and for the sins of the house of Israel. What's the transgression of Jacob? It's Samaria. What's the high place of Judah? It's Jerusalem, because even in Jerusalem, even though the temple of the Lord is there, For one thing, Solomon, in bringing in many foreign wives, allowed the temples, or at least little altars to foreign gods to be put up just outside the city walls, so right there in the Jerusalem area. But also the the temple worship itself, even when it was being carried on, was often corrupt and self-seeking So God is going to make Samaria a heap in the open country. Now, Jerusalem is going to have her foundations uncovered. We'll see that in chapter 3, verse 12. But Samaria is going to be left a heap for a while. Like it's not going to become a significant city again, unlike Jerusalem, which is only going to have 70 years. of being vacated or nearly vacated and then it's going to be rebuilt. And of course it's still there today as a very prominent city. But all the carved images, all the idols are going to be burned with fire and laid waste. She gathered them for the fee of a prostitute. She they're going to go to the fee of a prostitute, which is This bankruptcy, just absolute spiritual bankruptcy, is what's going to be shown from these idols. Now, Mike is not happy about this. Mike is not saying, whoop whoop, yeah, this you're going down, sucker. God's judgment's coming on you. Mike is not doing that. It's quite the opposite. Sometimes I think I see Christians today talk about The judgment of God coming upon America or the judgment of God coming upon the church in America. And I don't think they're necessarily wrong. I think there's plenty of evidence. And I've spoken about that uh in previous uh devotionals that we've been through passages about the idolatry of America, the idolatry of the American Church, the consequences of that idolatry. But I hope that you always hear me saying that with a heavy heart. with a heart of lament, not of boasting and of self righteousness, because the idolatry that took hold in Israel and Judah can take hold of our hearts so easily. And so we need the grace of God. We need the blood of Jesus Christ. We need the Holy Spirit to grant us repentance. He doesn't want this to be gloated. This message of disaster, he doesn't want it to be spread to foreign powers. Gath is in the Philistine area. He doesn't want it to be spread to outsiders so they can have a reason to boast against Jerusalem or against Israel and Samaria. Remember, when we looked at Obadiah. several days ago. One of the problems that uh Philistia and Edom, they both boasted over the destruction of Jerusalem. And Judah, even though God's bringing it, even though it's his judgment, is not to be boasted in, is not to be gloated over. It's disaster from the Lord that comes down on his people. And it is a sobering, sobering thing. But nonetheless, it is coming. It is coming. Um and the people are going to Make yourselves bald and cut your hair for the children of your delight. This is this is a sign of of lament, a sign of mourning. There's there's a warning. Whenever God sends warning, like we saw with Jonah going to Nineveh, Whenever God sends warning, he's sending it so that people will repent. Remember when Jonah went to Nineveh, the people did repent. Well, here comes Micah. He's adding his voice to Isaiah's voice. He's adding his voice to Amos' voice. And what are they saying to him? Oh yeah, we want to hear this. Nope. Let's jump down to chapter 2, verse 6. Do not preach. Thus they preach. One should not preach of such things. Disgrace will not overtake us. Can you imagine if the people of Nineveh had responded to Jonah that way? They would have been destroyed in 40 days. But they didn't. They repented, and the people of God did not. So interesting that we're going from Jonah to Micah, because you can see the contrast. These people, these people who call themselves God's people, who say they call upon the name of the Lord, they do not want to hear the straight preaching of God's Word. They want to be told what they want to hear. Paul warned against this in 2 Timothy chapter 4. He said The days will come when people will no longer put up with sound doctrine, but they'll gather for themselves uh preachers who will tell them whatever their itching ears want to hear. And Micah says kind of the same thing here in verse 11. If any man should go about in utter wind and lies, saying, I will preach to you of wine and strong drink, he would be the preacher for this people. They want the ones who are going to tell them how great they are and how God's on their side and let's all, you know, have confidence and brighter days are coming. And that's just not the truth. It's just not the truth. So, what do we take away from these opening chapters of Micah? Whenever we hear the word of God, Say to us hard things that we don't necessarily want to hear. Will we submit? Will we obey? Will we repent? Will we cry out? If we see patterns of judgment from the Lord in the world, will we lament proclaim and intercede. So will we be like Micah and be the bearers of unwelcome news? That might get you some of the suffering we talked about yesterday in 1 Peter 4. And if it comes to us and it's confronting us about our idolatry, will we respond in humility, repentance, faith, and obedience? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are your people by your grace and for your glory. And those are not just throwaway words. It is entirely by your grace, by your divine favor that is undeserved that we are your people and we've been made your people so that we can glorify and enjoy you. It's a privilege and a calling. May we be faithful to it. May we be faithful to it, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Micah chapter 2 and 1. Tomorrow 3 and 4 are on tap. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord