Good morning and welcome to Journey Through Acts. This is a devotional series through the book of Acts in which we are re-presenting Presenting devotional studies that were done in Acts as part of our three-year journey through the Bible that we did as a church from 2022 to 2024. Let's turn our attention now to God's Word. Anyway, day 484 brings us to Acts chapter 14. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we continue following Paul and Barnabas on this first missionary journey. Father, thank you for the example of Paul and Barnabas as faithful missionaries who set the example for faithful missions in the world. We pray that you would be our teacher in Acts 14 today. And write it on our hearts and shape our lives by your word and your spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, Acts chapter 14 Now at Iconium they entered together into the Jewish synagogue and spoke in such a way that a great number of both Jews and Greeks believed. But the unbelieving Jews Stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brothers, so they remained for a long time speaking boldly for the Lord, who bore witness to the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands. But the people of the city were divided, some sided with the Jews, and some with the apostles. When an attempt was made by both Gentiles and Jews, with their rulers, to mistreat them And to stone them, they learned of it, and fled to Lystra and Derby, cities of Lyconia, uh Lycaonia, with and the and the surrounding country. And there they continued to preach the gospel. Now at Lystra there was a man sitting who could not use his feet He was crippled from birth and had never walked. He listened to Paul speaking, and Paul, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to be made well, said in a loud voice, Stand upright on your feet. And he sprang up and began walking. And when the crowd saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in Lycaonian, The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul Hermes, because he was the chief speaker. And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was at the entrance to the city brought oxen and garlands to the gates and wanted to offer sacrifice with the crowds. But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it They tore their garments and rushed into the crowd, crying out, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of like nature with you, and we bring you good news that you should turn from these vain things to a living God who made the heaven and the earth, the sea and all that is in them. In past generations he allowed all nations to walk in their own ways, yet he did not leave himself without witness For he did good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with good, with food and gladness. Even with these words, they scarcely restrained the people from offering sacrifice to them. to them. But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and having persuaded the crowds, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead. But when the disciples gathered about him, he rose up and entered the city. And on the next day he went on with Barnabas to Derby. When they had preached the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium. and to Antioch, strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. And when they had appointed elders for them in every church with prayer and fasting, they committed them to the Lord, in whom they had believed. Then they passed through Pisidia and came to Panthilia, and when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Adaliah. And from there they sailed to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work that they had fulfilled And when they arrived and gathered the church together, they declared all that God had done with them, and how he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles and they remained no little time with the disciples. Well, this is the first missionary journey. really in the history of the church as Paul and Barnabas, and boy, they do not have an easy time of it. It's so interesting this uh this response they get. at li at Lystra where they they they heal this man who was crippled in his feet and all the people say the gods have come down to us and and and the crowds go from praising them as gods, calling them Zeus and Hermes, to then stoning them to death. Stoning Paul to death and leaving him for dead. It's really quite a compelling turn of events. But that's that's the way it is with fickle crowds, and that's what happens when you play to be popular. The very crowd that in one breath is ready to hail you as a god, in the next breath is ready to stone you to death because People are fickle. Uh, and that's just we don't ever ever want to live for people. I mean, it's wrong to live for people's approval anyway, but it's also foolish to live for people's approval. Alright, so at Iconium, Paul's regular pattern here, Paul and Barnabas, they go into the synagogue and they reason with the Jews, and when the Jewish people say, we don't want to have anything to do with this, then they go to the Gentiles. But at Anonium, the unbelieving Jewish people stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brothers, so they really weren't even able to go. to the Gentiles uh and and take them the gospel, which has been their pattern. We'll go to the synagogue, we'll bear witness there, and when they kick us out, we'll go to the Gentiles. But they can't even really get to the Gentiles because the minds of the Gentiles had been poisoned already. And so they're they're really driven out of town. Uh they're going to mistreat them, they're going to stone them, they hear about it and they get out of town. They get out of town, they go to Lystra and Derby, which are cities in the Lackaonia region there in Asia Minor. This is all in Asia Minor in in present day Turkey. So they go into Lystra. Uh sometimes say Lystra, sometimes say Lystra. It's Lystra, I think is the right way to say it, but You know, I just go back and forth, so I apologize for that. Yeah, and here's where this crowd is ready to make them gods. Now if if Paul and Barnabas were self-serving, if they were like so many people who enter into ministry because it seems like a good way to make a comfortable living without having to do too much work. If that had been the mindset of Paul and Barnabas, which is a horrible mindset then they would have simply taken the praise of the crowd and taken the gifts the crowd had given them and accepted the praise of men and sort of maybe told themselves, well we have to meet them where they are and we'll just patiently work with them over time to help them make a gradual transition. We don't want to be offensive. We wanna want to drive people away from the gospel. No. They realize that what these people are doing is evil, it is it is wicked, it is foolish, and so they directly confront it and they do give the gospel. Now they don't do it in an obnoxious way. They don't say, you guys are wicked and evil. If you don't stop right now, we're going to call fire down for them to spike strike you down. They realize they're acting out of ignorance. They're acting out of a sincere misguided belief system but they testify to the truth they testify to truth first of all who they are we are Men. We're men of like nature with you. But listen, we do bring you good news. We do bring you good news of a living God, not these vain things of Zeus and Hermes, but of a living God. Who made the heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them. See, they give a clear, passionate and yet compassionate testimony of the truth. They want to see these people turn to the truth. And so they give them this word, this gospel proclamation, and yet even with this people want to offer sacrifice to them until These outsiders come in from Antioch and Iconium, these Jewish leaders, and they come in and they say, these guys are trouble. We just need to get rid of them. See, they're confusing you, they're manipulating you, they're mocking you, they're horrible. Let's just get rid of them. And they take them and They stone them, they stone Paul to death. I think Paul actually dies here. That's my opinion. Text doesn't explicitly state it, but they stone him and they drag him out of the city. They suppose that he's dead. There's no signs of life. And so he was stoned and left for dead. Um But the disciples come They gather about him, they pray, and he rises up. This word rises up can be used of resurrection. He rises up and he enters the city. And then the next day he goes on to Derby. So they're heading out further away. But after they preach the gospel in Derby and they get many disciples in Derby, they come back to Lystra where they hit the where he had been stoned to death. Then they go back to Iconium, which had sent the troublemakers to stir up trouble against them. And then they go back to Antioch, which had also sent troublemakers. So this is courage. This is godly Boldness and courage to say, yes, this is where I was stoned and left for dead. I've been gone for some time. Now I'm going to go back because there are believers here. Why would they go back? They're strengthening the souls of the disciples. Verse 22. They're not content to just say, okay, we got some people to make professions of faith. We won some converts. We don't need to come back again. God will take care of them. They're not going to do that. They're going to strengthen the souls of disciples, verse 22, and then verse 23. They're appointing elders for them in every church. So important. Verses 22 and 23 are such an important pattern for missions, for faithful missions. Missions is not just about Spreading the gospel, getting people to make some sort of response, and then ditching them. You stay long enough to encourage the souls of the disciples, encourage them to continue in the faith. and appoint elders in every church. Perhaps those who were already believers, who had come from other towns, maybe even some of them might have even been at Pentecost and heard the gospel there, or they might have been ones who who showed a remarkable gift of God for for learning and growing. But they they strengthen the souls of the disciples. They're making disciples and planting churches. That's the point here. Missions is not about winning converts and racking up numbers. Missions is about making disciples and planting churches. And that requires patience, perseverance through tribulation, leadership development, prayer, and fasting. That's the work of missions. It is faithfulness, perseverance. That's what Paul shows us. And then they go back to Antioch in Syria. This had been Pisidian Antioch that they were in in verse 21. But now they go back. They go through Pisidia, they come to Pamphylia, then they go to Perga, then they go to Adelaide, and then they set sail to Antioch. So there's two different Antiochs. There's Antioch in Syria, which is on on the east coast of the Mediterranean, north of Israel, and then there's Pasidian Antioch, which is in Asia Minor or Turkey. So it's Pasidian Antioch, which had sent the troublemakers to stone Paul in Lystra, where he had planted a church and he was back, but then he ends up going all the way back to Antioch of Syria is the sending church. That's the sending church that in chapter thirteen when uh Mike was teaching on that a few days ago, that's the church that sent them out. They go back to the ascending church in They give a report. This is also a pattern that's set fresh missions. When churches send out missionaries to go do the work, the missionaries should be sent out by a church. They should be going to make disciples and plant churches and train leadership for those churches, and they should come back and make a report about the work that they've been doing. That's the regular pattern of faithful missions and I pray that Forest Hill Church will always be a faithful mission supporting, mission-sending, and mission-serving church, just like the church in Antioch. Let's pray. Father, thank you for giving us such a gospel, and thank you for giving us the gift of the church. Thank you for calling us to make disciples plant churches. Send forth missionaries, support them, encourage them, pray for them, strengthen them, and hear reports from them so that we can be encouraged by the work you are doing. Thank you for the work you're doing through the missionaries that we support at Forest Hill, through Reaching Africa's Unreached. in Uganda, South Sudan, and Sudan through Reformation Hope, Souls Winning Ministries in Haiti, through uh Reformed University Fellowship International. Campus of Johns Hopkins. We thank you for these missionaries who are faithfully serving you. They are making disciples. They are planting churches. They are training up leaders for the church. They are reaching people with the gospel of Jesus Christ. They are sending the gospel out to the nations. We pray that you bless them and keep them and that you would continue to bless your gospel for the nations, for your church, and for the glory of your name in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining us for Journey Through Acts. We're going through the book of Acts one chapter at a time in this devotional series. If you would like all of the devotional studies that we did on every chapter of the Bible, they're available. Well on our YouTube channel, you can just go to YouTube and search for Forest Hill PCA and then look for the playlist on Walking with Jesus through the Bible. We took three years to go one chapter per day through the entire Bible. We hope that's a blessing to you. To you. May the Lord bless you and keep you and hope you can join us next time.