Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and this is our last day in the Gospels together. Week 41, day two, by my count, that's 202 days. Together in the Gospels, we come to the end of John, John 21, verses 20 to 25. Asking the question, don't you wish we knew even more about Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Please write your word on our hearts. Thank you for this time we've had together in your word this year. We pray that the Gospels would just take deep root in our souls and would bear fruit for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, John chapter 20. Verses John 21, verses 20 to 25. Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them. The one who also had leaned back against him during the supper and had said, Lord, who is it that is going to betray you? When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man? Jesus said to him, If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me. So the saying spread abroad among the brothers that this disciple was not going to die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he was not going to die. But if it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? This is the disciple who is bearing witness about these things, and who has written these things. And we know that his testimony is true. Now there are also many other things that Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. So we come to the end of the Gospels. It's clear from the beginning to the end of John's Gospel that this is the last gospel. He's he's he's writing this sum total of Gospel knowledge. In the beginning was the word. Up until the end, the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. Like Revelation. John has this sort of knack of writing these things that just have such a finality at the end of them that's like, okay, this this is it. It's clearly John knows he's the last living apostle, this is the last real gospel. That's going to be written. There were rumors circulating in the church that John's going to remain alive until Jesus returned, and so he clears that up here. He's maybe on exile already in the island of Patmos. He probably knows he's not going to live. So he's clearing up this rumor that he was going to remain alive, but no. Even though it's been maybe decades since the other disciples, the other apostles have died, um, John knows it's time for him to go. So he includes this detail at the end of this gospel to clarify the truth behind these rumors. John Jesus did not say that John was going to remain alive until he returned. Uh he's just rebuking Peter's curiosity. What is that to you? Right? What is that to you? Reminds me of what Aslan says in Narnia. No one is told any story but their own. Peter was told about Peter's story. John's story is none of Peter's business. So John closes then his gospel by attesting to his own eyewitness. This is the disciple bearing witness about these things, and who has written these things, and we know that his testimony is true. And then this sort of finality. Many, many other books could be written, but this is it. Right? This is what we've written here. Now, you may be aware that after John's death and after the end of the Apostolic Age, there were other so-called gospels that came along and that claimed to be written by eyewitnesses of Jesus. They weren't. They were written decades after the death of John, after the end of the Apostolic Age. And so A gospel written by a man who had been with Jesus is vastly different from a gospel written some hundred years later and claiming to be based on the teachings of a disciple who was long dead, like Barnabas or Mary even. These so-called gospels are really mythological fabrications. There's some truth, but there's a lot of error, and they're woven together by by future generations. of Christians who are not even really Orthodox Christians staying with the church. They're trying to create division within the church. That's really what they're there for. Now John acknowledges that much more could be written about Jesus, of course. In fact, he says the whole world would not be able to contain all the books that could be written about all the deeds of Jesus. And so sometimes as believers, we wish we had more information, don't we? We wish we knew more about Jesus' teachings and miracles, his personality, his conversations, and such desires can keep us longing for the time. when we will be face to face with Jesus forever, when faith will no longer be our guide, but will finally give way to sight. And that's a wonderful thing. But in the meantime, we do have these four gospels And they are different from each other, and yet they are in complete harmony with their picture of Jesus. We have so much of Jesus in these four Gospels that we can read them. Again and again we can dig deeper each time. We can see more than we saw before. We've spent over two hundred days together in these four gospels, but Before this, you know, we walked through the whole Bible chapter by chapter, and so we did a day on every chapter in the Gospels, and we could go through it again and still see more new things. I've read through the Gospels dozens of times. And every time there's something new. There's something that hits differently or that strikes me differently because of the circumstance of life that I'm in. And so every day we have an opportunity to go into the Gospels and explore them more deeply. So as we close our time together in the Gospels for this year, May it not be the end, but an invitation to go back and read more and more. If we wish we knew more about Jesus, well a lifetime of study awaits us. As we read slowly, carefully, and lovingly, seeing more of Jesus every time we do so. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for giving us four gospels that are rich and complete and deep and nuanced and complex and challenging. They offer us a lifetime's worth of study. May we be devoted students of your word because we are devoted disciples of your Son. It's in his name and to his glory we pray. Amen. Well, that's a wrap on walking with Jesus through the Gospels, but hopefully not a wrap on walking with Jesus through the Gospels in life. Have a blessed day in the Lord.