We are finishing our summer series in the Psalms with Psalm 139. Psalm 139. We've been looking at psalms that talk about the Lord as King of creation. And we finish with a very personal psalm. How the Lord is my King personally, and yet He remains the King of creation, even as He is my King. Ruling over all and ruling over my life in a very personal way. Psalm 139. To the choir master, a psalm of David. O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it all together. You hem me in behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it. Where shall I go from your spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night, even the darkness is not dark to you. The night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. For you formed my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret intricately woven in the depths of the earth, your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written Every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them. How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them! If I would count them, they are more than the sand. I awake, and I am still with you. Oh, that you would slay the wicked, O God. O men of blood, depart from me. They speak against you with malicious intent. Your enemies take your name in vain. Do I not hate those, O Lord? Do I not loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with complete hatred. I count them my enemies. Search me, O God. And know my heart. Try me. And know my thoughts. And see if there is any grievous way in me. And lead me in the way everlasting. Oh Father Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. That you would know us so well, that you would love us. So well that you would order our days and guard us so well. Father, we need your grace. We need your Holy Spirit to really write this psalm on our hearts so we believe it and we receive it and we live it. For these life-changing words are words of life from you, the giver of life. So speak to us. Help us to listen. Prepare our hearts. Help us to receive. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. There is a bit of a paradox in the human condition. At the very heart of what it means to be human, we have a deep and profound longing to be truly known and deeply loved. And yet, we also live with this fear that if we were truly known, we would be shunned and shamed instead of loved. And so we long to be known and to be loved, and yet we live in fear of exposure of the darkest aspects. of our thoughts, of our private lives being found out to our shame and rejection. My guess is that if there was some new scientific gizmo that could attached to your brain and record all of your thoughts in movie form. And I asked for a volunteer who would be willing to wear this device for a week so that we could view a summary reel of it next Sunday that not a hand would go up. In fact, you would probably sit on your hands just to prevent the possibility of being misinterpreted. And yet, we long to be known and loved in a deep and intimate way. This summer we've been exploring and celebrating and learning to see more clearly how the Lord is the King of creation and how we can worship Him. when we see his handiwork around us and how we can proclaim him to the world that needs to know that there is a king who reigns over creation. We've seen that the works of God show his power and his might from the redwood trees to the stars that spread across the sky, to the pounding of the ocean waves and the moving of the tides, to the hum of the hummingbird wing. God's works are on display all around us. And we also have seen that God's steadfast love is seen and how he cares for creation, how he gives to all their food in due time. feeds and cares for billions and billions of living things that populate his world. He is a great and good king. And as we close the summer series, we come down to this personal level of seeing that this great and majestic King of creation, this King eternal that we pray to for Him to lead us on, that He is with us as our King. He is my King. He is one who knows me completely inside and out. He is one who is with me always, and I can never be separated from his presence with me. He is one who made me wonderfully and who has written the story of my life in his book, and he is one who changes me profoundly from the inside out. So as we go through Psalm 139, we're going to do that in in four stages. First, we're going to see in verses one to six how well my king knows me. My king knows me perfectly. And then in verses 7 through 12, we're going to see how our King is with me. My King is with me always, without exception. And then in the third section, we'll see how my king has made me. My king has made me wonderfully, and he has written the story of my life in his book wonderfully. And then the last part in verses 17 to 24, we're going to look at how knowing my king changes me. It changes the way I think about him. It changes the way I think about this world. It changes the way I think about myself. So, first verses one through six again. O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways, even before a word is on my tongue. Behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You hem me in behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it. God knows us perfectly. He knows every nook and cranny of our being, body, and soul. And not just when we're laying still in our bed at night, but all the time, at all times and in all situations. That's what's meant by when I sit down and when I rise, my path and my lying down. It's in all seasons of life, in all situations of life, no matter what we're doing and where we are And he's not just watching us externally like a video camera that's always on us from the outside. He knows our thoughts from afar, meaning he knows what I'm thinking more clearly than I do. You ever struggle with not even being aware of what you're thinking or why your thoughts are going in the way that they're going? And God knows perfectly. He knows the end of your thinking from the beginning. He sees your thoughts from afar before you even have them. He also knows what I'm going to say before I say it. Which means he knows both the things that I say out loud as well as those things that I stop myself from saying right before I let them out, but I wasn't going to say them, and God knows it Do we get the reality of this? I mean this is a real, this is real, practical, daily truth. My internet browsing has no private mode when it comes to God and his knowledge of me My wife and I have no private closed door conversations that are away from the ears and eyes of God. When I smile and tell someone what they want to hear, God knows what I'm really thinking about that person, and He knows the real reasons why I don't speak my mind more clearly. Not only does God know me perfectly, but his hand is on me. He keeps me, he prepares the way before me, and he guards me in all of my ways. Now, at one level God knows all of this about all people. But that's not really what David's talking about here. David's not talking about primarily the general way in which God knows all people. He's talking about the special, intimate, loving, relational way that God knows all of those who are his own. Specifically when David says, you hemm me in behind him before and you lay your hand upon me, that is a personal, relational guidance that is not true of all people, although God is the Lord over everything. We saw a little glimpse of this in verse 6 of Psalm 138 that we read earlier for our call to confession. Though the Lord is on high, he regards the lowly, but the haughty he knows from afar. You see there's a difference there. The one he regards The other he knows from afar. His heart is not with them. And so the lowly are those who look to the Lord. The lowly are those who depend upon the Lord. The lowly are those who trust in the Lord And God regards, has regard for, has an intimate care of those who are his children. Those who are not his children, he still knows. He still knows, but from afar. But perfectly. So what's your reaction to knowing that God knows you perfectly in this way? My guess is that your reaction to that is one of the truest reflections of whether or not you really love God. And you really trust him. Oh, you're a nice church-going, respectable folk. You're here in church on Labor Day weekend. Clean up nice, put on a good face. But if you know, if you really believe that God knows you that well, if there is a resentment, if there is a How dare he? Why can't I just have my privacy? Why won't he just leave me alone? That whisper of your heart reveals the truth. About how you feel about God. And it's not Fundamentally an orientation of love and trust. It's one of suspicion and mistrust and disregard and just wanting to be left alone. But if your heart says what David says, this is too wonderful. This is too wonderful that God would know me that way and love me. And be for me. You see, God's the one who sees that movie of your thoughts and every moment of your life and And he says, and he's perfect, and he's holy, and he's without sin, and he still looks at you and says, This is my child whom I love. And if you know God and you trust God, that should be the most marvelous and astounding thing. And we should just be in awe and wonder and gratitude. That God would know us that well and would still love us. But God doesn't just know us, He's always with us. Verses 7 to 12, where shall I go from your spirit? Where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, that's the land of the dead, the abode of the dead. If I were to even go there, which is not physically possible, but if I could go there, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea Even there your hand will lead me and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night, even the darkness is not dark to you The night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. Just like God's perfect knowledge of us, His in our inability to escape from God's presence can bring us either terror or comfort. You might read this and you might think, well, if David's saying, Where shall I go from your spirit, where shall I flee from your presence, is David trying to run away from God? No, I don't think he is trying to run away from God. At the end, he closes this with a prayer inviting God to search him and know him still more. But he's imagining, could there possibly be a place where I could go where God would not be with me? And again, that could lead to resentment or rejoicing, depending on whether you trust the God who is with you. But then on another level, even if we trust God and we're comforted by the fact that He's always with us, it can raise some hard questions still. Because God is always with us? Like always? What about when we sin badly What about when we're sinned against? What about when we're hurt or abused? Is God with us then too? When we ask these really hard questions, it's helpful at that point to note that this is a psalm of David. And to know something about his life, because one thing we know about David is that David sinned greatly, and David was sinned against greatly. David committed adultery with Bathsheba, and then he plotted to have her husband killed when her husband wouldn't cooperate in his design to cover up his adultery. And God was with him. And God's fall, and God knew. What did God think of that? When David sinned in that horrible, horrible way. Well, we don't have to guess. You can read it yourself in 2 Samuel chapters 11 and 12. We know that God hated David's sin, but God continued to love David And the reason why we know that is that God sent his prophet Nathan to confront David in his sin. To say, you thought this was a secret, but it's not a secret. God knows all. And yet, as soon as David says, I've sinned against the Lord, Nathan says, Your sins already forgiven. So in our sin, yes, God is with us, and yes, God hates our sins thoroughly because he's holy and he knows what our sin does to us and what our sin does to other people. This is not an excuse to say, well, God doesn't care Because he's always with me, and I'm sinning, and he's still with me, so I can just keep right on sinning. No, God is with you and He hates your sin and He gave His Son to save you from your sin and He has committed to making you more like his son who is without sin. He hates your sin more than you could ever imagine because he sees more clearly than you do how much it's costing you and how much it's costing those around you and how much devastation it does. in his world. He hates your sin, but he loves you. We have that old cliche of hate the sin, but love the sinner. We don't really get that. But God hates our sin, but loves us. David didn't just sin grievously, though, he was sinned against. His older brothers bullied him and hated him. His king, Saul, whom he served faithfully, hated and resented David and persecuted him, seeking to kill him again and again. Again and then when finally Saul was killed for his own sin, David expected That the nation would now recognize what they knew to be true, and that is that God had called and anointed David to be the next king of Israel, but most of his nation rejected him and chose one of Saul's sons, even though they knew that David was God's chosen. And then years later, David's son Absalom led a rebellion against him and overthrew him, slept with his concubines in the sight of all Israel, and sought to have him killed. David spent years of his life suffering under injustice and persecution that was brutal and violent, and yet God was with him. And God's hand was on him. And there were times when God showed that very, very clearly, when twice he was able to escape from Saul's hand. In in in a way where David had an opportunity to actually kill Saul, but he didn't because he wouldn't stretch out his hand against the Lord's anointed. This was God's way of saying, I see you, David, I am with you, David, my hand is on you, David. I am rescuing you out of this, David. When you are grievously sinned against and you are hurting, God is with you. God sees your pain. God knows your suffering. God hates the sin that's being done to you more than you do. Do you believe that? When you are sinned against, you hate that sin that's being done to you. God hates it more. And he has given everything he has to ensure that one day you will be completely free from it. You will be delivered. And you will never suffer again. And even though it cost him his one and only son to pay that price, he willingly paid it. As Romans 8 puts it, nothing can separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Nothing. Not our own sin, not the sin of others against us. We are always with him, and he is always with us. Well, our King who knows us so personally, inside and out, and who is always with us, is also our Creator who formed us each personally, individually in his image. Verses 13 to 16 For you formed my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them. This is again more tender, personal, and intimate language. You formed my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb. We recently rediscovered a blanket that my mom had knitted for me several years ago. I have a problem with throw blankets. You know, the blankets that you have on the couch that you put on you when you're lying on the couch or whatever. I have a problem with all of them Can anyone guess what that problem is? They're too small. They're too short. So my mom knitted me a blanket that is this high. And we recently rediscovered it. Um it had been packed away in some blankets and I was kind of curious and it it came out again. And It reminded me of that loving care that my mom took to hand-knit that blanket for me. God knitted you together in your mother's womb We've been learning all summer about how wonderful God's works are. God's works are wonderful. We've talked about all sorts of aspects of God's creation that are wonderful. But you know what? God spoke the rest of his creation into being. When it came time to make Adam Two things unique about Adam. He was made in the image of God, and he was formed by the hands of God. It's actually interesting imagery related to Christ within creation itself. You see, how did God make everything? He spoke his word And John 1 tells us in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and then the Word became flesh and dwelt among us. The Word that God spoke in creation, the Word of God is the second person of the Trinity, God the Son, who later became incarnate as Jesus of Nazareth, our Lord. He was the agent of creation. He was the one through whom God made the heavens and the earth. But then when it came time to form Adam, he formed him. This same word that's here twice about formed me in my inward parts and formed my days. God formed, He handmade, He hand sculpted Adam from the dust of the earth. And that required a kind of incarnation for there to be hands to sculpt. The dirt, God had to get his hands dirty. And as in creation, there was a more intimate process in redemption. God the Son becomes dirty fully human, he becomes fully incarnate in order to be our Redeemer. Listen, we live in a social media age where people take three hundred and twelve selfies. And then go through the scroll and find the one that looks the best. And then they put a filter on it. And then they put it up on Instagram And it's like, this is me, this is what I look like. And it's so easy to see that, and then we look in the mirror, we're like, who is that ugly old dude looking back at me? But Psalm 139 tells us the truth. God made us in his image All of God's works are wonderful. Our soul knows that very well. And so we also are fearfully and wonderfully made. God made you the way He made you because He wanted you. No one else like you. You. And it's not just us whom God formed. God also formed our days. Look at verse sixteen. In your book were written every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them. The way that's commonly taken, and the way I've always heard that verse interpreted, is God has numbered your days. Right? No one ever dies before they're supposed to, and no one ever lives longer than they're supposed to. God has numbered your days. They're all numbered out for you. But here's the thing about that verse. Does it say God has numbered your days? No? It says God has written every one of your days, days that were formed for you. That is much more detailed, that is much more specific, and that is much more personal. Before you were even born, before you were even conceived. God had written out for you every one of the days that He has formed for you. Which means every day we're given is a gift from God that God has prepared for us, for our good and for his glory. Wait a minute. What about all those dark days and all those hard days? And all those days that we would never want to go back and relive. Yes, those days too. God has written them for our good. In Scripture He gives us glimpses how the day when Joseph was sold into slavery by his brothers was actually the day of their salvation? Because it got him to Egypt, where he was going to be prime minister and he was going to save them from a famine that would have taken their lives Where we see how Esther ended up being sort of peddled off to the king by her uncle Mordecai. It's a lot of dark behind the scenes in Esther that we don't quite get. I have a beautiful niece. I think I'll put her in the harem of the king. But she was put there for a purpose. She was put in a position where she was essentially the property of the king who could call her life or death at a whim, but for a purpose so that God's people would be rescued. And of course, the greatest example that we're given of all is the greatest injustice that's ever been done in the history of the world and the darkest, literally the darkest day in the history of the world. And that is the only day when in the middle of the day the sky went black. And that's when the perfect Son of God hung, humiliated, on a Roman cross. But that day was the day of our salvation. And so, yes, even the darkest days of your life, even those days that you don't even want to think about, you want to pretend they didn't even happen, those days too God has formed and written for your good. Well now in this life I don't think we get answers to how But in eternity I think we will. We'll see. We'll be able to look back and see. Okay, I see the end of the story now and I see that if that didn't happen to me, this wouldn't have happened to me, and how God was shaping me in this way. for this way. Let me give you maybe one answer as to the why question. The only one who can answer all the why questions is God, and he has said that we need to trust him, and he's shown us how much he loves us. But one answer to the why question is found in this. How often have you been in a conversation with someone going through something really difficult, really hard? And you can empathize with them because you've been through something very similar And you can tell them how God brought you through that and give them hope that if God brought you through that, God might bring them through that too. Right? Not saying that's the whole answer, but part of that is our miseries become our ministries. As God brings us through them. We can go back and we can say, oh, cancer? Yes. I've been through cancer. Oh, losing a parent? Yes, I've been through losing a parent. And we can share the love of God and the hope that we wouldn't have that story to tell, that empathy to offer, that hope and encouragement if God had not brought us through that ourselves. Well, in the final part of this psalm, we find out how knowing my king changes me in verses 17 to 24. How does knowing God this way change us? Well, three things I think we see in these verses. First, that we should be in awe of how much God thinks of us. And the second is that we should hate the enemies of God as our enemies. And third is that we should want God to know us still more and more and teach us to know ourselves better and to live better in the light of what He knows of us. Verses 17 and 18, how precious to me are your thoughts, O God. You could also translate that as, how precious toward me are your thoughts, O God. How vast is the sum of them. If I would count them, they are more than the sand. I awake. I am still with you. How precious toward me are your thoughts. God's thoughts toward you are precious. God cares for you. You matter to him. You are prized. And that's part of what we should see here. And we should be overwhelmed at that. And we should think, if God knows my every thought, if God knows my every word, both spoken and unspoken, if God knows my every movement, if God knows my every moment, God's thinking about me an awful lot. And he is. He's thinking about you more than the sand, more than the grains of sand, right? So if you're going to go to the beach, kids, I have a challenge for you. If you go to the beach one more time this summer, like we're planning on doing tomorrow Get just a cup of sand. It can be a small cup. It can be a thimble. But get just a cup of sand and count all the grains in it. And then look out on that beach and realize that's how often God thinks of you. His thoughts toward us are precious and uncountable. Some people think, oh God's too busy with bigger and more important things than to be bothered with me and my petty little problems. There's a war going on in Ukraine, there's conflict in Israel, there's economic troubles. God's got too much on his plate. To worry about me and my little issues. But Psalm 139 is a direct challenge to that kind of thinking. God is never too busy God never has too much to do. God is not stressed out trying to figure out what his priorities for his time management should be. When we ever we start to think like that, we need to stop ourselves because what we're really doing is reshaping God in our image He does not like us. God is so awesome and so powerful and so great that he knows all, he sees all, he understands all, and he rules all things perfectly without ever breaking a sweat And yet, among all the things that he cares for in all of his creation, nothing is more precious or gets a higher priority than his children. Parents, is there anything more important in your life than your children besides your marriage? Right? But we are both Christ's marriage and God's children. There's nothing more important. God doesn't have higher priorities. Knowing that God loves us that way, and it ought to just make us in awe, and it ought to make us worship. And it ought to also make us righteously angry about the things that raise up their ugly heads against God and against his good love. You ever hear someone who's a skeptic or an atheist talk about God and talk about Christianity? You think, what is your problem? You don't even know what you're talking about. That is what do you what are you even saying? Like t it would be like if someone were to you know, badmouth your spouse or or badmouth one of your children and they don't even know them and they make up all this wild crazy accusations. You think what you don't even know this God and I do, and you're saying all sorts of things that are just wrong. They speak against you with malicious intent. Your enemies take your name in vain. That is just wrong. To talk about God that way, to think about God that way, to act toward God in that way Now be honest here. How many of you, when you're reading Psalm 139, reading through it, you get to verse 19 to 22 and you're like, ugh. That just seems it seems like an interruption, right? I awake, I am still with you. Oh, that you would slay the wicked, oh God! Oh men of blood, depart from me. Like, wait a minute, where did this come from? Like it'd be like listening to a nice gentle love ballad, and then all of a sudden someone breaks into a few chords of like a heavy metal song. That just seems completely discordant and out of place. Why would you do that in the middle of this beautiful poem? But David's not out of place The more you love someone, the more it hurts you to see them being attacked. The more precious someone is to you, the more upsetting it is to you when that person is unfairly hated and despised. God feels that way about us Remember what Jesus said to Saul of Tarsus when he met him on the road to Damascus? He said to him, Why are you persecuting me? Now was Saul persecuting Jesus personally? He was just persecuting Christians, right? Followers of Jesus. But Jesus took it personally. He said, you're persecuting me, because these are my people. And in a sense, it ought to hit us as, wait a minute, world, you're blaspheming my God, my head, my savior, my treasure. And that's wrong. And it ought to stir up in us a feeling of indignation. But we need to be careful That we translate these verses into a New Testament reality, into a New Testament context. Because, as we sang about in Lead On O King Eternal, we're we're not fighting an earthly battle anymore. David was a king over an earthly geopolitical nation. He fought against physical enemies in battles that involve bloodshed. We don't fight against flesh and blood. Ephesians 6 tells us our struggle is not against flesh and blood but against the principalities, against the powers. And so when we hear someone blaspheme God, it ought to bother us. But we ought to pity them because they're being deceived, and we ought to hate the one who has deceived them and who is leading them astray, and we ought to pray for them to escape from his captivity. You see, we shouldn't hate people. We should hate Satan who holds them captive to do his will. And we should long for the day, because there is a day that is coming when God will rid the world of all of this evil, and we should long for that day. So we should we should hear the blasphemy against God. It should bother us We should pray for that person. We should be angry at Satan for deceiving them, and we should pray, come quickly, Lord Jesus. But we shouldn't hate the person who said that blasphemous thing, because they are being deceived. The Psalm 139 doesn't end on this note of hatred, but it ends with an invitation to God. And this is the third thing that we need to learn. So we need to learn To be in wonder of how much God thinks of us and how precious his thoughts are, we need to learn to hate what is offensive to God and what blasphemes God and where it comes from. And the third thing is we need to learn to pray what David prays in these last two verses. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts and see if there be any grievous way in me and lead me in the way everlasting. What do you pray for when you already know that God knows you perfectly inside and out? Will you ask him to search you out still more and more and then to share with you what he has found so that you might know yourself better You ask him to expose and remove that which is grievous in you. You ask him in his wisdom and love and his goodness to lead you in his way, which is the way everlasting. If God is truly the one who knows me best, better than I know myself, then I should want Him to know me, and I should trust Him to know me, and I should ask Him to show me. Those things that grieve his heart, because I don't want them in my life anymore. I don't want the things that grieve God, whether I see them in someone else's life or I see them in my own life. So this afternoon, when you step outside and you see God's creation. What should our response be? We should be in awe and wonder that the God who made all these things is our God, our King, our Father, our Friend. And if you believe in Jesus Christ and you are a child of God through faith in him, you should know A comfort in your soul that comes from knowing that He knows you, He's always with you, He's created you wonderfully in His image, and He's written a beautiful story for your life, and He's leading you through it day by day. And your desire should be to know this God more and more and to follow him day by day until you're home with him face to face. And if you walk outside and you look at the creation, you think I know there's a God who made all this, and the pastor talked about him in wonderful words, but I don't know him in that personal way And you can cry out to him right now and you can say, Oh Lord, you are God. I want you to be my God. You gave your son for me. I want to trust him and I want to belong to you forever. Finally, one closing question If God, if the God who is the King of creation, says of you that you are the most precious priority for him in all of his vast creation, Shouldn't knowing Him and loving Him be the most precious priority in our lives every day? Let's pray. Father, we need you. And you've given yourself to us. We know you because you have first known us and you've shown yourself to us. Help us to grow in our love for you, our knowledge of you, our precious regard for your word and your ways. Be our God. As we prepare to come to this table that you've prepared for us, feed us, strengthen us, grow us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.