Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Demel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 1062, and we are in Nahum Chapter 2. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It's a gift and a blessing to us every day of our lives. We can spend with you, in your word, learning from you, growing in you. Be our teacher and our guide today. Through Nahum too, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Nahum chapter 2 The scatterer has come upon you. Man the ramparts. Watch the road. Dress for battle. Collect all your strength For the Lord is restoring the majesty of Jacob and the majesty of Israel, as the majesty of Israel. For plunderers have plundered them and ruined their branches. The shield of his mighty men is red. His soldiers are clothed in scarlet. The chariots come with flashing metal on the day he musters them. The Cypress spears are brandished. The chariots race madly through the streets. They rush to and fro through the squares. They gleam like torches. They dart like lightning He remembers his officers, they stumble as they go. They hasten to the wall. The siege tower is set up The river gates are opened, the palace melts away, its mistress is stripped, she is carried off, her slave girls lamenting moaning like doves and beating their breasts. Nineveh is like a pool whose waters run away. Halt, halt, they cry, but none turns back. Plunder the silver, plunder the gold, there is no end of the treasure, or of the wealth of all the precious things. Desolate Desolation and ruin, hearts melt and knees tremble, anguish is in all loins, all faces grow pale. Where is the lion's den? The feeding place of the young lions where the lion and lioness went, where his cubs were with none to disturb. The lion tore enough for his cubs, and strangled prey for his lioness. He filled his caves with prey, and his dens with torn flesh. Behold, I am against you, declares the Lord of hosts. and I will burn your chariots in smoke, and the sword shall devour your young lions. I will cut off your prey from the earth, and the voice of your messengers shall no longer be This is a song against Nineveh. Really the rest of this book is going to be largely focusing on On Nineveh, as we had the opening chapter really focused on the Lord and on his character, chapters two and three focus on Nineveh. And their destruction. There's a lot of um sarcasm in this chapter, a lot of a lot of mocking of these wicked men, but that's You know, they're wicked, they're bloodthirsty, they're murderers. They are people who kill men brutally and then rape and kidnap women and enslaved children, they are they're horrible. And it's one of the things like when people have a problem with the wrath of God as displayed in scripture And they think, well, especially the God of the Old Testament, so the saying goes, is a God of wrath. You know, Jonah knew different. Jonah knew that God was actually a God of mercy. That's why he didn't want to take the message to the Nineveh and God spared these Ninevites for a whole generation when they did repent. But anyway, when people have a problem with it, oh God is a God of wrath and he's so angry and like Well the world is full of evil. Like justice, righteousness gets angry in the face of evil. We do In the things that we know that are evil, when we hear about, you know, child sex exploitation or trafficking, or we hear about rape, or we see or witness or hear about some horrific violent crime, our our heart is stirred up, like, this is not right. Somebody needs to make this right. This is wrong. That person needs to be punished. They're evil. They're doing evil in the world. But what we fail to see, that God sees, is that all human beings do evil in the world. When we gossip and backbite and slander, when we judge and criticize When we call people names and insult them, people are made in God's image. All people are made in God's image. Those we like, those we dislike, those we would consider our friends, those we would consider our enemies. We're called to love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, love our neighbors as ourselves, love our enemies. And when we don't do it, it's evil. When we respond with selfishness, with resentment, with entitlement. With pride, with bitterness, with jealousy, with envy, with coveting, with slandering, with gossiping. That's evil. That's evil. It's not the same kind of evil as the violent kind of evil, but it is still evil. And God is a God of holy and just wrath. When you understand that, you realize how compassionate God is, how patient God is, how tender-hearted God is. I deserve to have been wiped off the face of the earth thousand, thousand times. For things that I've said, things that I've thought, things that I've done. But God sent his son to take my sin. Upon himself. God spared me the wrath that I deserve. God had compassion on me. But he still punished my sin because he has to deal with wickedness, and he did so at the cross of Jesus Christ. Here the Lord is restoring his people. Plunderers have plundered them, but God is restoring them. The way he's restoring them is by taking down their enemies. Another major lesson that I think we need to get from Nahum chapter 2 is that no country Should ever think that it is so mighty that God cannot take it down? Think about the last hundred years of human history. Remember how great and mighty the Soviet Union was in the 70s and 80s? Those of you who are old enough remember that. And yet by the early 90s it was no more. The Eastern Pact, the Warsaw Pact, the Soviet Union, all gone. All gone. completely transformed within the span of five, six years. Think about Hitler and how powerful Nazi Germany was at the height of their powers in the nineteen thirties and then how quickly it all unraveled from the invasion of Poland in nineteen thirty nine to the fall in May of nineteen forty five, six years. for the whole German Empire and their might, which had taken over most of Europe at its peak in 1941. All down. All down to nothing. Occupied by foreign countries, divided up. God judges. And when God judges, when God moves in human history, because God is behind all of these things There's no one who can stand against him. And we as Americans need to take that to heart because if we think that we are beyond the judgment of God, because Because we are so big and we are so strong and we have the world's largest economy and we have the world's most powerful military and we can send ships all over the world to impose the will of the United States. Really? We can We need to remember that Nineveh was mighty, that Babylon was mighty. That Egypt was mighty, that Rome was mighty, and on and on and on the list goes. So we need to be humbled. We need to be humbled. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are holy and just. We personally must repent. And seek the refuge that is found only in Jesus. And then we, as a nation in America, need to be humbled. Because we do much evil and much wickedness, and we think we are so great, but we are less than nothing. Dust on the scale, drop in the bucket, compared to your power and might. Have mercy on us. Have mercy on us. Turn our hearts in repentance We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Nahum chapter two. We just have one more chapter in Nahum to go. Nahum chapter three is on tap for tomorrow. Hope you can join me for For that, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.