Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you on day 1063. It's our third day. In the Minor Prophet of Nahum, we are wrapping up Nahum, just three short chapters. This book, Woe to Nineveh. You see the title of chapter three. That's kind of the whole theme of Nahum. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your love for us. Thank you for your truth so clearly and powerfully and beautifully spoken. Help us to receive this word today, which has some hard things in it. But we know they are true things from you, and things for our good and things for your glory. So help us to receive and to respond in Jesus' name. Amen. Nahum Chapter 3 Woe to the bloody city, all full of lies and plunder, no end to the prey The crack of the whip and rumble of the wheel, galloping horse and bounding chariot, horsemen, charging, flashing sword and glittering spear, hosts of slain, heaps of corpses. Dead bodies without end. They stumble over the bodies. And all for the countless whorrings of the prostitute. Graceful and of deadly charms, who betrays nations with her whorings, and peoples with her charms. Behold, I am against you, declares the Lord of hosts, and I will lift up your skirts over your face, and I will make nations look at your nakedness and kingdoms at your shame. I will throw filth at you and treat you with contempt and make you a spectacle, and all who look at you will shrink from you and say, Wasted is nothing Nineveh, who will grieve for her? Where shall I seek comforters for you? Are you better than Thebes that sat by the Nile? with water around her, her rampart a sea, and water her wall, Cush was her strength, Egypt too, and that without limit Put and the Libyans were her helpers, yet she became an exile. She went into captivity. Her infants were dashed in pieces at the head of every street. For her honored men Lots were cast, and all her great men were bound in chains You also will be drunken. You will go into hiding. You will seek refuge from the enemy. All your fortresses are like fig trees. With first ripe figs, if shaken they fall into the mouth of the eater, behold, your troops are women in your midst. The gates of your land are wide open to your enemies. enemies, fire has devoured your bars. Drop water. Draw water for the siege. Strengthen your forts. Go into the clay. Tread the mortar. Take hold of the brick mould. There will the fire devour you. The sword will cut you off. It will devour you like the locust Multiply yourselves like the locusts. Multiply yourself like the grasshopper. You increase your merchants more than the stars of the heavens. The locust spread its wings. The locust spreads its wings and flies away. Your princes are like grasshoppers, your scribes like clouds of locusts. Settling on the fences in a day of cold. When the sun rises, they fly away. No one knows where they are Your shepherds are asleep, O king of Assyria. Your nobles slumber. Your people are scattered on the mountains, with none to gather them. There is no easing your hurt. Your wound is grievous. All who hear the news about you clap their hands over you, for upon whom has not come your unceasing That is Nahum chapter 3, and it is woe to Nineveh. And the reasons why Nineveh is being destroyed and the things that Nineveh was hoping in are very important for us to consider. So first of all, the reasons why Nineveh was being destroyed. Well, verse four says, All for the countless whorings of the prophets prostitutes, graceful and deadly charms who betrays nations with her whorings and peoples with her charms. Now this is a twofold meaning. There is the literal Nineveh was a place of many, many prostitutes, sexual immorality, selling sex for money. It's one of the oldest tr you know professions in the world. It's been around from the beginning of human civilization. But also The Assyrian Empire luring surrounding powers into profitable alliances and trade arrangements and then subduing them. With military might is also what's in view here. So there is both sexual immorality for sale And there is sort of this combination of economic and military might that lures other nations into alliances and And then subjects the other nations to her will. So at the very end of the chapter, it says, Upon whom have your evils not come? So hmm. Sexual immorality, sex for sale, and economic alliances and military power power to persuade, influence, and subjugate foreign nations. Hmm. Sounds kind of familiar. I think I've sort of read about and heard about those things. Those are the things that they're being judged for. Now what are they trusting in? They're trusting in two things, their military might, and also the wealth and education and influence of their leading people. We see these things in the second part of the chapter. So their military might, they have great fortifications, great fortresses, a great army. But the example of Thebes is brought forward. Thebes had been conquered, like I said when we were in chapter 1, right around 660 BC. So this is probably in the 650. or 640s, something where the conquering of Thebes was well known. It was history, but it wasn't ancient history, and it was something that they knew, they knew about Thebes. They knew how strong it was. They had water all around them. They had the Kushites, who were the most feared warriors in the world as their sort of mercenary army. Egypt. All the wealth of Egypt. All the long-standing history and influence of Egypt. And then you had Put and the Libyans who were neighboring African civilizations that were allies So you had strong fortifications, powerful soldiers, great wealth. And powerful allies. All of these things, these are things that Thebes trusted in and it didn't work out for them. She went into exile, she went into captivity. Right, you also will be drunken. You will go into hiding. So these are the same things that the Assyrians are trusting in All your fortresses, verse 12, are like fig trees. First ripe figs. If they're shaken, they fall into the mouth of the eater. So you can look at a fig tree with very ripe figs just coming into being really ripe. And the fig tree can look large, can look impressive, can look, you know, wow. But you go and shake it and it will just drop its figs right into the mouth. That's where Syria is. It's got these powerful fortifications and yet just a little bit of shaking. And things will start to fall apart. So that's the fortifications. The soldiers, Thebes had the Cushites, they have a powerful army, but the insult here, I know in our day and age this is Politically incorrect, but God just speaks it. Behold your women, your troops are women in your midst. That means they're weak and unable to fight, because in the ancient world women didn't fight. the military. Much more intense hand-to-hand combat with sword and spear and club, and it was men fighting. And so if you had an army of women, it was not gonna be good. And then your gates, they're wide open. So all of those things, the fortification. The fortresses and the soldiers, right? Well then what about the wealthy and influential people? You have merchants. You have princes, you have scribes. And there's so many. The merchants, verse 16, are like the stars in the heaven. The princes are like grasshoppers. Scribes are like clouds of locusts. Scribes, by the way, that's education. That's knowledge. Uh Nineveh had a great library, expansive library with so many trained scribes to record and pass on knowledge and information. None of it's gonna last. None of it's gonna last. They're like grasshoppers and locusts who sit on the fences in in in the day of cold. So if if it's too cold, you know, these little grasshoppers and locusts, they can't even fly. They get kind of of frozen over, but they just sit on the fence, they wait for the sun to rise, and the sun warms them up and then they fly away. And that's basically what they're what's happened. Like Assyria has become complacent. kind of frozen in place in complacency, and when the heat of the battle comes, all of their wealth, all their merchants, all their scribes, all their princes are just gonna go away. Your shepherds are asleep, O King of Assyria. Your nobles slumber. Again, it's like those locusts and those grasshoppers on the cold morning. They're just sort of frozen in place. They don't understand what's really happening in the world. And yet they're trusting in them. The king is trusting in them. So when they are overthrown, there's going to be nobody who is going to cry for them because the whole world has come under their unceasing evil evil. Well, in America we have lots and lots of wealthy people. We have more billionaires and millionaires than any other country in the world. Lots of merchants, lots of great men, lots of experts. We have the leading universities in the world. For the most part, there are of course some in other parts of the world. But we have many of the leading universities in the world, many of the brightest and best students from all around the world come to America to study at our universities. We trust in these things. We think that these things are where it's at. And yet And yet, how many of the wealthy and the influential and the highly educated people in America really understand the truth? They really understand God and his ways, and no, they don't. They're frozen, they're asleep. So I think that Nahum is very, very relevant, especially to those of us who are in America. Now I know there are people who watch this from other parts of the world. And so whatever your country is trusting in these are the kinds of things that people have always trusted. I mean this is written 2600 years ago. The world hasn't changed in what people trust in. They trust in military might, fortifications, alliances, allies, wealthy people, influential people. None of it, none of it will stand. Against the Lord's judgment. If there is evil, sexual immorality If there is evil buying and selling of human beings for pleasure. Yeah? How different is that today? It's not. Seeking to control and influence the world for your own profit, for your own benefit, not caring who gets hurt in the process It's not good. It's not good. We as the church need to be prepared to speak the truth in love, plead for mercy, but also find our refuge in the love. Lord, because the only unshakable refuge, the only stronghold in the day of trouble is the Lord Jesus Christ, who is King over all kings, Lord over all Lords. and who on the last day will stand alone as the sovereign one over all. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that you've given us Jesus, your Son, our Savior The refuge that never fails. May we hide ourselves in Christ today and always. Father, may we speak the truth as your prophets did of old with boldness and clarity. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that was the book of Nahu. One, two, three for three days. Tomorrow, we're going to wrap up the book of Proverbs Which means we're really getting to the end of our reading. Proverbs thirty-one on tap for tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.