Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forestville Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with us today on day 1061. of our three-year journey through the word of God, and we are in the minor prophet Nahum, Nahum the prophet, who has an oracle against Nineveh. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, every part of it. We are so thankful that you speak to us of who you are, of the fullness of your character. You speak to us with clarity and with power and with purpose. We pray that in these coming days as we are in the Prophet Nahum, that you would speak to us. Speak to us today in this opening chapter. Write it on our hearts. Draw us to Jesus. Help us to love you more. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Nahum chapter one, an oracle concerning Nineveh, the book of the vision of Nahum of Elkosh. The Lord is a jealous and avenging God. The Lord is avenging and wrathful. The Lord takes his vengeance on his enemies. The Lord is slow to anger and great in power. And the Lord will by no means clear the guilty His way is in the whirlwind and storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet. He rebukes the sea and makes it dry. He dries up all the rivers Bashan and Carmel wither, the bloom of Lebanon withers, the mountains quake before him, the hills melt. The earth heaves before him, the world and all who dwell in it. Who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the heat of his anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken into pieces by him. The Lord is good. a stronghold in the day of trouble. He knows those who take refuge in him, but with an overwhelming, overflowing flood, he will make a complete end of the adversaries and will pursue his enemies into darkness. What do you plot against the Lord? He will make a complete end. Trouble will not rise up a second time. For they are like entangled thorns, like drunkards as they drink. They are consumed like stubble, fully dried. From you came one who plotted evil against the Lord, a worthless counselor. Thus says the Lord. Though they are at full strength and many, they will be cut down and pass away. Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more. And now I will break his yoke from off you, and I will burst your bonds apart. The Lord has given commandment about you. No more shall your name be perpetuated From the house of your gods I will cut off the carved image and the metal image. I will make your grave, for you are vile. Behold, upon the mountains The feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace. Keep your feasts, O Judah. Fulfill your vows. For never again shall the worthless pass through you. He is utterly cut off. Amen. That is Nahum chapter one. So a little bit of background before we get into chapter one. Nahum, a minor prophet. We can actually fix the date of the Prophet Nahum pretty carefully within about a 30-year period of time because of a couple of things Uh he he makes reference to uh the downfall of Thebes in Egypt. as something that has already occurred. We'll see that in two days when we're in chapter 3. By the way, we're going to do Nehum straight through chapters 1, 2, and 3. And then we're going to go to Proverbs 31. That's what's on tap 4. the rest of this week. So in chapter three he makes reference to the downfall of Thebes as being something that's already occurred. And yet he predicts the downfall of Nineveh as something that has not yet taken place. It's what the prophecy is against. So Thebes was taken around 663 and than uh Nineveh was conquered by the Babylonians in six twelve. So we know that we're between six sixty three and six twelve. But even more so, it's very clear that Assyria is still at the peak. of her of her imperial powers and that really begins to fade uh in i in the 630s and A Siri is not really an international threat on the size and scale that she was after 630. So we're pretty sure that this book is between 660 and 630 BC. Which is interesting because a lot of people, you know, you can connect this book to Jonah. Jonah's another famous minor prophet who had a ministry in Nineveh. And Jonah called Nineveh To repent, really. Well, he just said 40 days Nineveh will be overthrown, and Nineveh repented. Where does this book fit with that? Well, this is kind of the sequel to Jonah. Jonah's preaching did lead to a period of repentance, but by the, this is about a hundred years after Jonah So Jonah is probably around 750, 760 BC. By 720s, the Ninevites, the Assyrians, they've conquered Israel. twenty-two they threaten Judah and Jerusalem in the in the early seven hundreds. And so this is a hundred years later now, probably the six fifties, six forties, probably a hundred years after. Jonah and the Nineveh, the Assyrians, God did have mercy on them, and they did repent, and a whole generation of them experienced the mercies of God. But the next generation that rose up, as often happens. Right, they forget the lessons of the repentance of their previous generation, and they were a bloodthirsty people. They were a violent people The Assyrians, as far as we know in human history, they're the ones who invented the wonderful method of execution known as impaling, where you would take a giant log essentially and sharpen one end of it into sort of a a point and then when someone was conquered by you, especially the leading commanders of the military of your conquered end Enemies, you would take them and you would impale them. You would you would throw them alive onto this giant spike which would go right through their midsection and they would be there for days. Like bleeding, suffering, dying, groaning, crying. It was awful. Absolutely Absolutely awful, but it shows the evil heart of human beings. Human beings are not basically good, despite what our culture wants you to believe. Like, there's lots and lots and lots of evidence from human history that people are capable of horribly cruel and savage and evil things. And the Assyrians, the Ninevites, the Assyrians were were no different. Um, but they were unique in their brutality. They deported whole peoples, they They just were awful. And so God is taking wrath. In Jonah, we see the mercy of God. Remember Jonah complained in my own personal daily Bible reading. The day that I'm recording this, I actually just happened to read Jonah 4 this morning, so that's strengthening for me the connection. between Jonah and Nahum. And remember Jonah complained that God was merciful and gracious and slow to anger and abounding. insteadfast love. That was his complaint to God because he wanted to see Nineveh destroyed. Well, God's patience does come to an end. Verse 3 of Nahum 1 says, The Lord is slow to anger and great in power, and the Lord will by no means clear the guilty. God is not someone who's just going to continue to look the other way. as people do horrible things. The Ninevites repented when Jonah preached, but then a generation later they were out conquering the world. And we see the fullness of the character of God. God is jealous and avenging. He is wrathful. He takes vengeance on his adversaries and keeps wrath for his enemies. He is slow to anger, but he is great in power, and he will not clear the guilty. This is the justice, the holy justice and wrath of God, which we have to take God's whole character, right alongside his merciful and gracious and abounding in steadfast love, we have to understand he's jealous and avenging. Ultimately, these two aspects of really the same character of God, it's the character of God as it encounters human wickedness. The character of God as it encounters human wickedness. The justice, the holiness, the purity, the zeal of the Lord requires that wickedness to be dealt with, to be punished, to be justly Retribution, just retribution poured out against it. But then the mercy of God, the love of God, the compassion of God Is also who God is. And so the cross ultimately is coming straight out of the very heart of God. as the way to reconcile these two things about God and how he encounters sin. God's wrath and God's mercy, God's steadfast love and God's faithfulness, God's justice and God's uh kindness, they come together at the cross. But for those who do not receive the sacrifice of Christ, for those who do not plead to God for mercy, For those who remain enemies of God, God is patient for the whole lifetime of the sinner, slow to anger. But at the end, there's no clearing the guilty. Either Christ paid for your sins or you're going to have to pay for your sins. sins. That's one of the messages we get here from Nineveh. We also see that God rules over all the nations, over all creation. He rebukes the sea, makes it dry, dries up all the rivers, Bation, Carmel wither, the bloom of Lebanon withers, the mountains quake before him, hills melt, earth heaves, world and all who dwell in it. Who can stand before his indignation So the wrath that's coming against Nineveh is a foreshadowing and a foretaste of a global wrath that's going to come upon the whole world when Jesus returns to judge. On the day of the Lord, the whole world will feel the heat of his anger and his indignation. His wrath will be poured out like fire, and the rocks broken in Into pieces and the mountains will fall into the heart of the sea, and God will judge. But in that day of trouble, In the day of judgment, the Lord is good, and he's a stronghold for all those who take refuge in him. But if you will not take refuge in him, He will make a complete end of his adversaries with an overwhelming flood. Some people don't like this. Some people don't like the idea that you either have to bow the knee to King Jesus now. and plead for mercy, or you will be judged by him. They want some other way. They want to plot against the Lord. They want to scheme against God They want to cook up some other way. But that will not happen. That will not happen. God will make a complete end. He made a complete end of the Assyrians. They were replaced by the Babylonians, who then later were judged themselves. But No one who ever seeks to plot against the Lord, no one who ever says to God, I'm not going to have you rule over me, I'll figure out some other way. It's just a foolish and stupid thing to do. Listen to what God says in verse 12 and 13. Though they are at full strength and many, they will be cut down and pass away. That's what happens. For God's people, our affliction at the hands of the Lord, our discipline at the hands of the Lord is temporary. The Assyrians were one of the ways that God disciplined his people, but God's discipline of his own people is temporary. God's judgment of his enemies is eternal. We need to hear that. Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more. But God's judgment of his enemy is permanent. They are consumed like stubble fully dried, verse 10. Though they are at full strength in many, they will be cut down and pass away. God is the judge. Verse 14 and 15. Notice how the judgment of God brings bad news To idol worshipers and good news to God's people. Verse 14: Bad news to idol worshipers. The house of your gods I'll cut off. I'll make your grave, for you are vile. Good news for God's people. Behold upon the mountains the feet of him who brings good news publishes peace, keep your feasts, O Judah, fulfill your vows, for never again shall the worthless pass through you. He is utterly cut off. The Assyrians would not conquer Judah and Jerusalem, though they had wanted to for about a hundred years. They never would. Now God would send Judah into exile into Babylon, but even that would be limited So God's discipline of his own people is always temporary. God's judgment on evildoers is permanent. The day of judgment that is coming when Jesus comes again will be bad news forever for those who oppose God, but good news forever for those who are waiting for his return. Let's live today thankful that Jesus has taken away all of our sins and eagerly waiting for his return. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you that because of the cross, your justice and your mercy met together and our sins were punished. and removed from us. We were forgiven as wrath was poured out on your son. We trust in Jesus. May He be our stronghold in a day of trouble. May He be our rock of refuge. May we respond with humility to your discipline of us, with faith? To your correction of us, and with hope for your promised day of final judgment, we hope for the return of Jesus. Come quickly, Lord Jesus, we pray Amen. Well, that is Nineveh chapter one. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter two. Hope you can join me for that. And I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.