Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 650. of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We are making good progress through God's Word. We're coming toward the end of the book of Nehemiah. Nehemiah 12 today, 13 tomorrow. We'll finish up Nehemiah and then we'll be in the Psalms again on Saturday, Psalms 95 and 96. Well, let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we continue in this wonderful book of Nehemiah together. Father in heaven, you are great and greatly to be praised. You are the Lord who is powerful enough to keep us and who loves us enough. to never fail. In your heart toward us, in your wisdom for us, in your ways toward us, Father, you are good. Help us to trust you. Help us to trust you when it doesn't look like things are going the way they should, when things seem upside down and inside out and backwards and crazy and just wrong. Help us to look to you above it all. As the Lord, as the one who keeps us and who loves us and saves us. Teach us now through Nehemiah 12, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Nehemiah chapter 12 is giving us a list of priests and Levites who came back with Zerubbabel and Yeshua. This is that first generation that we read about in the early chapters of Ezra. These are the priests and the Levites who came up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua Sariah, Jeremiah, Ezra, Amariah, Malak, Hattush. Shekaniah, Rehum, Meramath, Ido, Ginnothoy, Abijah, Mijemin, Ma'adiah, Bilgah, Shemea, Joairib, Jeddeah, Salu, Amak, Hilkiah, Jediah. These were the chiefs of the priests, and of their brothers in the days of Jeshua And the Levites, Jeshua, Benui, Cadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mataniah, who with his brothers was in charge of the songs of thanksgiving And Bakbukiah and Uni and their brothers stood opposite them in the service. And Joshua was the father of Joachim. Joiachim, the father of Eliashib, Eliashib the father of Joedah, Joedah the father of Jonathan, Jonathan the father of Jedduah. And in the days of Joachim were priests, heads of fathers' houses of Sira, of Morea. of Jeremiah, Hananiah, of Ezra, Meshulem, of Amariah, Jehoannan, of Meluchi, Jonathan, of Shemaniah, Joseph, of Harem, Adnah. Meradoth, Meraloth, that's why I should wear my glasses. Helkai of Ido, Zechariah of Ginnathon, Meshulum of Abijah, Zikrai, Miniaman, of Moda, Pittai, Piltai, Bilgah, Shemua, of Shemea, Jehonathan, of Joerib, Mataniah, of Judea, Uzi, of Sali, Kali, of Amok, Eber, of Hilkiah, of Hashabiah, of Judea, Nephanel. In the days of Eliashe, Jehoiada Johannan, and Jedua, the Levites, were recorded as heads of fathers' houses, so too were the priests in the reign of Darius the Persian. As for the sons of Levi, their heads of fathers' houses were written in the book of the Chronicles until the days of Jehunan. the son of Eliashib, and the chiefs of the Levites, Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua the son of Cadmiel, with their brothers who stood opposite them to praise and give thanks according to the commandment of David the man of God, watch by watch. Mataniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshulam, Talman, and Akub were gatekeepers standing guard at the storehouses of the gates. These were in the days of Joachim, the son of Yeshua, son of Josedak. and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the priest and scribe. And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites in all their places to bring them to Jerusalem to celebrate the dedication with gladness, with thanksgiving, and with singing, with cymbals, harps, and lyres. And the sons of the singers gathered together from the district surrounding Jerusalem, and from the villages of the Natopathites. Also from Beth-Gilgal and from the region of Gibah and Azmabeth, for the singers had built for themselves villages around Jerusalem And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and they purified the people, and the gates, and the wall. Then I brought the leaders of Judah. up onto the wall, and appointed two great choirs to give thanks. One went to the south, on the wall to the Dungate And after them went Hosheah and half the leaders of Judah, and Azariah, Ezra, Meshulem, Judah, Benjamin, Shemeah, and Jeremiah and certain of the priests' sons with trumpets, Zechariah the son of Jonathan, son of Shemeah, son of Mataniah, son of Mekaiah, son of Zachar, son of Asaph, and his relatives Shemea, Azarel, Milali, Gilali, Maai, Nathanael, Judah, and Hananai, with the musical instruments of David the man of God. And Ezra the scribe went before them. At the fountain gate they went up straight before them by the stairs of the city of David. at the ascent of the wall, above the house of David, to the water gate on the east. The other choir of those who gave thanks went to the north, and I followed them, with half of the people on the wall, above the tower of the ovens, to the broad wall and above the fish gate I'm sorry, above the gate of Ephraim and by the gate of Yashanah and by the fishgate and the tower of Hananel. and the tower of the hundred to the sheep gate, and they came to a halt at the gate of the guard. So both choirs of those who gave thanks stood in the house of God, and I and half the officials with me. And the priests, Eliakim, Maessiah, Miniamon, Micah, Elioni, Zechariah, and Hannaiah with trumpets. And Maesiah, Shemiah, Eliezer, Uzi, Jehonanan, Malkaijah, Elam, and Ezir And the singers sang, with Jezrehiah as their singer, as their leader. And they offered great sacrifices that day, and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy. The women and children also rejoiced. and the joy of Jerusalem was heard far away. On that day men were appointed over tile storerooms, the contributions, sorry, over the storerooms, tile storerooms. It's called a dirty computer screen and tired eyes. Okay. On that day we're appointed over the storerooms, the contributions, the first fruits, and the tides. to gather into them the portions required by the law for the priests and for the Levites, according to the fields of the towns, for Judah recorded, rejoiced over the priests and the Levites who ministered. And they performed the service of their God and the service of purification, as did the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the command of David and his son Solomon. For long ago, in the days of David and Asaph, there were directors of the singers, and there were songs of praise and thanksgiving to God. And all Israel, in the days of Zerubbabel and in the days of Nehemiah, gave the daily portions for the singers and the gatekeepers. And they set apart that which was for the Levites, and the Levites set apart that which was for the sons of Aaron. See how the tithe and then the tithe of the sons of the side the tithe reference there at the end of Nehemiah twelve. Well, we have a chapter that's giving us a lot more names, right? And it sort of is the bridge from the priests and the Levites who come up with the first that first return, which was now several decades in the past. with the rubbable and Joshua. And then you have in the days of Jehoiakim, in the days of Eliasib, right, and then um They were uh and then the ones who were there in the days of Nehemiah the governor and Ezra the priest and scribe, which brings us up to that present day. So these priests and Levites, they are involved in leading God's people in worship. And the the real emphasis that I think we should focus on here today, because there's a lot in this chapter and We've been covering a lot through Ezra and Nehemiah, but here I think what is being emphasized for us in this chapter of God's Word is the importance of thanksgiving. and particularly of dedicated, excellent Thanksgiving in song. We have been blessed by God. God has built for us a great city of salvation. We've learned about that a couple weeks ago in our Sunday morning sermon in Isaiah 26. God has made for us a great city of salvation in Jesus Christ, Zion, city of our God The holy Zion that is Jesus Christ. He is the temple. He is the walls of salvation. He's the gate that's open to those who have faith in him. He's the rock of our salvation who shields us. He is the way into the city for those who follow him and trust in him. And so he is everything to us. And God has given us everything in Christ. We have everything we need in Christ. forgiveness of all of our sins, adoption as children of God, justification before the Judge of the Universe, an inheritance that is kept in heaven for us that can never spoil or fade. eternal life which has begun now in Jesus and continues on into eternity when Jesus returns and brings us into the new heavens and the new earth. We have all the promises of God fulfilled in the new covenant in Jesus. We have all of this And we ought to be giving thanks. If they had reason at the reconstruction of the wall of Jerusalem, if they had reason To celebrate with gladness, with thanksgiving, with singing. We have all the more reason to celebrate with gladness, with thanksgiving, and with singing. And our singing should be organized, it should be excellent, it should be be thankful. When we come together for worship on the Lord's Day in the morning, we should come prepared to sing, singing with joy, singing together with the rest of God's people, singing in harmony. with joyful and beautiful voices to the Lord. And at special times of the year when we remember The special things that God has done, there aren't necessarily holy days or holy seasons under the New Covenant, but there are still times of the year when we remember Certain things that God has done when Jesus came and was born for us, when Jesus died and rose again for us. These seminal Moments of redemptive history when we take time to remember them, our praise and our thanksgiving and our joy should be all the much higher and greater and stronger. Thanksgiving is a holiday that's coming up in next month and our cultures become uncomfortable with it. We sort of rush from Halloween to East to Christmas. You see in stores Halloween decorations and Christmas decorations side by side. Maybe you can find a little bit of fall decor But there's not much in our culture that is saying, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. And this ought to be the Christians. really wonderful time of Thanksgiving before we enter into the season where we celebrate and remember the birth of our Lord, which is he's the greatest gift of all, but we should be giving thanks. We should be not just celebrating Turkey Day and eating ourselves silly and watching a lot of football, although all those things are very good. We shouldn't just be doing those things. We should be very intentionally, very joyfully very uh unitedly as God's one people giving thanks to the Lord. So let's be thankful people with gladness and singing in our hearts. Yes, life has sorrow. Yes, life has trouble. Yes, life has wars and and deaths and and heartache and heartbreak. It has all of those things. God's people had been through all of those things in the years before this chapter, but God has been good, and the goodness of God is stronger than the sorrow and the shadow of the world. So give thanks. Let's pray. Father, thank you. Thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you that we have everything we need in Him. Thank you that He has overcome sin and death for us forever. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Tomorrow we're going to be wrapping up the book of Nehemiah with Nehemiah chapter 13. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.