Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter for a day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It's day 643 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We're back in the book of Nehemiah, picking up where we left off with the finishing of the wall in Nehemiah chapter 7. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. It is perfect in every way. It is sufficient for what we need. We pray that you would grow us in our understanding of your word and our application of your word to our lives. Help us to be obedient and responsive. and receptive and believing. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Nehemiah chapter seven. Now when the wall had been built, and I had set up the doors, and the gatekeepers, the singers, and the Levites had been appointed, I gave my brother Hanani and Hananiah, the governor of the castle, charge over Jerusalem For he was a more faithful and God-fearing man than many. And I said to them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot. And while they are still standing guard, let them shut and bar the doors. Appoint guards from among the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Some at their guardposts and some in front of their own houses. The city was wide and large, but the people within it were few, and no houses had been rebuilt. Then my God put it into my heart to assemble the nobles and the officials and the people to be enrolled by genealogy. And I found the book of the genealogy of those who had come up at the first, and I found written in it, these were the people of the province who came up out of the captivity. of those exiles whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried into exile. They returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his town They came with Serubabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Ramiah, Nehemiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mizrapheth Bigvi, Nehum, and Baina. The number of the men of the people of Israel, the sons of Perosh, 2172, the sons of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy-two The sons of Erah, 652, the sons of Pehatoth Moab, namely the sons of Jeshua and Joab, 2818. The sons of Elam, 1254. The sons of Zatu, 845. The sons of Zachai, 760. The sons of Binuai. 648, the sons of Bibi, 628, the sons of Asgad, 232, the sons of Adonicem, 667, the sons of Bigvi, 2067. The sons of Aden, 655. The sons of Atur, namely of Hezekiah, 98. The sons of Hashem, 328. The sons of Bezai, 324, the sons of Heroth, 112, the sons of Gibeon, 95, the men of Bethlehem and Natopha, 188 The men of Anathoth, 128, the men of Beth-Azmavath, 42, the men of Kirioth Jirim. uh Kephira and Biroth seven hundred forty three, the men of Reha Rama And Giba, 621, the men of Mi'kmas, 122, the men of Bethel and Ai 123, The men of the other Nebo, 52, the sons of the other Elam, 1254, the sons of Haram, 320, the sons of Jericho, 345. the sons of Lod, Haided, and Ono, 721, the sons of Senah, 3930, the priests of the sons of Jediah Namely, the house of Jeshua, 973, the sons of Imr, 1052, the sons of Pasher, 1247, the sons of Harem, 1017 The Levites, the sons of Jeshua, namely Cadmiel of the sons of Hodeba, 74, the singers, the sons of Asaph, 148, The gatekeepers, the sons of Shalom, the sons of Atter, the sons of Talmud, the sons of Achob, the sons of Hatitah, the sons of Shobi, 138 The temple servants, the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hashufa, the sons of Tabooth, the sons of Kiras The sons of Sia, the sons of Padon, the sons of Labanna, the sons of Hagaba, the sons of Shalmai, the sons of Hanan, the sons of Gide Gide Gidel, the sons of Gehar, the sons of Rhea, the sons of Rezen, the sons of Nikoah, the sons of Gazm, the sons of Uzzah, the sons of Pasea The sons of Bisai, the sons of Menuam, the sons of Nefushism, the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakufah, the sons of Harhur, the sons of Bezlith, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha, the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, Sisera The sons of Timah, the sons of Niziah, the sons of Hatipha, the sons of Solomon's servants, the sons of Soti, the sons of Sopheref, the sons of Peridah, the sons of Jaelah, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Gidel, the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hatil, the sons of Poketh Hazabame The sons of Amon, all the temple servants and the sons of Solomon's servants were 392 The following were those who came up from Telmela, Telharshah, Kerib, Aden, and Imr. But they could not prove their fathers' houses nor their descent, whether they belonged to Israel The sons of Deliah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nakota, 642, the sons of Also of the priests, the sons of Hobeah, the sons of Hakaz, the sons of Barzilli, who had taken a wife of the daughters of Barzilli the Gileadite, and was called by their name These sought their registration among those enrolled in the genealogies, but it was not found there. So they were excluded from the priesthood as unclean. The governor had told them that they were not to partake of the most holy food until a priest with Urim and Thummim should arise. The whole assembly together was 42,360 besides their male and female servants, of whom there were 7,337, and they had 245 singers, male and female, their horses were seven hundred and thirty-six, their mules two hundred and forty-five, their camels four hundred and thirty-five. And their donkeys 6,720. Now, some of the heads of fathers' houses gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury one thousand dericks of gold, fifty basins, thirty priests' garments, and five hundred minas of silver. And some of the heads of father's houses gave into the treasury of the work. twenty thousand derrics of gold and twenty-two hundred minas of silver, and what the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand derrickes of gold, two thousand minas of silver, and sixty-seven priests' garments. So the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, some of the people, the temple servants, and all Israel lived in their towns. And when the seventh month had come, the people of Israel were in their towns. So a lot of this material in Nehemiah 7 is a rehashing of what was there in Ezra chapter 2 when we had the genealogy, because this is that first generation. this genealogy of the returned exiles. That's the first generation who came out with Zerubbabel, who was the governor at that time, and Jeshua, who was the high priest at that time. And there is a man named Nehemiah, but it's a different Nehemiah. Um and so this was the the first generation listed of that group of forty-two thousand or so. Remember them from the beginning of Ezra. But let's go back to the beginning of Nehemiah 7. And what we have here at the beginning of Nehemiah 7 is They they had the doors and the gatekeepers and they needed to have everything running properly and so Delegation and organization are two things that show up here in these first four verses in the Nehemiah. There's delegation to Nehemiah's brother, Hanani, and to Hananiah, who's the governor of the castle, like sort of a sub-governor position. gave these two guys charge over Jerusalem. And he said they they're more more God fearing and faithful than many. Not saying they're perfect. You know, not perfect people around. But here are people who are more faithful and God-fearing than many. And so the order is given, and that is, don't open the gates of Jerusalem before it's hot. You don't want to open up in the early morning when people are still going to be sleepy and people are still going to be sort of getting up and getting around with their day. Because once you open the gates, you're vulnerable. to a potential attack. And you want to make sure everybody's up, everybody's with it, everybody's going, everybody's alert and ready to do business with whoever comes. And then you have guards. There are guards from among the inhabitants of Jerusalem. The people who live there are the people who stand guard to protect it. There are some who are at their guardposts and some who are in front of their own homes. Now at this point, the homes themselves had not been rebuilt. They built the temple first under that earlier generation. Now they built the walls. Now that there are walls, people can build the temple. You see there has to be a structure, there has to be planning, there has to be an infrastructure, there has to be protection, security before people feel safe to be able to build and take that initiative And so only once the the city is secured can people safely live there and rebuild, because otherwise they're sort of a sitting duck, they're a target. Right? Here's the city with a temple and all these people living in it. There's probably a lot of money there. Let's go up and get 'em. So they needed a wall, and that wall was important. The list of returned exiles, reading all those names reminds me of this book that we're doing with the young adults. Who come over to our house on Monday nights, and it's called Dream Small, the secret power of the ordinary Christian life And the premise of this short book, which is really well written and highly enjoyable read. If you like to read, and it's a short book, I recommend it, was recommended by Aleister Begg's Ministry Truth for Life. Ordinary people who are never known as celebrities, who are never known as powerful, who never make a huge impact. Like we're hearing a lot about Nehemiah and Ezra And we're hearing a lot about some of these leaders and rulers. But here are all these people whose names I half of them I butchered, and I apologize for that. But all these people, they're doing their part. They're there. They're showing up. And notice that when it comes time to provide for the temple of God. The governor, yes, gives generously because he's the wealthiest person around. He has the most resources, and so he gives. But the heads of fathers' houses give twenty times as much as the governor, and the rest of the people give as much as the heads of fathers' houses. So it's the people, the ordinary people, the people whose names we read through that most of history is forgotten and you'd have no idea who they are if you named If you named ten names randomly and five of them were from this list and five of them you made up off the top of your head and you said, Which five were in the Bible and which five did I just make up, probably no Christian would pass that test. Said, well, I don't know, right? Because these are not known people. But that doesn't mean they're not important. Because God made them important God wrote their names down in his word, which has been copied and distributed and translated into more languages across more people than any other book in the world. They are remembered It reminds me that there's a book of remembrance that Malachi speaks of, the Lamb's book of life, Revelation calls it, where the names of all of God's people are written down. And you can be an ordinary Christian. Living a small, normal life, not a celebrity, not a social media influencer, not a leader in the in the world's eyes, and yet faithfulness To doing what God has given you to do, playing your part in his story, makes your life of tremendous and even eternal significance. Amen? Let's pray Father, thank you for calling us to be your children and your ambassadors. You've made us salt and light by your grace. And you use us in profoundly powerful ways. Even if they're simple, even if the world takes no notice, you are good. Help us to follow you. Help us to be faithful. Because being faithful is more important than being successful as the world defines it. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's Nehemiah 7. Tomorrow we will move on to Nehemiah 8. Hope you can join me for that. As always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.