Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and it is day number 635 of our three-year journey. Through the Word of God, and we are here in Nehemiah chapter 2. We heard Nehemiah's wonderful prayer. What a great prayer, powerful prayer before God yesterday, and now we're going to see how he acts. and how God answers that prayer. And it's going to take some time. It's going to take some matter of months before things come about. So lesson number one before we even get into the reading is that we have to be patient and wait a Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for the way that you have ordered things in your word for our instruction. Teach us through Nehemiah 2 today. That we might be more faithful to you and more fruitful as your people. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Nehemiah chapter 2 says in the month of Nisan, in the twentieth year of the King Artaxerxes, when wine was before him, I took up the wine and gave it to the king. Now I had not been sad in his presence And the king said to me, Why is your face sad, seeing you are not sick? This is nothing but sadness of the heart Then I was very much afraid. by fire. Then the king said to me, What are you requesting? So I prayed to the God of heaven And I said to the king, If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, that you send me to Judah, to the city of my father's graves, that I May rebuild it. And the king said to me, the queen sitting beside him, How long will you be gone, and when will you return? So it pleased the king to send me when I had given him eight time. And I said to the king, if it pleases the king, let letters be given me to the governors of the province beyond the river, that they may let me pass through till I come to you Judah. And the king granted me what I asked, for the good hand of my God was upon me. Then I came to the governors of the province beyond On the river, and gave them the king's letters. Now the king had sent me with officers of the army and horsemen, but when Sanbalat the Hornite And Tobiah the Ammonite servant heard this, it displeased them greatly that someone had come to seek the welfare of the people. So I went to Jerusalem and was there three days. Then I arose in the night, I and a few men with me, and I told no one what my God had put into my heart to do I went by night, I went out by night by the valley gate to the Dragon Spring, and to the Dungate, and I inspected the walls of Jerusalem that were broken down and its gates that had been destroyed by fire. Then I went on to the fountain gate and to the king's pool, but there was no room for the animal that was under me to pass. Then I went up in the night by the valley and inspected the wall, and I turned back and entered by the valley gate, and so reached And the officials did not know where I had gone or what I was doing, and I had not yet told the Jews, the priests, the nobles, the officials, and the rest who were to do the work. Then I said to them, You see the trouble we are in, how Jerusalem lies in ruins with its gates burned Come, let us build the wall of Jerusalem, that we may no longer suffer derision. And I told them of the hand of my God that had been upon me for good and also of the words that the king had spoken to me. And they said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for the good work. But when Sanbalat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite servant and Geshem the Arab heard of it, they jeered at us and despised us, and said, What is this thing that you are doing? Are you rebelling against the The king? Then I replied to them, The God of heaven will make us prosper, and we his servants will arise and build, but you have no portion or right or claim in Jerusalem. That's Nehemiah chapter 2. It's some time between the prayer of Nehemiah 1 and the action of Nehemiah II. And this is known, this is figured out by knowing the calendar system. So if we look back at chapter 1, really quickly when we opened. It was in the month of Kislev, in the 20th year of King Artaxerxes' reign, and he was in Susa, the citadel. Now the month of Kislev is one of the last months in the Jewish calendar. It's in the fall. Whereas the month of Nisan is the first month of the Jewish calendar, and it's uh in in the spring, you know, one of the last months and then the first month. month. So there's a couple of months in between. But it's still the twentieth year because the year he's talking about is the year of King Artaxerxes' reign. And the the Artaxerxes would not have dated the years of his reign. according to a Jewish calendar, but rather that would have started on the day that he took uh the throne as king of Persia. That was the first year and then the second year. So the twentieth year, you know stopped and started on different dates, but it's several months. The point is that we read this prayer in chapter one in this time of intense fasting and prayer, and his prayer at the end of it is Give success to your servant today, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man. We read that in chapter 1, verse 11. That's the petition. That's the supplication of his prayer. Give success to your servant today and grant him mercy in the sight of this man. And yet it's a couple of months later before he actually has an opportunity to see that. You we might expect in our way of thinking, our human way of thinking, well he's He's fasted, he's been earnest, he's sought the Lord, he's prayed. Now God's immediately going to give him favor. No, it takes a few months. Sometimes it takes longer, sometimes it takes years, but in this case it took a few months And he was patient. And he didn't directly speak to the king about this, but he did begin to show the burden that was bear that he was carrying. Carrying. Because if you're really burdened by something, it's going to show in your countenance, in your aspect, in your way you carry yourself. And the king knows him very well. to know his cupbearer very well because the cupbearer is the one who tastes the food or drink before he gives it to the king to make sure it's not poison. He's the last line of defense to the king against against being poisoned. So that's someone you want to know well and you read their body language well because if one day the cupbearer was being paid off or something you'd want to know if there was something going on with the guy. It's very practical. At least keeping a close eye on his cupbearer. But he also likes his cupbearer. It's a trusted position. And so um he has A sad face, but he's not sick, and the king knows he's got a heavy heart. And so Nehemiah opens up and tells the king the truth. Why should not my father Case be sad, when the city, the place of my father's graves, lies in ruins, and its gates have been destroyed by fire. When we are given opportunity to speak the truth, Truth to a world that doesn't know the truth, we should not be ashamed to speak the truth about who we are, about who our people are, about what our concerns are. are because that's testifying, right? So this is a a kind of testimony that Nehemiah is bearing. He's identifying himself with his city, with his people, and with their strong And there's this covenantal solidarity that we saw in his prayer, and now we're seeing in his action before the king. And then I love this Verse 4 and 5. The king said to me, What are you requesting? So I prayed to the God of heaven, and I said to the king, if it pleases the king. Nehemiah had spent dedicated time in prayer, but that wasn't enough. He was also living a life of prayer. He was praying throughout the experiences of his life. This would have been a short, quick, quiet, silent prayer. No, not all prayer has to be like that. We do have to have times of prayer like that, but not all prayer has to be like that. We can come to God and we can say very quickly, Lord give me favor, Lord give me clarity, Lord give me a Give me wisdom, Lord, answer the prayer that I prayed to you. And we don't know what he prayed, but he prayed to the God of heaven. And then he spoke to the king. And the king Here at the end of verse 8. The king granted me what I asked, for the good hand of my God was upon me. God granted what I asked But that was only because the good hand of my God was upon me. So ultimately his gratitude is to God and not to Artaxerxes. Artaxerxes is the instrument, is the means by which God provides. So Akim comes to the governors, he gives them the letters, and then he goes to Jerusalem, and he stays there for a few days of just being there and of instructions. things work around here. So he takes time. Now not a long period of time because there's work that needs to be done. But he takes three days and then and then he gets up and spends all night sort of walking around On his donkey and sometimes on foot, inspecting. He wants to know, if you if you as we read on, you'll see this, he wants to know who lives where, who's going to be in charge of what. He's organizing, he's planning. And I also think, given everything we know about him, he must be praying. We're not told that specifically, but later we'll see. Nehemiah is a man who always combines wise and deliberate action with dedicated prayer to God. So he takes his time and he makes sure he knows what he's talking about before he speaks to the people. And then the people agree with him, but then there's opposition. These guys, Sanbalat the Horonite and Debiah the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arab, they're the opposition. There's always opposition. God's work never goes forward on a Satan knows how dangerous God's work is in the world to his kingdom, and so he always opposes it. And so they come and they oppose. What is this thing you're doing? You rebelling against the king? And notice how he replies, the God of heaven will make us prosper. That's a clear testimony. The God of heaven will make us prosper, and we his servants will arise and build, but you have no portion or right claim in Jerusalem. These guys are politicians and they're extorters and they basically are looking to either stop this from happening or to figure out how they can profit from it. And we're not this is not the last we're going to hear of these guys in the book of Nehemiah. But God's word never goes on unopposed. So what have we learned today? Well, what we learned is that we can pray earnestly, fervently, dedicatedly and have to wait for an answer. When the answer comes, that doesn't mean we we stop praying. We keep praying even as we go into action. We need to take time to plan. And to understand situations before we just rush in. And then we should always expect the work of God to be opposed. And we need to stand under the blessing of God with confidence in God. when the opposition comes. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for calling us to be your children. For calling us to be your servants, for giving us good work to do in your kingdom. But your kingdom is opposed. It is opposed by schisms within, false teachers, and man-made agendas, and then by opposition from the world without Lead us. Provide for us. Give us wisdom, humility, dependence, diligence, faithfulness. And bless the work of our hands to your glory, Father, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Nehemiah chapter 2 We're just getting started with Nehemiah, but we're back to Luke tomorrow for Luke chapter 4. Have a blessed day in the Lord.