Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Old Presbyterian Church. We're back in the book of Nehemiah. Nehemiah chapter 11 is what we have on tap for us this morning. And we're going to deal with the leadership in Jerusalem and where everybody belongs. And by God's grace, I'll get through some more challenging names. bending over because by God's grace and probably the use of my reading glasses, I'll get through some of these tough names. Let's pray today. Oh, Father, you are so good. You're so good to us, faithful in all of your ways. We thank you that you are with us day by day, year by year. You're growing us, you're leading us. You're challenging us, you're comforting us, and we need you. We look to you as the one who is all sufficient, we look to you as the one we need and we need We ask that you would bless us with your favor and be our teacher and our guide and our God and our Lord today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Nehemiah chapter 11. Now the leaders of the people lived in Jerusalem, and the rest of the people cast lots to bring one out of ten to live in Jerusalem the holy city, while nine out of ten remained in the other towns. And the people blessed all the men who willingly offered to live in Jerusalem These are the chiefs of the provinces who lived in Jerusalem. But in the towns of Judah everyone lived on his own property in their towns. Israel, the priests, the Levites, the temple servants, and the descendants of Solomon's servants And in Jerusalem lived certain of the sons of Judah and of the sons of Benjamin. Of the sons of Judah Athiah, the son of Uzziah, son of Zechariah, son of Amariah, son of Shephetiah, son of Mahalalel, of the sons of Perez, and Mahcea The son of Barak, son of Kolhoza, son of Hazaiah, son of Adaiah, son of Joirab, son of Zechariah, son of the Shalonite, All the sons of Perez who lived in Jerusalem were 468 valiant men. And these are the sons of Benjamin. Salu, the son of Meshelem, son of Joed, son of Pediah, son of Koliah, son of Maessia, son of Ithao. son of Jeshiah, and his brothers, men of valor, 928. Joel, the son of Zikri, was their overseer, and Judah the son of Hasanua was second over the city. Of the priests, Judea, the son of Joerib, Jacan, Sarah, the son of Hilkiah. son of Meshulam, son of Zadok, son of Meriath, son of Ahitub, ruler of the house of God, and their brothers who did the work of the house, 822 And Adaiah, the son of Jerobam, son of Peliah, son of Amzi, son of Zechariah. son of Pasher, son of Melkaijah, and his brothers, heads of fathers' houses, two hundred and forty-two. And Amashai, the son of Azarel, son of Ozai, son of Mishilamoth, son of Immer, and their brothers, mighty men of valor one hundred and twenty-eight. Their overseer was Zabdiel, the son of Hagadolan And of the Levites, Shemiah the son of Hashab, son of Azracham, son of Hashabiah, son of Buni. And Shabbatai and Josebad of the chiefs of the Levites who were over the outside work of the house of God. And Mataniah the son of Mekah, son of Zabdi, son of Asaph, who was the leader of the praise, who give thank who gave thanks. And uh Bakbukayah, the second among his brothers. And Abdah, the son of Shemua, son of Galal, son of Judothan, all the Levites in the holy city were 284. The gatekeepers, Akub, Talmud, and their brothers who kept watch of the gates were 172 And the rest of Israel, and of the priests and the Levites, who were all in the towns of Judah, every one in his inheritance. But the temple servants lived on Ofel, and Ziha and Gishpa were over the temple servants. The overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzi the son of Banai, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mataniah, the son of Meka, of the sons of Asaph, the singers, over the work of the house of God. for there was a command from the king concerning them, and a fixed provision for the singers, as every day required. And Pathahiah, the son of Meshebel, Meshebel, of the sons of Zirah The son of Judah was at the king's side in all matters concerning the people. And as for the villages with their fields, Some of the people of Judah lived in Kiraba and its villages, and in Dibon and its villages, and in uh Jekabzil and its villages, and in Jeshua and in Moladah. And in Beth Pellet, and in Hazar Shual, in Beersheba and its villages, in Ziklag, in Mekona, and its villages, in Enrimin, in Zora, in Jarmuth. Zanoah, Adulam, and their villages, Lakish and its fields, and Azekah and its villages. So they encamped from Beersheba to the valley of Hinnem The people of Benjamin also live from Giba onward at Micmash, Ijah, Bethel and its villages, Anathoth, Nob, and Inah. Ananiya, rather, Hazor, Rama, Gitame, Hadid, Zeboyam, Nabalat, Lod, and Ono, the Valley of Craftsmen. And certain divisions of the Levites in Judah were assigned to Benjamin. All right, so what is going on here in Nehemiah chapter 11? Well, simply put. They need people to live in Jerusalem if it's going to be the functioning capital city, the center of worship, and the center of the life of the people of Israel. They need people who are willing to live there. They've rebuilt the walls, they've rebuilt the temple, and now they need people to live there. Why wouldn't anyone want to live in Jerusalem? Because it makes you a target, right? Yes, you have walls around, but there's a reason why you need those walls, right? It's always the main city in the middle that is the target to be laid siege to, and if you're living a quiet, peaceful life in an outlying village, you know you a lot of times armies will just pass you by because they're on their way to the big prize, the big city. And so the people who volunteered to be willing to live in Jerusalem We're were blessed by the people. They said, bless you. May the Lord bless you and keep you as you sit here because they're needed. So a A substantial portion of them are priests and Levites who need to be there to make the temple function, but there were others who were there who were leaders among the people. And Um there's one basically one-tenth of the returned population that's going to be living in Jerusalem. It's going to be a f you know a few thousand people. But for the most part, people are going to be living outside. So you've got in the first group, you've got 468 valiant men. In the second group, you've got 928 valiant men. In the third group, you've got another 822 plus 242 plus 128. And then you've got of the Levites 284, and then of gatekeepers 172. I didn't do all the math to add all that up, but it's a couple thousand people. Right? And so that's who's going to be living in in Jerusalem. About one-tenth of the overall would be somewhere around 4,000 people total if they're if you're counting like that initial group of 42,000 and Some of them would have died off and some more people would have come, but uh it's a few thousand people who are gonna be living in Jerusalem. Um and these people are significant. What can we learn from it? Well There is work that needs to be done in the kingdom that is not always easy that sometimes makes you a target, especially if you have a role of leadership or a l role of being up front or a role of you know, coordinating the ministry, sometimes you can be a target for people's criticisms and backbiting, but you're also in a more even real substantial sense a target for Satan's attacks. We have a group of men at Forest Hill right now who are going through officer training, and some of them are starting to report how they feel like they're coming under attack ever since they started officer training. And that's That's true. That's that's realistic because if you're going to be a leader within the kingdom of God, if you're going to step up and uh undergo the training to be qualified to serve in office, Satan is going to target you just as the enemies of God's people would have targeted Jerusalem. So what needs to happen? Well the rest of the people blessed the men who were going to live in Jerusalem. And the church needs to be making sure that we pray for those who are in leadership. I think it's very important that those who have stepped up to lead Whether they have a formal role as being an officer of the church or a more informal role as maybe leading a Bible study, teaching a Sunday school class, coordinating a ministry. serving as a missionary, sort of in between, where we may not be an elder or deacon within the church, but they're out on the front lines sharing the gospel. We need to be faithful and diligent to pray for these people. We need to say, may the Lord bless you and keep you, and may he cause his face to shine upon you. May the Lord be your rear guard and may he make your work. faithful to him and fruitful for his glory, and may you be protected from the attacks of the enemy. We need to pray to the Lord and say, Lord, keep these men and women who are serving you. Guard them and bless them, protect them, strengthen them, make them faithful and make them fruitful. So I hope that if I hope that you are a member of a Bible-believing gospel preaching church. Many of you go to Forest Hill, but I know not all of you do. And so I hope that you're part of a good, solid church. And if you are, I hope that you will pray daily for your pastor, for your elders, for your deacons, for your missionaries, for your ministry leaders. because these are people who are in the crossroads because they're serving in the temple, they're serving in the church in a way that makes them a target for the enemy. Father, thank you for those who are willing to serve. Thank you for those who step up to teach Sunday school, to lead music, uh, to uh serve in office as elder or deacon to coordinate ministries, to host Bible studies, to to lead groups, ministry groups, to serve you in in missionary capacity in the field. Father, we pray that you would bless and protect and strengthen and make the work of your servants. faithful to you and fruitful for you and protected from the infiltration of the enemy. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Well, that's Nehemiah chapter 11. Tomorrow we're going to go right under chapter 12 and then right on to chapter 13. We're finishing up the book of Nehemiah next couple of days. Hope you can join me. Have a blessed day in the Lord.