Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Here on day 646, we are back in the book of Nehemiah, Nehemiah chapter 9. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, full of truth, goodness, and beauty. powerfully addressed to us so that we might learn and grow by it. Father, teach us. Make us teachable. Humble us before your word. And write it on our hearts by your Holy Spirit. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Nehemiah chapter 9. Now on the twenty-fourth day of this month, the people of Israel were assembled with fasting and in sackcloth and with earth on their heads. And the Israelites separated themselves from all foreigners and stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers. And they stood up in their place and read from the book of the law of the Lord their God for a quarter of the day. For another quarter of it they made confession and worshipped the Lord their God. On the stairs of the Levites stood Jeshua. Bani, Cadmiel, Sheboniah, Buni, Sherubiah, Boni, and Kanani. And they cried with a loud voice to the Lord their God Then the Levites, Jeshua, Cadmiel, Banai, Hashebneah, Sherubiah, Hodiah, Sheboniah, and Tathahiah said, Stand up and bless the Lord your God from everlasting to everlasting. Blessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise. You are the Lord, you alone, you have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host, the earth and all that is on it, the seas and all that is in them. And you preserve all of them, and the host of heaven worships you. You are the Lord, the God who chose Abram, and brought him out of Ur of the Chaldeans, and gave him the name Abraham. You found his heart faithful before you, and made with him the covenant to give to his offspring the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizite, the Jebizite. and the Gergeshite, and you have kept your promise, for you are righteous. And you saw the affliction of our fathers in Egypt and heard their cry at the Red Sea. and performed signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants and all the people of the land, for you knew That they acted arrogantly against our fathers, and you made a name for yourself, as it is to this day And you divided the sea before them, so that they went through the midst of the sea on dry land, and you cast their pursuers into the depths as a stone into mighty waters. By a pillar of cloud you led them in the day, and by a pillar of fire in the night, to light for them the way in which they should go. You came down on Mount Sinai and spoke with them from heaven and gave them right rules and true laws, good statutes and commandments. And you made known to them your holy Sabbath, and commanded them commandments and statutes and a law by Moses your servant. You gave them bread from heaven for their hunger and brought water for them out of the rock for their thirst, and you told them to go in to possess the land that you had sworn to give them. But they and our fathers acted presumptuously and stiffened their neck and did not obey your commandments They refused to obey, and were not mindful of the wonders that you performed among them. But they stiffened their neck and appointed a leader to return to their slavery in Egypt But you are a God ready to forgive, gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, and did not forsake them, even when they had made for themselves a golden calf and said, This is your God who brought you up out of Egypt, and had committed great blasphemies. You, in your great mercies, did not forsake them in the wilderness. The pillar of cloud to lead them in the way, did not depart from them by day, nor the pillar of fire by night to light for them the way in which by which they should go. You gave your good spirit to instruct them, and did not withhold your manna from their mouth, and gave them water for their thirst. Forty years you sustained them in the wilderness, and they lacked Nothing. Their clothes did not wear out, and their feet did not swell, and you gave them kingdoms and peoples and allotted to them every corner. So they took possession of the land of Sihon, king of Heshbon, and the land of Og, king of Bashin. You multiplied their children as the stars of heaven. and you brought them into the land that you had told their fathers to enter and possess. So the descendants went in and possessed the land And you subdued before them the inhabitants of the land of Canaan, and gave them into their hand with their kings and the peoples of the land. that they might do with them as they would. And they captured fortified cities with a rich land, and took possession of houses full of all good things. cisterns already hewn, vineyards, olive orchards, and fruit trees in abundance, so they ate and were filled and became fat and delighted themselves in your great goodness. Nevertheless they were disobedient, and rebelled against you, and cast your law behind their back, and killed your prophets who had warned them, in order to turn them back to you, and they committed great blasphemy. Therefore you gave them into the hand of their enemies, who made them suffer, and in time of their suffering they cried out to you, and you heard them from heaven, and according to your great mercies you gave them saviors. who saved them from the hand of their enemies. But after they had rest, they did evil again before you, and you abandoned them to the hand of their enemies, so that they had dominion over them. Yet when they turned and cried to you, you heard from heaven, and many times you delivered them according to your mercies. and you warned them in order to turn back, turn them back to your law. Yet they acted presumptuously, and did not obey your commandments, but sinned against your rules, which, if a person does them Many years you bore with them and warned them by your spirit through your prophets. yet they would not give ear. Therefore you gave them into the hand of the peoples of the lands. Nevertheless, in your great mercies you did not make an end of them or forsake them, for you are a gracious and merciful God. Now therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love, let not all the hardship seem little to you that has come upon us, upon our kings, our princes, our priests, our prophets, our fathers, and all your people since the time of the kings of Assyria until this day Yet you have been righteous in all that has come upon us, for we have dealt, for you have dealt faithfully, and we have acted wickedly Our kings, our princes, our priests, and our fathers have not kept your law or paid attention to your commandments and your warnings that you gave them. even in their own kingdom, and amid your own and amid your great goodness that you gave them, and in the large and rich land that you set before them, They did not serve you or turn from their wicked works. Behold, we are slaves this day in the land that you gave to our fathers to enjoy its fruit and its good gifts. Behold, we are slaves, and its rich yield goes to the kings whom you have set over us because of our sins. They rule over our bodies and over our livestock as they please, and we are in great distress. Because of all this, we have made a firm covenant in writing. On the sealed document are the names of our princes, our Levites, and our This, following Nehemiah 8, which we looked at a couple of days ago, really sets out a wonderful model. for how God's people should cry out to God, seek the Lord, seek to honor Him, and do biblical reformation. in the life of the church. And so we at Forest Hill have begun a season where we are intentionally praying for revival. renewal, reformation, uh, reawakening, restoration in our own hearts, in our homes, in our families, in our community, in our nation, but it starts here, right? And so Uh chapters eight and nine of Nehemiah give us wonderful patterns to look to. Here we see the people really hearing from God's Word and responding to God's Word. And that is the heart of it. Like sometimes we think, well maybe there's some great marketing strategy or some great you know strategic plan or some great you know visionary leadership vision casting blah blah blah right no I the True biblical reformation and revival and renewal is very simple, but it's very powerful because it's empowered by the Holy Spirit, and that is we we read the Bible We listen to the Bible. We respond to the Bible in confessing our sin. In pleading for mercy and in asking for God to renew us, restore us, revive us. And that's what we see here The people are assembled. Now, earlier they had already read from the book of the law and taught the book of the law, but because it was tabernacles, it was a feast of celebration, of ingathering. They they were told, do not mourn and do not weep, celebrate, feast. But now it's the twenty-fourth day of the month. It's past this festival time. And the people are being called to fast. They assemble with fasting. They weren't eating. They were in sackcloth. They had dirt on their heads. This was an outer sign, but it wasn't a near outer sign. It was an outer sign that matched an inward reality because they were repenting. They stood up in their place. And they read from the book of the law for a quarter of the day. And for another quarter of the day, they made confession and worshiped the Lord their God. They spent hours. Listening to God's word, confessing their sin, worshiping God. Listening to God's word, confessing their sin, worshiping God. This shows that they are very earnest in seeking the Lord. And then they pray, and we have this prayer here. It's a prayer that begins with adoration. You are the Lord, you alone, you have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their hosts, the earth and all that is on it, the seas and all that is in them. and you preserve all of them. And the host of heaven worships you. You are the Lord, the God who chose Abram, and brought him out of Ur of the Chaldeans, and gave him the name Abraham. So they are praising God. They are recounting their history. And they are confessing that God has been the great deliverer, the savior, the redeemer of his people. But that his people have responded to God while God kept his promise and was righteous and delivered his people, the people responded to God with sin. God brought them out of Egypt, fed them in the wilderness, brought them into the promised land, gave them everything they needed, and yet they sinned. They stiffened their neck. They did not obey. They're confessing their distant ancestors' sins. Because they are the descendants of these people, and they have received this heritage of wickedness that has been passed down to them from generation to generation. A heritage that presumes upon the grace of God, takes God's blessings for granted, is not thankful, is not obedient. And repentant. And they say, we do see this in ourselves, yes, but this has been a long line of history coming down to us. And this is how the church should be praying. We should be praying, Father, we are worldly. We are more in love with the world and the things it promises us than what you promise us in your word. We are sinful in this way, and this has been the pattern of your church for generation upon generation to be more in love with the world than with the kingdom of God. We have sought our own selfishness and our own self-indulgent pleasure rather than the sacrificial worship of God. and the kingdom of God. We have been called to seek first God's kingdom and righteousness, but instead we've sought first our own comfort and our own protection, our own security. This is the way we should be confessing. And not only that it's us, but that we've received this as a heritage passed down from previous generations. And so they confess their sin, and then they plead and they ask God to bring them restoration, to bring them freedom from the bondage that they're in, that they deserve to be in, but they're asking. That God would be good and that God would deliver them and that God would bring them freedom. And then they make a covenant in writing and they sign their names to you. This is a a wonderful pattern and it's something that we should take to heart and we should be seeking the Lord as a church. Whatever if you're not at Forest Hill then you should be encouraging your church to be doing Seeking the Lord, listening to His Word, responding to His Word, confessing our sin, asking the Lord for His mercy. and and covenanting with God that we will be his people uh if he is gracious to us. Let's pray. Father, we need you. We certainly have sinned against you. We certainly have been lazy. We have we have made every excuse why we don't need to go to church. We don't need to tithe. We don't need to give sacrificially to missions. We we grumble and complain when we go to church and something is uncomfortable or sacrifice seems too long or is boring. We act as if the most important thing that could happen is our own entertainment and our own comfort and pleasure. We are lazy. We are selfish. We are callous. We are not seeking first your kingdom and your righteousness. That is the truth, Lord. Forgive us. Have mercy on us. Change our hearts. Grant us repentance. Grant us true and saving faith, eagerness to obey you by faith, and fruitfulness of lives that are lived for your glory. We ask this, Father, in Jesus' name Jesus' name. Amen. That is Nehemiah chapter 9. Tomorrow we are going to move on to chapter 10 and It is going to be a lot of names, but there's going to be a purpose to it to those who have sealed their name to the covenant. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.