Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 637. of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We're here at the end of September in twenty twenty-three. Uh just one more day left in this month if you're following along with us. Of course these are meant to be posted and available for later, so if you're looking at this later, just know that it was originally recorded and posted on uh December, September 29th 2023. And we are in Nehemiah 3. And the building of the wall is going to commence. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your word. Your word is just a wonderful gift that you, the God of the universe, who spoke all things into existence, that you would give to us your very word. And that you would reveal yourself to us and that you would call us to know you by reading about the story of your people and Father, help us to see this as our story and help us to see what you have for us in it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Nehemiah chapter 3. Then Eliashab, the high priest, rose up with his brothers, the priests, and they built the sheepgate. They consecrated it and set its doors. They consecrated as far as the Tower of the Hundred, as far as the Tower of Henanel. And next to him the men of Jericho built. And next to them Zakir, the son of Imri built. The sons of Hasanah built the fish gate They laid its beams and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and next to them Meramoth, the son of Uriah, the son of Hakkaz, repaired. And next to them Meshulam, the son of Barakiah, son of Meshizabel repaired, and next to them Zadok, the son of Bana, repaired, and next to them the Tokoites repaired, but their nobles would not stoop to serve their lord. Joeda, the son of Pasea and Meshulam, the son of Besodia, repaired the gate of Yashana. They laid its beams and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and next to them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Maronathite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah the seat of the governor of the province beyond the river. Next to them, Uziel, the son of Harhiah, goldsmiths. Next to him, Hananiah, one of the perfumers, repaired, and they restored Jerusalem as far as the broad wall. Next to them, Raphael, the son of Hur, ruler of half the district of Jerusalem repaired. Next to them, Jediah, the son of Harumoth. repaired opposite his house, and next to him Hatush, the son of Hashib Hashabnia, repaired Malkaijah, the son of Haram, and Hasib, the son of Pehat Moab, repaired another section and the tower of the ovens. Next to him Shalom, the son of Halohesh, ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, repaired he and his daughters. Hanan and the inhabitants of Zenoah repaired the valley gate, they built it, they rebuilt it, and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and repaired a thousand cubits of the wall. As far as the dung gate, Malkaijah, the son of Rekab, ruler of the district of Beth Hakaram, repaired the dungate. He rebuilt it and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars. And Shalem, the son of Kol Hosep, ruler of the district of Mizpah, repaired the fountain gate He rebuilt it and covered it and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and he built the wall of the pool of Sheila. of the king's garden, as far as the stairs that go down from the city of David. After him Nehemiah, son of Azbuk, ruler of half the district of Bethzur, repaired to a point opposite the tombs of David. as far as the artificial pool, and as far as the house of the mighty men. After him the Levites repaired, Rehum, the son of Bani, next to him Hashabiah, ruler of the Haschic half district. of Keilah repaired for his district. After him their brothers repaired. Bavai, the son of Henidad, ruler of the half district of Keilah, Next to him, Ezir, the son of Jeshua, ruler of Mizpah, repaired another section opposite the ascent to the armory at the buttress. After him, Barak, the son of Zabi, repaired another section from the buttress to the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest. After him Merrimouth the son of Uriah, son of Hakaz, repaired another section from the door of the house of Eliashib to the end of the house of Eliashib. After him the priests, the men of the surrounding area, repaired. After them Benjamin and Hashab repaired opposite their house. After them Azariah, the son of Maessiah, son of Ananiah, repaired beside his own house. After him Benui, the son of Henadad repaired another section. From the house of Azariah to the buttress and to the corner. Palal, the son of Uzai, repaired opposite the buttress and the tower projecting from the upper house of the king. At the court of the guard, after him Pediah, the son of Perosh, and the temple servants living on Ofel, repaired to a point opposite the water gate On the east and the projecting tower. After him the Tokoites repaired another section opposite the great projecting tower as far as the wall of Ofel. Above the horse gate the priests repaired After him, Hananiah, the son of Shelemiah, and Hanan, the sixth son of Zalaf, repaired another section. After him, Meshelem, the son of Barekiah, repaired opposite his chamber. After him, Malkaijah, one of the goldsmiths, repaired as far as the house of the temple servants and of the merchants opposite the muster gate, and to the upper chamber of the corner. And between the upper chamber of the corner and the sheepgate, the goldsmiths and the merchants repaired Wow, that's kind of almost reads like a genealogy, doesn't it? But it's not a genealogy. It is an account of who is repairing what section of the wall. And I love this section. This chapter is so encouraging to me uh as a pastor and one who has a concern for the church because Again, Jerusalem is a picture of the church. And so much of what we learn here uh can can be rightly applied to church leadership and church growth and church building and things like that. And so what we have here is a needful work that must be got done by God's people. And even though Nehemiah has the burden on his heart And Nehemiah got the permission from the king, and Nehemiah came and assessed the situation and called the people to the task. Nehemiah is not doing the task. by himself. He is getting everyone in the community involved in doing the work. And the work is being divided up so that all of these different people have an opportunity to participate. And I love some of the little details we get. You know, there's daughters involved in this, there's goldsmiths involved in this, there's perfumers involved in this. There's people who live in Jerusalem, like the priests who are repairing opposite their house. There's people who don't live in Jerusalem, who we're told they're they're from Jericho, or they're from Mizpah, or they're from uh, you know, the the Gibeon uh the Gibeon section, the city of Gibeon, the Gibeonites. You know, but they're contributing too, even though it's not their city, they're contributing as well. We're also told of a few people who don't participate. Right? This verse 5 sticks out like a little sore thumb here, and next to them the tacoites repaired, but their nobles would not stoop to serve their Lord. So even though this great work is going on and everyone's chipping in and helping, the nobles among the Tokoites are like, hmm, we're not gonna eh Eh, that's below us. That's not our work. We're not gonna stoop. We're not gonna stoop to that level. We're too good for that kind of work. But other people mean goldsmiths were people of standing within the society, they would have been wealthier. And in some cases, the way we read of the record is that they paid for more. They did more work because they had more resources. So some people took their position within society as an excuse to not do the work. Some people took their position within society as an excuse as a reason to be obligated to do more work. And everybody worked hard, but some people did do more work than others. And verse 13 is probably the most impressive little bit here. And that is Hanan and the inhabitants of uh Zenoah repaired the valley gate. They repaired it and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and repaired a thousand cubits of the wall. That's about 500 yards of wall. And that's a very sizable chunk. Other people are just repairing the section opposite their house, which might be I don't know, twenty feet wide, twenty-five feet wide, thirty feet wide. These guys are doing five hundred yards, about fifteen hundred feet, about four hundred and fifty plus meters, if you like to think think in the metric system, although I don't know who you are if you like to think in the metric system, you're not. Anyway, um so All of this work is being done and there's not only wall building it needs to be done, but there's also gate construction it needs to be done. And every time we're told about the gate, we're told that they need to set the doors and the bolts and the bars, realizing that this needs to be strong, this needs to be well built, and people are taking it This is yet another picture in Scripture that we've seen repeatedly throughout this study. Everyone who is a Christian. is called to be committed to the work of the church and should, as our membership valves at Forest Hill asks, should support the worship and work of the church to the best of your ability. And this is exactly an example of supporting the work of the church. Well I think at a base minimum it means if you are a professing Christian and you love the Lord Jesus Christ, you should be a member of a local Bible-believing gospel-preaching church, and you should tithe at your local church. I think of how much more of God's work would be done if people tithed. The average American evangelical Christian gives around 2% of their income. to the church. And a substantial minority of people do tithe. Right? So that 2% is an average of all professing evangelical Christians, and there is a subset that does tithe. That's 10%. Tithe means 10%. I don't think it's a law that's binding on New Testament Christians, but I think it's a biblical principle. That's consistently found even from the earliest chapters of Genesis, Genesis fourteen and following. So it's not part of the Mosaic Law, it predates that. I don't think it's exactly binding on believers, but it's a biblical principle that we should Be trying to at least meet as a as as a just a matter of the course of life, give ten percent. So most American evangelical Christians give almost nothing, less than one percent. So if you understand how math works, that means there's a lot of people giving one or less than two. If there's people giving ten and the average gets dragged down to two. So be a member of a local church and tithe, but that's not it. That's not the end of it. It's not, I'm a member of the church and I tithe. Show up and worship. Roll up your sleeves and help serve You know at Forest Hill, help set up, help tear down, help bring food for the food table, help by greeting visitors and engaging them, helping them feel welcome and uh a part of the church, answering questions they might have. Right? Serve in the nursery, serve in junior church, take a turn teaching Sunday school. Host a Bible study gathering in your home. uh organize an outreach event and you know tell tell the church leaders about it. Our vacation bible school this past summer was a wonderful project that was totally put together by Some wonderful women in our church who said, this is what we want to do. And we said, go for it. That's awesome. So we are all called to this work together. The walls of Jerusalem did not get built only by you know Nehemiah and the priests or Nehemiah the priests the Levites and those who were you know paid to do the work. It was everybody taking their part, rolling up their sleeves and getting to work. And when that works together, it's a beautiful picture of the church in that Let's pray. Father, thank you for this picture of your church doing what it should be doing here in Nehemiah. We see so many times in scripture when your church is not doing what your church should be doing, but here's one where the church is doing what it should be doing. Call us, stir us, draw us to be faithful. in response to what you've taught us in your word today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. That is numbers, numbers. Nehemiah. Hello, Jason. Are you half asleep? That is Nehemiah chapter three. Tomorrow we'll go right on to Nehemiah chapter four and just to give you a sneak preview. We looked down there as we were reading through the scripture passage, but It's titled Opposition to the Work, and then we see San Balat raise his ugly head again. So that's on tap for tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.