Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And uh what you see on your screen is not exactly accurate Oops. We are on day 647, which is Nehemiah chapter 10, and is the signing of the covenant after the communal repentance. of Nehemiah chapter nine. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, we love you, and your word is truth, and we are your people, and you have called us by name and you have made us your own, and we thank you for for that. Write your word on our hearts. Be our teacher. Help us to grow in understanding you and your ways and in following after you and trusting in you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Nehemiah chapter ten. On the seals are the names of Nehemiah the governor, the son of Hakaliah. Zedekiah, Sarah, Azariah, Jeremiah, Pasher, Amariah, Malkijah, Hattush, Sheboniah, Malek, Harem, Merrimouth, Obadiah, Daniel, Ginnathon, Barak, Meshulam, Abijah, Midemin Mazea, Bilgai, Shemeah, these are the priests, and the Levites, Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binwe of the sons of Henadad, Cadmiel. And their brothers Shebaniah, Hodiah, Khalitah, Peleah, Hanan Meka, Rehab, Hashabayah, Zakir, Sherabaya, Shevaniah, Hodaya, Bani, Beninu the chiefs of the people Perash, Pehat Moab, Elam, Zatu, Bani, Buni, Azgad, Bivai, Adenijah, Bigvi, Adon Atur, Hezekiah, Azur, Hodiah, Hashem, Bezai, Herath, Anathoth, Nevi, Magpeosh, Meshulam, Hezer Mesh, Mesh Zabel, Zadok, Jeduah, Pelatiah, Hainan, Ananiah, Hoshea Hananiah, Hashab, Halohesh, Pilha, Shobek, Rehum, Hashabnah, Maesia, Ahija, Hanan, Anan Malik, Harem, Banah. The rest of the people, the previous the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, the temple servants, and all who have separated themselves from the peoples of the lands to the law of God, their wives, their sons, their daughters, all who have knowledge and understanding. join with their brothers, their nobles, and enter into a curse and an oath, to walk in God's law that was given by Moses the servant of God and to observe and do all the commandments of the Lord our Lord, and his rules and his statutes. We will not give our daughters to the peoples of the land, or take their daughters for our sons. And if the peoples of the land bring in goods or any grain on the Sabbath day to sell, we will not buy from them. the Sabbath or on a holy day, and we will forego the crops of the seventh year and the exaction of every debt. We also take on ourselves the obligation to give yearly a third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God, for the showbread, the regular grain offering, the regular burnt offering. the Sabbaths, the new moons, the appointed feasts, the holy things, and the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel. And for all the work of the house of our God. We the priests, the Levites, and the people have likewise cast lots for wood offering to bring it into the house of our God. according to our fathers' houses, at times appointed year by year, to burn on the altar of the Lord our God as it is written in the law. We obligate ourselves to bring the first fruits of our ground and the first fruits of all fruit of every tree year by year to the house of the Lord, and also to bring to the house of our God, to the priests who minister in the house of our God, the firstborn of our sons and of our cattle, as it is written in the law and the firstborn of our herds and of our flocks, and to bring the first of our dough and our contributions, the fruit of every tree, the wine and the oil, to the priests. To the chambers of the house of our God, and to bring to the Levites the tithes from our ground. For it is the Levites who collect the tithes in all our towns where we labor. And the priest, the son of Aaron, shall be with the Levites when the Levites receive the tithes, and the Levites shall bring up the tithe of the tithes to the house of our God, to the chambers of the storehouse. For the people of Israel and the sons of Levi shall bring the contribution of grain, of wine, and oil to the chambers where the vessels of the sanctuary are, as well as the priests who minister, and the gatekeepers and the singers. we will not neglect the house of our God. Amen. That is Nehemiah chapter 10. This list of names is important because these are men who put their names on the line as being willing and eager to enter into this covenant. And the language that's used is they're entering into a curse and an oath that's used in verse 29. They join with their brothers, their nobles, and enter into a curse and an oath to walk in God's law that was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe and to do all the commandments of the Lord our Lord. Yahweh our master, what that the Lord our Lord means there in verse 29, and his rules and his statutes. Now this reflects a seriousness that they they mean their repentance, they mean their confession. They are earnest in their pledge. However, we know they will not be able to keep this pledge. They will not walk in God's law given by Moses, the servant of God. They will not observe and do all the commandments of the Lord our Lord and his rules and his statutes, because no one can save one, the Lord Jesus Christ. So this is a beautiful move here. It's it's a wonderful act of faith and it is to be commended, but it is also a a sign that these people, although their hearts are in the right place, although they are fully sincere and genuine in their intention, they will not be able. to keep the law because they are sinful people. Now, the law can restrain great wickedness in the community. And so they make specific pledges regarding some patterns that were really bad where they were giving their daughters to the people of the land or taking their daughters for our sons, which we saw at the end of Ezra. And uh they were buying and selling on the Sabbath day. So these blatant violations, they are going to make an earnest effort to curb. But Do not mistake here. Don't be drawn in to think, yes, this is what we need to do. Make vows and keep them and make promises and keep them because that is ultimately law. And salvation does not come by the law, salvation comes by the gospel. There's only one promise-keeper, there's only one law keeper, there's only one oath-keeper, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself in the covenant of redemption. to redeem us from the curse of the law that these men took upon themselves. These men legally and sincerely took upon themselves the curse of the law. And so it was on them and their children. And Jesus is the only one who can take it off of us. It's only the death and resurrection of Jesus. It's only his payment for our sins on the cross in our place that relieves us. of the curse of the law. And so we should not get drawn in too much by Nehemiah chapter 10 and say, this is the kind of thing we need to do because our New Year's resolutions, our earnest commitments, our promises and covenantal oaths are things that we, in and of ourselves, are not able to keep. We need the grace of God. We need the righteousness of Jesus applied to us. We need the sacrifice of Jesus to forgive us. We need the grace of God to cause us to stand. and to walk in the ways of God. And so we need to be careful and take these things within the whole context of scripture and understanding that key biblical distinction between law and gospel. Law is focused on what I am going to do in obedience to God. But gospel says I have disobeyed God fundamentally, and so it focuses on what Jesus has done to redeem me from the curse of the law. Now there is a principle in here that is commendable, and that is that the Levites who receive tithes are giving a tithe of the tides. for the house of God. Levites have to live, they have families, they have uh you know things to provide for. They receive tithes from the people for their livelihood, but they take a tithe of the tithes And they are committing that to the house of God. This principle of a tithe of the tides for the house of God, for the temple, for the kingdom of God is a principle that many churches follow and we follow at Forest Hill in that we take one tenth of our regular operations budget and we put it toward world missions, foreign missions, to to not neglect the house of God, building the house of God through the proclamation of the gospel and the planting of churches. in the uh further parts of the world. And so we do that by partnering with uh Reformation Hope and Souls Winning Ministries in Haiti, reaching Africa's Unreached, in northern Uganda, which reaches into South Sudan and the Republic of Sudan. and the surrounding areas and also RUF International at Johns Hopkins University. So we're blessed to be able to partner with those three ministries because they're reaching the nations and we take a tithe of the tithe. in order to do that. We believe that Christians should give their tithe to the general fund of their local church and that the elders and deacons should take a tithe of that tithe and make sure it's being invested. to not neglect the house of God. In this case, the building of the house of God that Jesus promised he would do when he said, I will build my church. And so that's what we we're committed to do as a church. So we need the gospel to save us. We need Jesus to redeem us. And redeemed by God's grace, we should be by the grace of God. Committed to living lives that honor Him and not neglecting His house because of how good He's been to us. Not because we think we can make ourselves righteous, but because we know that Jesus Christ the righteous one is our righteousness and our peace. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you for redeeming us from the curse of the law. Thank you for washing away all of our sins. Thank you for making us yours forever. Help us be faithful to your house and to your people. Faithful by your grace. Faithful through the gospel. Faithful through the faithful one, Jesus Christ. Christ, who is our only righteousness and our only foundation for living. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Nehemiah chapter 10, and I hope that you do have a blessed day in the Lord.