Good morning and welcome to walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Old Presbyterian Church. It's day 634 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, one chapter at a time. We come to a new book, but not really a new book, because Nehemiah is really a continuation of Ezra. Ezra and Nehemiah, uh both probably written by Ezra, the scribe and priest. We don't know that for sure, but uh that is what tradition holds and it also makes sense. A lot of the evidence within the books seems to make clear that it was It was Ezra who wrote it. Nehemiah contributed to it. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we seek him together in his word this morning. Morning. Heavenly Father, you are great and you are so good. You are powerful. You rule over the affairs of nations. You sit enthroned on high. And yet you care tenderly about the needs of your people. Your heart is moved at our distress. You care for us in our needs. And so we ask that you would Teach us today through Nehemiah 1 how we should respond when we see deep problems and deep concerns. within and among your people, that we might respond faithfully even as Nehemiah did. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. Nehemiah chapter one The words of Nehemiah, the son of Hakaliah. Now it happened in the month of Kislev in the twentieth year. As I was in Sidd Susa the Citadel, that Hanani, one of my brothers, came with a certain man, men from Judah And I asked them concerning the Jews who escaped, who had survived the exile, and concerning Jerusalem. And they said to me, The remnant there in the province who had survived the exile is in great Trouble and shame. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates are destroyed by fire. fire. As soon as I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days. And I continued fasting and praying before the God of heaven, and I said, O Lord God of heaven. The great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments. Let your ear be attentive and your eyes be open to hear the prayer of your servant that I now pray before you day and night for the people of Israel, your servants, confessing the sins. of the people of Israel, which we have sinned against you. Even I and my father's house have sinned. We have acted very corruptly against you, and have not kept the commandments The statutes and the rules that you commanded your servant Moses. Remember the word that you commanded your servant Moses, saying But if you return to me and keep my commandments and be Do them, though your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of heaven. From there I will gather them and bring them to the place that I have chosen to make my name dwell there. They are your servants and your people whom you have redeemed by your great power and by your strong hand. O Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servant and to the prayer of your servants who delight to fear your name and give success To your servant today, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man. Now I was cup-bearer to the king Nehemiah chapter 1. The biggest thing we see in Nehemiah 1, and I want to make sure we don't miss it. Is that when we see something of great concern among the people of God, some great trouble, some great shame, some great vulnerability, whether it be a false teaching or a false or a corruption or a worldliness or an idolatry or a spiritual weakness or what have you. Our first response should be to seek the Lord. It should be to go to God, not run to social media and make an angry post that'll get a bunch of likes and shares and And have an outrage echo chamber. That's how the world handles distress. Not to get so depressed and disgusted that we break off from the people of God. And we go our own way because that is the way that the world handles distressing and troubling things. You know, social media outrage echo chambers and isolation and rejection. The sort of cancel culture, right? This is the way the world responds to things that it sees that it considers troubling. We are the people of God. We are the redeemed and loved and kept people of God, and we should seek the Lord. We should seek the Lord. And as Forest Hill Church, the man of Forest Hill Church, we're going to start this Saturday morning. At 8 30 in the morning, right out back here at my house in the backyard around the fire pit, and we're going to start seeking the Lord. Because there are things to be concerned about in the church, in our homes, in our families, in the influences and the lives of our children, in our community. And so our call, very clearly here from Nehemiah 1, is to seek the Lord. And so we're going to gather and we're going to seek the Lord. And notice how Nehemiah prays. He's focused first on who God is. Well, first of all, he sits and he weeps and he mourns and he fasts. And he prays for days. This is not a rushed, perfunctory, quick prayer that's just part of you know the daily routine. He is setting aside time. But see how he addresses, O Lord God of heaven, Yahweh Elohim, our covenant Lord, who is the great God, the mighty one of heaven. the great and awesome God. So that's his power, that's his strength, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his covenant Commandments. That's his commitment to his own. He approaches God and he knows that his hope, his answer, is going to be found in who God is and in who God is for his people. And then he asks God To hear. Let your ear be attentive and your eyes open to hear the prayer of your servant. That I now pray before you day and night for the people of Israel, your servants. So once he's established who God is, And why it is that their only hope as the people of God is in who God is and who God is for his people, he then pleads that God would hear him. Because if God doesn't hear our prayers, There's no point in praying. We're just talking to ourselves. This pattern is repeated in the Psalms over and over again. We need God to hear us. And then it's Confession. It's confession. Confessing the sins of the people of Israel, which we have sinned against you, even I, and my father's house. have sinned. So there's the collective sin of God's people, which yes, Nehemiah confesses because he is a member of the people of God. This is solidarity. This is a covenant union, so we confess our sins, but also my sins. I and my Father's house. It's not collective praying for the sins of those believers out there. It's we believers, including me, we've sinned against How have we sinned against God? We've acted very corruptly against you, and have not kept the commandments, the statutes, and the rules that you command. That's something we could all pray. Amen? We can all pray that kind of prayer. We have not done what God has commanded us to We just haven't. And so we need to confess. So seeking God earnestly, setting aside serious time to do it, finding hope in who God is and who God is toward his people, and then confessing sin. He then asks God to remember His word. We always pray to God on the basis of what he has promised, on what he has spoken. We cannot hold God to something that comes from our desires, we we ask God to remember the word that He's spoken. And this word that He spoke through Moses is if you're unfaithful, I'm going to scatter you, but if you return and keep my commandments I'll gather you. And here's a group of people who have been regathered from the scattering. And they're back in Jerusalem and they're back in Judah, and they need God. They need God. Who are these people? Verse 10, I love it. They are your servants and your people whom you have redeemed by your great power and your strong hand. Oh, so often our prayers are me focused. I want, I need, my desire, me. But Nehemiah's prayer is relentlessly God-centered. He's praying for the people of God. And he's not primarily focused on the people of God or on his own distress over the people of God. He's primarily focused on who God is and who God is regarding his people and the word that God has spoken and the fact that they are your servants, your people, whom you have redeemed by your great power and your strong hand. And it's on the basis of that that he asks specifically for success as he goes to meet with King Artaxerxes. And we'll look at that tomorrow. This is such a great pattern of prayer for us, and we need to see it as that. We're being given this by God so that we can pray in this way. And it is my prayer that we will do exactly that. It is my prayer that we will gather, we will commit ourselves, we will meet, we will pray. Earnestly, honestly, zealously, biblically, God-centeredly, covenantally, all the ways that we see here in Nehemiah one. Let's pray. Father in heaven, oh how we need you. Every day we need you for you Alone are great. You are matchless in your power. There is no one who holds a candle to how radiant and glorious and strong and powerful you are. And you love us. Your steadfast love and your faithfulness toward your own people. Is unbreakable. The unbreakable bonds are sealed by the blood of your Son. So hear us. We confess our sin to you. We have not done what you have commanded us to do, but we have sought our own way. Hear us and heal us And revive us and reform us and restore us. We pray. In Jesus' name and for his glory. We pray this In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's Nehemiah chapter 1. Tomorrow we'll go right on to chapter 2. I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.