Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to Exploring Romans, a chapter-by-chapter devotional exposition of the greatest letter ever written. These devotionals were originally presented as part of walking with Jesus through the Bible, which was a three-year journey through the whole Word of God that we did as a church from 2022 to 2024. And now exploring Romans. We are here in Romans chapter 8 today, and uh those of you who know me well will know that this is my favorite chapter in Scripture, uh, and I think it's okay to have a favorite chapter in Scripture. Romans is the the magnum opus of the Apostle Paul. It is his uh most complete exposition of the gospel that he proclaims, which he sends to the church in Rome ahead of time so that they would know exactly what it is that he teaches and believes and proclaims. And Romans 8 is at the heart of this book. And it really is helping us flesh out what it is to live as a Christian. As we've been justified by faith alone, as we're sanctified and dying to sin, and yet we're still struggling with sin, like Romans 7 says. We're living in this tension between the already and the not yet. We're living in a in a time of having been redeemed, but still sinning and still suffering and still groaning for for the future, for perfection to come. How do we live? And Romans 8 beautifully lays that out for us. So let's pray, and then we'll dig into this wonderful chapter. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this beautiful chapter in God's Word. Your word, Father, it is truth and life to us. We pray that you would write this word on our hearts. That you would show us your truth and your gospel and our calling as believers through this word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done What the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do, by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin He condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the spirit set their minds on the things of the spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh, for if you live according to the flesh, you will die, but if by the Spirit You put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God, for you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. But you have received the Spirit of Adoption as sons by whom we cry, Abba, Father, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. For I consider that the sufferings of the present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weaknesses, for we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers And those whom he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect. It is God who justifies who is to condemn. Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who was at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, for your sake, we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No? In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us, for I am sure that neither death nor life Nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. Amen. Well, from no condemnation to no separation, Romans chapter 8 gives us what we need. to know, to believe, and to live this Christian life. So it does begin with this wonderful statement that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. I already loved Romans 8, so much. I the first chapter I preached on when I became the pastor of Forrest Hill Presbyterian Church back in the summer of twenty fifteen. I preached ten sermons. through this chapter, but then my my oldest son Andrew came to personal faith and trust in Jesus Christ partly through Romans 8, 1 and 2, and really understanding that. And He gave a devotional to his football team that really put all the pieces together for him and that really solidified the the strength of the gospel in his heart and mind. Another reason why I love this chapter, not only does it begin with the good news of no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, not only does it end with the good news of no separation from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. But this chapter also helps us flesh out and understand in practice what is for many Christians a very difficult and abstract doctrine, but a doctrine that I love because it is God, and that is the doctrine of the Trinity. So this is a chart, again, from the ESV Study Bible, that shows us how the Trinity is unfolded in Romans chapter 8 The Father sent His Son, condemned sin in His Son, He gives life to our mortal bodies by His Spirit in us. He foreknew us, He predestined us, He called us. He justified us and he glorified us. He is for us. He gave his son for us. He justifies us and he loves us. The son is in believers. He's in us by his Holy Spirit. He died and he was raised again. He's interceding for us at the right hand of the Father. And he loves us. The Spirit indwells believers, leads believers, bears witness with the spirit of believers, and helps us in interceding for us in our weakness. And so This wonderful picture of our triune God, all three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, working together for our salvation, both to predestine us and to call us and to justify us and glorify us, but then this chapter really really flushes out our sanctification in in the walk of sanctification in this life. This is how Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are at work for us and for our salvation. It's a beautiful chapter in helping flesh out Trinitarian theology as our Ephesians 1 and 2, by the way, which would be right up there with Romans 8 as among my favorite chapters in Scripture. So we don't have a long time to take a deep look at this passage. I would encourage you to do a deeper study. Derek Thomas has a wonderful book called How the Gospel Brings Us All the Way Home. That's based on his series of sermons through Romans 8. There's my series of sermons through Romans 8 from the fall of uh from the summer of 2015 that I would recommend to you. But let's just take a few minutes to look at some highlights here. So, remember how Romans seven ended. Romans seven ended with, Wretched man that I am. Who will deliver me from this body of death? And then thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So that I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. So here's the key. Our flesh. Our flesh still sins. Our flesh is still corrupt. So who's going to deliver us? Well, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And much of what Romans 8 is fleshing out for us. is how it is that we have hope and strength and encouragement and power and perseverance as we continue to struggle with the reality that our flesh sins and suffers While we love the law of God, have been freed from all condemnation, and are groaning for our full adoption, which is the redemption of our bodies So it begins with this foundation of our justification. There's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And then how is that possible? Because the spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. You're no longer under a law that says obey or die. But you're under a law in which the Spirit has given us life by applying Christ to us, by putting us in Christ and putting Christ in us. And this is possible because God did What the law as a written code could not do, and that is that he sent his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin he condemned sin in the flesh. So there's no condemnation for us Because Christ was condemned in our place. The righteous requirement of the law is fulfilled in us. Not through our flesh, but through the Spirit applying the benefits of Christ's redemption to us. So by the Spirit, by faith, in Christ, The condemnation of the law has been settled, and the righteous requirement of the law has been fulfilled. If we walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. If we're not trying to earn our salvation, if we're not trying to Make it work in our own strength because we're going to show how righteous we are. No, no, no. Instead, by the Spirit, we're going to trust in Christ. We're going to live by the spirit of adoption that calls us sons of God because Christ is in us. And we are in him. And so even though our body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness, we have inside of us the redeeming power of Christ in us the hope of glory. We have life in us. We have righteousness in us. We have power in us by the Holy Spirit. And this makes us debtors, not debtors to live according to our flesh. Again, this self-determination, this You can do it, pull yourself up by your bootstraps, be a man, suck it up, buttercup. No, it's not that. It is we're gonna trust in Christ. We're going to follow in the power of the Holy Spirit. We're going to live out what God has put in us by the Holy Spirit. The Spirit who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in us. The same Holy Spirit who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in us. And so one day we will be resurrected like Christ. He will give life to our mortal bodies. We will be resurrected, we yearn for that, we groan for that, but in the meantime, the Spirit lives in us And we are not to live according to the flesh, but we're to live according to the spirit. We're not to be self-determining. Our culture loves to say, I am my own man, I belong to myself. uh I can determine for myself what I'm no the the Christian has settled all that aside and has said I've been bought by the blood of Jesus Christ I belong to God The Holy Spirit lives in me. God is my Father. I am an adopted child of God. And in this life, I know I'm going to suffer. Because I belong to Christ, Satan will come after me, the world will come after me, my flesh will rage against this new life in Christ, but I will suffer with Christ. knowing that I will be glorified with Christ as I patiently wait for that which I'm hoping for. All of creation is hoping along with me. They're waiting and hoping right along with me for the revealing of the sons of God. That is, for Christ to come again and to show the world who the sons of God are, as we are glorified to be like him. But in the meantime As we're waiting in hope for that which we do not see, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. Even when we don't know how to pray, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. And God is working all things together for our good, our true eternal spiritual good, not our temporary fleshly, earthly happiness good. Because we live by the Spirit and not by the flesh. You see, Romans 8. 28 can be ripped out of its context when you say, Well, God works all things for good, so I know I'm going to get that promotion at work. God works all things for good, so I know I'm not going to get that cancer. That is a selfish fleshly, short-term, not spirit-led, not eternity-focused, not Christ glorifying way of looking at Romans 8. 28. God works all things for our true eternal spiritual good. And that's not just a way of coding over the bad stuff of life. It's a way of saying that God is working all of this, even the bad stuff. Sometimes when you get fired from your job or you get the cancer or you have to struggle with something for a long time you can't overcome, in that pain, God is working For your good, because he loves you. He's called you to be his own, and he is for you. And if he is for you, then nothing that stands against you will have power over you because nothing can separate you from his love. And that's the encouragement and the blessing we get from Romans chapter 8. Let's pray. Father, we love you because you first loved us. We belong to you because you've made us your own. We have power by the Holy Spirit living within us. to follow you by faith because Christ has been condemned for us and removed condemnation and he's fulfilled the righteous requirement of the law for us and we have everything we need in Christ Help us to walk by the Spirit today, and not by our flesh. Help us to wait with eager hope and longing, even as we groan for the full redemption of our bodies We love you and we long for you, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Have a blessed day in the Lord Thank you so much for joining us today on Exploring Romans. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. If you have any questions or feedback, you can email me My email address is pastor at foresthillpca. org. That's pastor at foresthillpca. org. If you want to learn more about our church, you can just jump on our website, foresthillpca. org.