Please turn with me to Romans chapter eight. Romans chapter eight This is the first of four messages in Romans 8. I would just encourage you that over this next Month, as we are in Romans 8, take some time to read through the whole chapter on your own several times Take advantage of available resources that are already on our YouTube channel or our sermon audio page because this is a wonderful, wonderful chapter. in God's Word, and I commend it to you for deep and rich study. It will repay going as deep as you can because it's a wonderful, wonderful passage of God's Word. Romans chapter 8 We're going to be focusing on verses 1 to 4. I'm going to go ahead and read verses 1 to 11. I'm tempted to read the whole thing, but let's hear God's holy word. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, he condemns sin in the flesh. in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death But to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to Him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you. He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh, for if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God, for you did not receive the Spirit of slavery to fall back into fear But you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry. Abba, Father, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. Let's pray. O gracious Heavenly Father, what wonderful good news you give us in your Word. And we get such clear good news for this life and for eternity. Here in Romans 8. As we begin our study of this wonderful chapter, would you please come by your Holy Spirit? Would you please write your word on our hearts? Would you be glorified in us as you draw our hearts closer to Christ and Christ in us, the hope of glory, shines more fully in all that we are and all that we do by the power of your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You may be seated. I told you a couple of weeks ago that Romans 8 is my favorite chapter in the Bible. And you might think, well, what how can you have a favorite chapter in the Bible? Several years ago There's a wonderful little book on Romans 8 called How the Gospel Brings Us All the Way Home, written by Derek Thomas. And in the beginning of that little book, Derek Thomas says that Romans 8 is his favorite chapter of the Bible, and people have asked him the same question. What do you mean by that? And he says, well, I apply to it the 10 minutes before dying test. If I'm in the hospital and I know I'm dying and I've got ten minutes left on this earth and you can read one chapter of the Bible to me, I'm probably not going to ask you to read Leviticus 23. I will ask you to read Romans eight. Derek Thomas is not alone in that assessment. Martin Lloyd-Jones, famous Welsh preacher of the mid-20th century, called Romans 8 the chapter of chapters. Martin Luther said that if the Bible were a ring, Romans would be the gem on the ring, and Romans 8 would be the brilliant splendor emerging from that gem. So we're going to spend four weeks in Romans 8. It hardly seems like enough time. I actually began as the pastor of Forest Hill in the summer of 2015. I preached 10 sermons on Romans 8. If you stick around another 10 years, I might revisit Romans 8. I think every 10 years is a good pattern for revisiting this wonderful chapter in God's Word. Romans eight begins with wonderful wonderful words And they prompt a question. The question is simply this. What would be the best news that you could ever possibly hear? Some of you might be thinking, wow, what if I won like hundreds of millions of dollars in a lottery? That would be awesome. Of course you have to play in order to win. You think some kind of or maybe Elon Musk makes me his sole heir to his vast fortune and empire. But you know the reality, right? Most people who win the lottery spend what they win very quickly or others uh help themselves to it. All of a sudden new friends emerge out of nowhere who have great needs and Very soon the money's gone and and with more money comes more problems, the stress. Elon Musk himself very recently said, whoever said money can't buy happiness knew what they were talking about. He is not a happy man if you know him. He's just kind of a he's got a lot of needs in his soul. So that's not really the best news. I I know for some in our congregation the news of no more cancer would be a joyful relief to just go and get a scan and see that there's no evidence of cancer The cancer is gone. That would be amazing. That would be wonderful good news. And we would certainly rejoice. But we know that's temporary, right? All healing that we get in this life is only temporary. There is good news that is truly good. And that is eternally and unshakably good. And we find it in Romans 8, verse 1. There is, therefore, now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. This is a foundation for all of life. Romans 8 doesn't ignore the fact that while we live in this world, we're going to deal with difficulty. Cancer. Brain surgery, broken families, depression, addiction. I mean We pray as a church for the needs in our congregation, but if we really prayed comprehensively, if we really prayed for every need of every person in our congregation, we would do nothing but pray for hours and hours. Romans eight doesn't ignore that. In fact, it gives us the strongest equipment. For facing those things. And it begins with this proclamation: there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. With those words, our state of our relationship with God actually shifts fundamentally in a way that changes everything Because once condemnation is removed, we call it justification, but that seems like an abstract theological term. Once condemnation is removed. And we are righteous, we are not guilty anymore. God is then free in justice to adopt us as his children. And that's why I decided to read through verse 17, because I wanted to get to that spirit of adoption. Because what happens with the removal of condemnation is God is now free to adopt us as his children into his family and so our position before God changes from being slaves to being children. You see, while we're under the law and while we are in Adam, we owe God our obedience. God's law is binding on every single person in the world because everyone in the world was created by God in his image and is under obligation to serve and obey God. There is nobody who's ever lived in the whole history of the world who can say, well, I don't believe in God, so therefore I don't need to keep his law. Well, that just shows that you're breaking it. It doesn't mean you don't need to keep it But as long as we're under the law and as long as we're in Adam, we are slaves. We're held in bondage to sin. Jesus said: everyone who sins is a slave to sin. And so we're under condemnation and we're in bondage to slavery and we're toiling away in resentment, even if we're religious. Even religious people who think that by being a good, dutiful religious person, they're going to earn favor from God remain enslaved. You know what the difference is between a slave and a child? You know both slaves and children have to obey. Slaves have to obey their masters, children have to obey their parents, but there's a difference. Right? There's a difference in that relationship. A slave is motivated to obey the master out of fear. Fear of harsh punishment, dire consequences, fear in the ancient world, a slave could even be put to death for their disobedience or sold off to a far worse situation. But a child a child obeys out of love Because the child is loved and loves and trusts his or her parents in return. And there's no sense in which a child should ever be laboring under the thought, well, if I disobey, my parents are going to sell me. We may joke about that with our kids sometimes. We might. I've done it. But hopefully it's well understood that it's a joke Right? Because we're not actually going to sell our kids or put them to death, even though we might Quote the first episode of the Cosby Show and say to our kids, I brought you in this world, I can take you out. But those kinds of things are, of course, meant in humor. Because a child obeys, should obey out of love and trust in a secure relationship. And this secure relationship is firmly established by Romans 8 verse 1. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. This is a therefore hinge, it's one of the key turning points in the Book of Romans We had one at the beginning of chapter five as we shifted from how how we are justified by grace through faith to sort of what it means to live that out. We have peace with God. And we're going to have another one at Romans 12, which will shift from the whole doctrinal section of the book into the application section of the book that starts in Romans 12. So this is one of the three major hinges of Romans. And it's telling us something that is profound. Notice what it's not saying. One of the best things you can do when you're really looking closely at a verse. To clear away misconceptions that might be in your mind is to look carefully at what it's saying and also think about what it's not saying First of all, what it's not saying is, therefore there will be no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. It's not just saying at the judgment day, when Jesus returns, when all people are judged, there will be no condemnation. It's saying there is, therefore now, no condemnation. But also notice that Paul doesn't say Christians are not condemned. Because that could be a state where it's like, okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna not condemn you, but then there's like a trial or a test. And if you mess up the condemnation could come back on you. There is, therefore, now no condemnation. And we'll talk about when we get to verse three why it is that God was able to do that is because Jesus has taken all the condemnation on himself and so there is none. It doesn't exist The condemnation that you deserve for your sins, the condemnation that I deserve for my sins, isn't being held by God back Until we screw up one too many times and then out it comes. It doesn't exist. It is gone. That is the best news you could ever hear. Why do we need this news? Well, it's because We struggle. We need to be reminded of this foundational truth. And I am almost 52 years old, and I've been a Christian just about my whole life. And I've been seriously studying God's Word and teaching it to other people for a long, long time. But I still need to remind it of this truth on a regular basis. Because I'm human. And our struggle. We talked about this two weeks ago when we were in the end of Romans 7. We have divided hearts. We still have an abiding, remaining, sinful nature. The old man has been dethroned from our lives, but the flesh still wants what the flesh wants. And Satan never shuts up. One reason why we need to be in the Word of God every day of our lives is this little test. You can take a day off from being in God's Word when Satan takes a day off from lying to you. He comes at us with doubts, he comes at us with accusations, the fiery darts of the enemy. And the world never stops being the world. And so we need this reminder, we need this reminder that as much as we struggle, as much as we are so far short of the perfection that we long for, We have the good news that there is no condemnation. We agree with the law of God that we sinned. We confess it every week when we gather. We confess our sins before God because we agree with the law of God that we are sinners, but we also agree with the gospel of God that there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. In unpacking this, starting in verse 2, Paul says the reason why there's no condemnation. And the reason why there's no condemnation is because he says, for The law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death There's two governing principles that govern the lives of everyone in the world. Everyone in the world is operating under one of two governing principles. Everyone is born into this world operating under the law of sin and death. That's what you're born of the flesh. You're born into this world under that law, under that operating principle, sin and death. The Bible says the soul that sins will surely die. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. Right. Somebody's got their Bible memory verses going. That's good. Right? But that's what we're all born into. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. There's no one righteous, no, not one. We're born under that reality. And it's an absolute power that holds sway over every single member of the human race. Some people who aren't Christians have a basic understanding of, well, good people go to heaven and bad people go to hell. And sometimes we as Christians want to argue against that and say, no, no, no, no. It's only Christians who go to heaven. And they what they're thinking is, oh, you Christians think that you're the only good people in the world. So maybe instead of arguing with them, if someone ever says to you something like that, well I think good people go to heaven and bad people go to hell, you say, you're exactly right. That is precisely true. Now, how do we define what a good person is? Who is good? What did Jesus say when someone came up to him and said, Good teacher? What must I do to inherit eternal life? He said, There's no one good but God. A good person is a person who didn't break the law. Well, that eliminates all of us. And so that's the news that we're born under. We have no excuse for our rebellion against God's holy standards. We know what God's standards are. But God's standards that we all know by our conscience and by nature just condemn us. To be set free We need a law that's more powerful than the law that condemns us. We need a new law. We need a law that sets us free. And Romans 8. 2 says, the law of the Spirit of life. has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. Jesus, when he said, everyone who sins is a slave to sin, he said If the sun sets you free, you will be free indeed If the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed. And the Holy Spirit is the one who is the giver of life because he takes what Jesus has accomplished and he applies it to us. So that it becomes ours. The law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. So what Christ Jesus did by his life, his death, his resurrection His ascension to glory, his intercession for us. What he has done in his work is applied to us by the Holy Spirit. And so the law of the Spirit of Life sets us free. It sets us free. I fly, you guys, many of you know this, but I fly to Uganda just about once a year to go and do mission work with Reaching Africa's Unreached. And sometimes I think about it And it amazes me. It's absurd really to think about it. Do you know how much a fully loaded plane Designed for international travel ways. It is it is immense. It is absolutely Unbelievably heavy, fully loaded with passengers, hundreds of passengers, fuel, baggage, plus the plane itself. How in the world does it get up into the air? Because there's a greater force The laws of aerodynamics are powerful enough to overcome the law of gravity. It lifts into the air by the power that is greater than that which holds it down The Spirit gives us life in Christ in a way that is more powerful. It overcomes the law of sin and death. The hold is broken. And we take off into eternal life because the Spirit applies to us the life and the righteousness of Jesus. How can you do that? I love the logic of Romans. Whenever you see a four, it's telling you, how is that possible? So what we started with was There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. You say, Yay! But how is that possible? Verse 2 answers it, for The law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. Yay! But how is that possible? Verse 3. For, this is how it's possible, for God has done. What the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin. He condemned sin in the flesh. We must understand that the law of God is holy and just and good. There's no problem with the law of God at all. It is completely right. The law tells us, have no other gods, but the one true God. Oh absolutely. If there's only one true God, worshiping any other God is wrong, right? You don't worship as a God, something that's not a God. Well, don't worship God with graven images. Worship Him in the way that He wants to be worshipped. That makes sense. If God is God and He tells us how He's to be worshipped, we should worship Him in the way that He says. That makes sense. Don't take the name of the Lord your God in vain. Absolutely. If God's put his name on us and God's called us his own, we shouldn't take his name in vain. We shouldn't use his name as a curse word Or it's just a casual throwaway, but we also shouldn't bear his name in vain. We shouldn't be like, yes, I'm a Christian, it makes no difference whatsoever in my life. That's taking the name of the Lord in vain as well. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. God gives us a gift of rest. One day and seven. We're to keep it. Honor your father and mother, which Jesus teaches by extension, it's all those who are in authority. Well, if God institutes authority, if God gives you parents, you should honor them. Absolutely. Shall not murder, shall not commit adultery, shall not steal, shall not bear false witness, shall not covet. Absolutely, all these things are wrong, and we know they're wrong And Jesus summarized it all by saying, love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. Amen. That is 100% true. The law is a good law. But the law is like a mirror. Clear, accurate. And you look in the mirror and you realize I have a muddy face. I have a dirty, grimy, disgusting face. Is that mirror gonna wash your face? Is it gonna make you clean? No. It will just show you what is. Paul says the law was weakened by the flesh, and it could not do what God did. What do you mean the law was weakened by the flesh? Well, think about Among my many strange idiosyncrasies, there's a guy on YouTube who splits wood. And he's got little YouTube shorts of like testing out different axes and splitting big pieces of wood. And I just like watching that for some reason. I have no idea why. It's just entertaining. So yesterday I was watching this guy and he he got this axe head. He's like this special axe. It's the largest of this particular kind anyway. Imagine you got like the best axe head in the world. It was shiny, it was sharp, it was heavy, it was perfectly well balanced, right? And you went and got an old rotting piece of wood. And you stuck that axe head onto that rotting piece of wood and you went to swing and cut through a solid piece of oak or hickory or something. What's going to happen? What's gonna happen? Are you gonna split that wood? No! Is it because there's a problem with the axe head? No, it's because there's a problem with the handle and the accent has to work through the handle. The law is weakened by the flesh. In other words, the law tells us what to do and what it's telling us to do is exactly right. The law tells us what not to do. What it tells us not to do is exactly right. But because we're the ones who have to do it, we're the rotten handle. We can't do it. And so God did it. God did it. What did he do? By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin He condemned sin in the flesh. Jesus came in true human nature. But notice it says only in the likeness of sinful flesh. People who saw Jesus didn't get this. Even his own brothers didn't get this. Jesus looked like Every other human being. And in his essential human nature, he was a true human being. But he was a true human being who was given a nature like Adam was originally given. And so he appeared in the likeness of sinful flesh. Everyone else thought he was a sinner just like the rest of us, but he wasn't. He was a perfect human being. Because he was sent in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin. He comes into the world, he takes on a real human body, real flesh and blood, but without sin, so that God could condemn sin in the flesh of His Son on the cross There was a great exchange. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. So that through him we might become the righteousness of God. And this connects back to how it is that there is, therefore, now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. It works like this. I've got two cups here. I emptied one of them. Imagine that's completely 100% totally empty. That's Jesus. No sin whatsoever. This is us. Lots and lots of sin. Right? And so on the cross, God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, all of our sin. was put on Jesus on the cross. And so it's gone from us. Now some people imagine That there's like a conditional forgiveness. Jesus took all the sin and all the condemnation on himself. But man, if we mess up, he might just put it back on us. I mean you can mess up once or twice, but the third time it's coming back. But that's not what happened on the cross. Remember what Jesus prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane the night before the cross? He said, Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. Because Jesus didn't just take our sin upon himself. He took the wrath that we deserve. And he consumed it. He drank it gone. And it's gone. Listen, it's gone. I know it's a silly illustration, but the condemnation we deserve is gone. When Jesus said it is finished, he meant it. And when Romans 8:1 says, There is therefore now no condemnation, it means there is no condemnation. Jesus took it all and dealt with it. And his resurrection is the proof that it's settled. Because he ascended back into heaven and he sat down at the right hand of God the Father as the righteous exalted one Which means all the sin was consumed up. All the condemnation was consumed up, and we now have a living, righteous Savior. Amen? The condemnation is gone. So, if you're going to memorize a verse in Scripture, you memorize Romans 8. 1. And when the devil comes at you with, oh, but look what you did. You say to him, There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And no condemnation means no condemnation. So shut your stupid trap and leave me alone because I'm a child of God and there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. God condemned our sin in the flesh of Jesus, in order that, verse four, in order that The righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. I love grammar. I was an English teacher before I became a pastor. I still teach English some on the science. I love grammar. And the power of prepositions. These little tiny words, but they make all the difference. That the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. It doesn't say by us, it says in us. What does the law require? The law requires that we love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. The law requires that we love our neighbor as ourselves. The law requires that we never Sin against God in thought, word, or deed, either by doing something God forbids or failing to do something God requires. That's what the law requires. We can't do it. That's never going to be fulfilled by us. But because God condemned sin in the flesh on the cross, the righteous requirement of the law is fulfilled in us. You see, there's a great exchange. It's not just that Jesus took all of our sins upon himself and drank the cup of God's wrath to the bottom, which he did, but he also gave us his perfect record of righteousness. Jesus never sinned in any little tiny way. He always loved God with all of his heart, mind, soul, and strength. He always loved his neighbor as himself. He always obeyed his father. And he gives us that fulfillment of the righteous recovery of the law. The Spirit puts that in us. In us Which means not only is there no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, but those who are in Christ Jesus are in the righteousness of Jesus, and the righteousness of Jesus is in us. When you feel inadequate, you are. But Jesus isn't. And Jesus is in you by the Holy Spirit. God doesn't look at you and see someone who's continually falling short. God looks at you and sees his son. And he knows that you do in fact measure up because of what has been done in you that could never be done by you. Now this gives us a new way to walk. It gives us a new way to walk. Notice how how verse 4 ends. In order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. Now I want I want to stop you from doing what our flesh and the devil wants us to do. And that is taking this condition and thinking that somehow we have to measure up in order for this to be true of us. That's not what he's saying. He's saying it's this is for those who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. What does that mean? Well those who live according to the flesh are those who are in Adam and those who are under the law. And they are relying on themselves. They are self-righteous. They are self-reliant. They believe that they can stand before God on their own two feet and that they will measure up. That's what it means to be walking according to the flesh. It's like I can do it. I will do it. Look at me. But those who live according to the Spirit are those who say, I know I couldn't do it. I never could do it. I never would do it. But Jesus did it. And by the grace of God and by the Holy Spirit, Christ is in me, and I and in him, and I give thanks. And I rejoice. God doesn't put His Holy Spirit in us and the righteousness of Christ in us so that we can start relying on our flesh again. We need to walk by faith. To walk by faith is to walk in the Spirit. To walk trusting in Jesus is to walk in the Spirit. It's the Spirit who prays for us in our weaknesses. It's the Spirit who keeps us mindful of the truth of God through the trials of life. If you ever look at your life and you think, I thought I'd be so much better than this by now. You know, birthdays are a time to think about that sometimes. And I know many of you are older than I am, but I think many of you are also a lot younger than I am. So, you know, twenty-one-year-old me Sure thought that fifty-one year old me would have had it figured out a whole lot better than I have. And I'm sure That 51-year-old me thinks that 81-year-old me will have it figured out a whole lot better than I probably will when I get to be eighty one. Can I get an amen, Bobby? Because in this life, we're always falling short. But that's why we always need Jesus. We never get to a point where we're like, I got it from here, Jesus. I got it. Thanks for the thanks for the ride. I'll take it from here. No, never. And that's what it means to walk by the Spirit. To walk by the Spirit means to walk by faith, to walk depending upon Christ, to walk in not my righteousness, but yours. Not my work but yours. The message of Romans 8, 1-4 is that God has done all the saving work we need in Jesus. The Holy Spirit applies that to our lives so that we can now live. Depending on the Holy Spirit, trusting in Jesus, and have a confidence that does not come from ourselves. All self-righteousness, all self-reliance are vain and empty. It's the Olympics. I don't know if you guys are watching the Olympics. I love what the Olympics. I'm gonna confess, like most people, I love the Summer Olympics a little bit more than the Winter Olympics. I think that's because I can sort of see myself doing some of the things they do in the Summer Olympics. I can't see myself doing any of the things they do in the Winter Olympics. It's all crazy. But You know, there's you see this in the athletes when they win a medal. You see And I don't want to name names or condemn anybody, but you see it. You see the difference between those who are walking according to the flesh and those who are walking according to the spirit and what they say out of the overflow of their heart. There are those who say I knew I could do it. I worked hard and I'm so proud of myself. Look at what I've done. I did it. And those who say, God is so good, He blessed me, He gifted me, He deserves all the glory. Michael Phelps won more gold medals than anybody else in the history of the Olympics. And if you know his story, where it left him was on the verge of suicide. He had no hope. He had nothing to live for. Ray Lewis shared Christ with him. And I don't know where Michael Phelps' heart really is before the Lord, but at least it it took his eyes completely off of himself and gave him a connection to something that was greater than himself. We need the Holy Spirit to continually remind us that we have no judgment to fear, but we also have no reason to boast in ourselves. Every good gift we have comes down from God and we thank Him for it. And every fear of inadequacy Any fear of condemnation has been settled by Christ, and we thank him for it. That's what it means to walk by the Spirit. We're just getting into this wonderful chapter of good news. I pray that God would work it into our hearts so deeply that we would live differently as those who know who we are in Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, it is truly the best news we could ever hear that there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. That's true now. And for eternity. The condemnation is gone. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain. He washed it white as snow. It is finished. And we have nothing we can boast in. We're not good people who are doing a good job of following Jesus. We are helpless But we're upheld by your Spirit. We are inadequate, but Christ is our sufficiency. We are wayward, but Christ is our good shepherd who never fails. We are weak, but you are strong. Be our strength and be our God. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.