Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good. Good to be with you as we are starting now week six, as we're seeking gospel comfort, moving from guilt through grace to gratitude, using the wonderful tool that God has blessed the church with for nearly 500 years, the Heidelberg Catechism. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. For the gift of being able to gather together and study your word and study the truth of the gospel and find gospel comfort through your word. As we gather and we look at the Heidelberg Catechism together, we pray that we would be rooted in the Word of God, in the gospel, and guided by your Spirit. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, we are here on our sixth week together, and we're going through these sort of one question at a time. Now the Heidelberg Catechism is 129 questions, and they're grouped around fifty-two Lord's Days. They're intended to sort of be taught through week by week. A lot of churches who are in the Reformed tradition and who subscribe to the Heidelberg Catechism, they'll use their Sunday evening service to teach through the catechism one set of questions per Lord's Day. So we're on Lord's Day five which we were in last week and we're continuing in it this week. And it's kind of, Lord's Day 5 is kind of a pivot. It's really getting us past guilt and into grace. And we see the pivot toward grace here with question number 12 that we looked at last week. We're actually doing question 14 today, but we're reviewing here, with this word favor. At the end of the question, since according to God's righteous judgment we deserve temporal and eternal punishment, how can we escape this punishment and be again received into favor, and this word favor is another word for grace. How can we be received into the grace of God? Well, the answer is that God demands that his justice be satisfied. Therefore we must make full payment, either by ourselves or through another. And this is why we said question twelve is really sort of pivoting toward grace because it talks about being received into God's favor And it talks about the possibility that justice could be satisfied by a full payment made through another, which is ultimately going to lead us. And then we look to question thirteen. Can we by ourselves make this payment? And the answer is certainly not. On the contrary, We daily increase our debt. Because we are sinners, and because everything we do is tainted by sin, even our righteousness is as filthy rags, as Isaiah says. There's no way we can pay down the debt, but we just keep increasing the debt. And so today we come to question 14. Can any mere creature pay for us? Answer, no. In the first place, God will not punish another creature for the sin which man has committed Furthermore, no mere creature can sustain the burden of God's eternal wrath against sin and deliver others from it. So we've got two problems here. One is a problem of justice. God's not going to punish another creature. There's the key. God's not going to punish another creature for the sin which man has committed. It's our responsibility. Man has committed it. Man has to pay. And then secondly, how could a creature bear the full burden of God's eternal wrath against sin? It seems utterly impossible. It is utterly impossible for that to be the case. Well let's look at some scripture supporting these ideas. First of all, Psalm 479 says, truly no man can ransom another, or give to God the price of his life. For the ransom of their life is costly, and can never suffice that he should live on forever and never see the pit. So this is telling us that a mere man, right, one who is only a man, would not be worthy enough, would not be sufficient enough, because the ransom for the life that we owe because of our sin is costly. And no man can pay the ransom. No mere man can pay the ransom for another. And so if no mere man can pay the ransom for another How much more impossible is it that some sort of animal or some sort of sacrifice of an animal would possibly suffice? In fact, Hebrews 10. 4 says, For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. That is absolutely the word impossible means exactly that it's impossible. I think of Solomon when he was dedicating the temple and he sacrificed thousands of bulls and goats and it it wasn't enough. It wasn't enough. Think throughout the whole history of the people of Israel, how many bulls, how many goats, how many lambs were sacrificed at Passover, at the Day of Atonement, in the morning and evening sacrifices, and it's never ever enough because it's impossible. for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sin. And yet Psalm 130, verse 3 says, If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? We can't have our sin against us. That's clear. And yet animals, even countless animals, couldn't pay for us. Even another man, who is merely a man, could not pay for us. And so that leads us back to this impossible situation. Can any mere creature Pay for us. No. In the first place, God will not punish another creature for the sin which man has committed. Furthermore, no mere creature can sustain the burden of God's eternal wrath against sin and deliver others from it. Now, this is setting us up because tomorrow, I mean the next devotional we do, which is on Wednesday We're going to be looking at the question of the next one, which is question fifteen, and that is what kind of substitute could there be? What kind of being could be uh adequate to make this payment. Because remember we have this idea um that justice could be satisfied by a full payment either made by ourselves or through another. And so if the another can't be ourselves And if the another can't be a mere creature, then who could the another be? And that's really what we're going to get to tomorrow. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are gracious that when we were left with no other options, you sent your son. Your one and only eternal Son, whose worth is more than all the riches of the universe, because he is the infinite, holy, eternal Son of God. Next time we'll be looking more closely at him, but we know, we know that he is the answer to this dilemma. And so we thank you for him. We thank you that he has made us clean And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for a Heidelberg Catechism Devotional. A little bit of a shorter one today, but we're keeping it focused and moving on Next time we're going to be looking at question 15, hopefully you can join me for that. As always, we're going to respond today to God's word by worshiping him together in song. Not all the blood of peace on Jewish altar slain Could give the guilty conscience peace, Or wash away the stain. But Christ the heavenly land takes all our sins away. He sacrifice a nobler name, a rich. Your blood and faith My faith will lay your hand on that dear head of line while I could help Then can I stand under confessance My soul looks back to see the burden thou display? Lying on a cursed tree and no other guilt was there being weary too. To see the curse removed, we bless the Lamb with a cheerful voice and sing his bleeding love.