Turn with me please to Romans chapter one, verses sixteen and seventeen. Romans 1, 16 and 17. This is a short passage. You see it set apart in the ESV, the righteous shall live by faith. This is the thesis statement of the book of Romans. It's the main point. It's the very heart of Paul's gospel. This is one of the great texts in all of scripture for understanding what what is the gospel and and why is it important and uh what difference does it make and how does it save us. It's it's right here in these couple of sentences. So let's hear this portion of God's holy word. Romans 1, 16 and 17. For I am not ashamed of the gospel. For it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we love you and thank you for your word. We thank you for this powerful statement of the truth of the gospel, and we pray that your Holy Spirit Would write it on our hearts and minds, would weave it into the very fabric of our lives, just as you did for the Apostle Paul. Would you do that for us? That our every heartbeat, our every breath, our every moment of our lives would resonate with joyful glory in the gospel, the power of God for our salvation, the revelation of your righteousness. We pray that you would do this work in us by your Holy Spirit for the glory of your name in and through our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Are you ashamed of the gospel? Now here we are in church on a Sunday morning. We've just been singing praises to God and praying, so of course you're going to say, No, I am not ashamed of the gospel. But what about tomorrow if you get into an awkward conversation? Maybe this afternoon you get into an awkward conversation with a family member who's not a believer. And it starts to look like it might be going in a spiritual direction. Are you going to be ashamed of the gospel? Are you going to be joyfully unashamed? Unconcerned with what they might think, but just overflowing with the joy of the gospel. That's another question, a lighter question. Have you ever dealt with an inquisitive four-year-old who just likes to keep asking you why? Everything you say is immediately followed by the question, why We're going you go to church. Why? Because it's the Lord's Day. Why? Because it's the day that Jesus rose again from the dead. Why? You know, or we're going to grandma's house. Why? Because we're supposed to have dinner there. Why? Well because we like to see grandma. Why? Like it could just be the why questions that are on parade. Well Following the flow of Paul's thought in any one of his books, but especially in Romans, it's helpful to actually see that that Kind of thought process is actually unfolding before you, but instead of why and because, what we get is the word for. And if you look at today's passage, we have three key fours, right? One at the very beginning, four, I am not ashamed of the gospel. Second one, right after that, for it is the power of God for salvation. And then verse 17, for in it the righteousness of God is revealed. What we really have here is Paul's thesis statement. It is why he's writing this letter and what is at the core of what he believes. Now I've said that, a thesis statement, you'd be wondering like what in the world thesis statement? I kind of remember something about that from high school English class. It always made me nervous and uptight. Have to come up with a thesis statement and gonna write a thesis paper, this all sounds very academic. Well, you know, I I have taught high school English for many years, and one of the things that I taught, have taught to students is how to write a good thesis statement. And really the thesis statement is just your answer to the question of like, why are you writing this paper? What is your point? What are you trying to prove? Why? Why write this thing? And uh sometimes when I tell that to students, your thesis statement is the answer to the question of why are you writing this paper? Let's say so the thesis statement is because Mr. Grambemo assigned this paper to me. No, like what are you trying to prove? What's the main point? Right? And then it should be answering Why do you believe that kinds of questions? I'll give you an example that some of you will be able to relate to and some of you won't, but I can't possibly give an example that everyone can relate to. So let's say, for example You were wanting to write a thesis paper to prove that Michael Jordan, and not LeBron James, is the greatest basketball player ever. You would state the position very clearly. Michael Jordan is the greatest basketball player of all time. But then, of course, the question would be Why? Why do you say that? And then you have to give some reasons. And if you thought about it, you came up with some good reasons, you might come up with a thesis statement like this. Michael Jordan is the greatest basketball player of all time because his unparalleled combination of individual dominance, relentless competitive drive, and team success evidenced by six MBA championships with six finals MVPs, five regular season MVPs, ten scoring titles, defensive excellence, and an unmatched cultural impact. sets him apart as the standard against which all other players are measured, making him not only the most accomplished, but also the most influential figure in the history of the game. And that is truth. By the way, that is just truth. By the way, that thesis statement comes to you by ChatGPT. It's the only part of this sermon that's AI generated, but um i i it's a it's a it's a good Thesis theme. It's a bit long, but it has all the reasons sort of packed into it. And I want you to see that's kind of what Paul is doing here, because why is Paul writing Romans? Let's just back up for that. Why is he writing Romans Well, he's writing a letter to a church that he's never met before. Paul's never been to Rome. He's had this burning desire to get to Rome. He's already mentioned that, he's been wanting to come to Rome for years. So why does he want to go to Rome? And why is he writing this letter to them? Well, at the end of last week's text, we we came to this point where he said, so I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. So, well, why? Why would you want to preach the gospel for us, to us who are in Rome? The answer is, because I am not ashamed of the gospel. Why? Why are you not ashamed of the gospel? Well, because it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. Well, why? Why is it the power of God for salvation? Well, because in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith. as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. And that final answer, that final why question, is really the very heart of the gospel. The gospel is good news. What makes the gospel good news? What makes the gospel good news? Because it's how God saves us. How is it how God saves us? Well, it's how God saves us because it's how God reveals his righteousness to us so that we can live. Okay. So we're going to unpack this. It's interesting to say that the first thing Paul tells them after he says he's eager to preach the gospel is that he's not ashamed of the gospel. He doesn't immediately jump from, I'm eager to preach the gospel to you in Rome because it's the power of God for salvation. He says, I'm eager to preach the gospel to you in Rome because I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Why would Paul be ashamed of the gospel? Why would he have to bring up that issue? Because in the first century in Rome, and for the church in Rome, which was made up of both Jews and Gentiles, The gospel brought great cultural shame to both Jews and Gentiles. Something they had in common. They had a lot that wasn't in common. And later, Paul's going to have to try to work out some of these issues where they don't have things in common. But one thing they have in common is that believing in the gospel brings them cultural shame. Paul talks about this in the 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, he says Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles. The Jews are saying, show us the power of God. And the Gentiles and Greeks are saying, Show us the wisdom of God. And the answer is Jesus Christ and Him crucified which looks like defeat, looks like losing, looks like ridiculousness. The crucifixion was the most horrifying thing in the mind of a Roman, and the idea of a Messiah who dies is completely contradictory to the Jews. So it there it there's nothing but cultural shame for those who hold the gospel. And you know, this is still true, and it's always been true. And we and we're not going to make step one in the gospel journey until we acknowledge that and accept that. The world has never understood the gospel, and it has always tried to heap shame on those who take the gospel seriously and trust in Jesus for salvation. In Rome this had real consequences. If you were a Jewish background believer and you believed in the gospel and you were unashamed of the gospel, you were unashamed to be known as a follower of Jesus the Messiah, you could be put out of the synagogue. That practice had probably not yet spread to Rome, but they probably had heard rumors that in other synagogues in other parts of the world they were putting Jews out of the synagogue. If they believed in Jesus. And that's a pretty big deal to be put out of the synagogue. That's your whole community. That's your whole support system. Those are your people. And they're going to put you out For Gentiles, for Greeks who don't come from a Jewish background, it would become even worse. Because they risk being accused of impiety or even atheism. Because if you're not a Jew And you say, I don't believe in any of the gods of Rome, and I'm not going to burn incense to the emperor, then actually what the early Christians were called were atheists. You're an atheist. Because the only people who were sort of excluded from the obligation to worship the Roman gods and burn incense to the emperor were Jewish people. If you're not Jewish, well then you're an atheist. And that means you're impious, and to be impious is absolutely unacceptable. The world has different reasons for saying so today, but the world still heaps shame on those who believe in the gospel. They might call Christians intolerant or bigoted or hateful or they might just say you're stupid, you believe in myths, you believe in, you believe that a Jewish carpenter who died under Roman crucifixion two thousand years ago, is the Savior of the world and your eternal hope. It's like It's nonsense. It's like believing in the tooth fairy or believing in the sky fairies who are gonna, you know, save you from it it's it's it's ridiculed But here's the thing we need to see. The world's never going to try, the world's never going to stop trying to heap shame on believers for believing in the gospel. But just because the world wants to heap shame on us doesn't mean that we have to accept that. It doesn't mean that we have to be shamed The world can throw its shame at us, but it doesn't need to stick to us. Because the gospel is The power of God for salvation. It's the only power of God for salvation. And so we should be unashamed of it, even in the face of cultural shame. And that's what Paul's saying here. I am unashamed. I am unashamed to come to you in Rome, even the center of power in the whole Roman Empire and preach the gospel because it is the power of God for salvation. And if God is saving you in his power, what does it matter if the world is culturally ostracizing you? Listen, if I got invited to uh the Ribber's house for steaks on the grill made by Joel And Dawn's wonderful hospitality. And someone told me that by going there, I could not have you know, a McChicken from McDonald. I'd be like, um okay. Like That's a no-brainer. It's like, okay, you're threatening to take this little thing away from me that is okay, you know. I mean I mean I've been hungry at times and gotten the McChicken and the you know from McDonald's, but hey, if you've got something that much better that's being given to you As a gift, it's like, why would I care if you're going to take this other thing away from me? So the world's saying, hey, if you're really a Christian, if you really take Jesus seriously, if you're really into this Jesus stuff, you're not going to be cool with us anymore. Oh, break my heart. I won't be cool with the world anymore. I'm just gonna have eternal life in Jesus. I'm just gonna be saved from my sin and death forever. But the world will think I'm uncool. And they might even take my life. But what is that compared to what I've been given in Jesus? That's what Paul says. He's going to be unashamed. He's going to be unashamed because the gospel is the power of God for salvation. Now that has several implications. If the gospel is the power of God for salvation, the first thing that tells us is that all people need saving and that we can't save ourselves The Gospel of Jesus Christ is not a self-help plan. It's not a multi-step life improvement plan. Christianity is not another religion in the world that offers you another way to make your life better. That's kind of the way the world thinks about it. The world thinks that there's this sort of menu of options out there in the world, and they're all basically life improvement plans One of them might be like the capitalist gospel of the American dream that if you become financially successful, wealthy, independent, you'll be happy, right? Another one might be sort of mystical and spiritual if you have crystals and charms and meditation and you can sort of become a happier person. The other one might be through niceness, being being a do-gooder, you know, do good things. Be be kind to other people, you know, practice random acts of kindness and and you'll become a happier and better person. And maybe over here is like the religious path of you know, believing in God and obeying God's commands. All these are sort of paths of self-improvement. And whichever one you're on, whichever one works for you, that's fine for you. And and so they they're really kind of puzzled and and think it's bizarre that someone who's on one of these paths would criticize people who are on a different path, and that's kind of the way they look at it. But that's not what the gospel is. The gospel begins with a statement that everybody needs saving and we cannot save ourselves, and the gospel is the power of God for salvation. It's not about what we're doing. It's about what God has done in and through Jesus Christ to save everyone who believes. It is good news. It is not a good plan. It's not a good game plan. It's good news about what has happened and how we should respond to it. So all people need saving. We cannot save ourselves. The good news of the gospel is about what God has done. And the third thing it tells us is if the gospel itself is the power of God for salvation. Then what the church needs more than anything else is more gospel. We don't need more clever marketing gimmicks. We don't need more church growth plans. We don't need Anything but more gospel. More gospel in our worship, in our discipleship, in our fellowship, in our outreach. We need the good news of who Jesus is and what He has done to save us to be woven through the fibers of every aspect of our church life because it is the power of God for salvation. But I've said it several times. It's the power of God for salvation. We need saving. We cannot save ourselves. There's a question that the world wonders probably more than we do because we don't say it. And the question is, all people need to be saved. Saved from what? Most people in the world, if they think about what they need to be saved from, They probably think on a sort of subjective, personal, experiential level, they're like, I need to be saved from like being unhappy. Being depressed, being down, feeling alone, feeling lonely. You know, just sort of it's sort of a subjective emotional sort of state that people want to be saved from, something that'll make me feel better, something that'll make me have more purpose in life. But that is not what the gospel is talking about. We need salvation in an objective sense, not in a subjective experiential sense. We need saving in an objective sense from something real, from something eternal. What do we need saving from? Well, the answer to that question is actually found immediately after our thesis statement. This will be the focus of next week's sermon. Just look at verse 18. Four. So why do we need saving? What do we need saving from? Four, because The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth We need to be saved from the wrath of God. Wait, why is God angry with us? He's angry with us because we are unrighteous and we are ungodly. And we suppress the truth about God in our unrighteousness. That's what we need to be saved from. And what's interesting in the flow of Romans, so Paul he's giving his thesis statement. I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes, for the Jew first, also for the Greek, for in it the righteousness of God is revealed. From faith, for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. And then he goes on this little side journey. about what we need to be saved from, which is very, very important. You have to answer that question. And that side journey begins in 118. I hope you have Romans in front of you. We should have followed along with this part Begins with 118. For the wrath of God is revealed, or is being revealed, from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. That's the beginning of this bad news section of Romans, what we need to be saved from. And that bad news section continues all the way through chapter 3, verse 20. Look at chapter 3, verse 19 and 20. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped. And the whole world may be held accountable to God, for by the works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. So from 118 to 320, Paul's on this side journey to say, here's what we need to be saved from, and here's what can't save us. We need to be saved from the wrath of God because we're unrighteous, because we're ungodly. And here's what can't save us. What can't save us is the law, because the law just shows us what kind of sinners we are. We can't actually be saved from it. So it's in 321 that Paul actually comes back to his thesis statement. And finishes the thought of how it is that God's righteousness is revealed and how it is that God saves us from his wrath. So look at 321. It'll be a few weeks before we actually get to this point, but I want you to see this because it's actually connected directly to this thesis statement. Notice he's talking about the righteousness of God is revealed in the heart of his gospel thesis. And here it is. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested or has been revealed. Apart from the law, Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. You see that? 322 is saying the same thing as 117. It's the direct follow-up to 117. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified, that is, made righteous, declared righteous, by his grace as a gift. through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness. Because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Now I'm not going to take time and preach that paragraph because I'm going to do that in a few weeks. But what I want you to see here is that we need saving from the wrath of God. And the way we are saved from the wrath of God is because Jesus was put forth as a propitiation for our sins. Now, how many of you in your daily conversations with people this past week used the word propitiation? That is not a common word, right? But it's actually one of the most important words in the Bible. If we want to understand the gospel, we really need to understand what that means. And it's not a common word. You won't find them talking about it on the news networks. Propitiation is a sacrifice that satisfies the wrath of God. The wrath of God is propitiated or is satisfied by the sacrifice of Jesus in our place, on our behalf, on the cross. So we're saved from the wrath of God because that wrath was poured out on Jesus on the cross. And that sacrifice redeemed us. Again, we'll get into that in much more detail in several weeks when we get to 321-26, but it's where Paul goes in unpacking the righteousness of God as revealed. What do we need to be saved from? The wrath of God. Why is the gospel, the power of God, to save us from the wrath of God? Well, because in the gospel alone, the righteousness of God is revealed. From faith, for faith, as it is written, the righteous will live by faith. The righteousness of God is revealed. It's the same thing that 321 said. The righteousness of God is now manifested, revealed, apart from the law. It's for those who believe. What is the righteousness of God and why is it good news that that's been revealed? 500 years ago, Martin Luther was wrestling with this very question In his study in Wittenberg, Germany, and he was really wrestling with how it is. And and he was wrestling at first because He only had the Latin translation of the Bible, and so in 1515 he's kind of wrestling with what in the world does this even mean? How is it good news to me That the justice of God is revealed, because that's what the Latin said. The justice of God is revealed. And he thought, that's not good news to me. It's not good news to me. That the justice of God is being revealed. And then he read it as the just shall live by faith. In other words, those who are just in and of themselves. Because they are found acceptable by the justice of God, they will live by faith. So when Martin Luther read that, he got that, he was like, wait a minute. So you're telling me, and this d listen, because this is actually a picture that a lot of professing Christians have about the gospel. I'm going to try to make it as clear as I can, because there's two very different pictures here. One is a picture that says, God is just, and God in the gospel of Jesus Christ, who is the King of kings and the judge of all the earth, God's justice will be done in the end. God will be just And God will show His justice right in the end. And that means that those who are just, those who are just, upright, faithful, obedient, will live By faith. And Luther said, how is that good news? Because he said, I know I'm not just. I know I don't measure up. How is God's justice being revealed and those who are just living? How is that good news to me if I know I'm not just? So he was stuck. And he was frustrated. And he kept trying to ask, and the Roman Catholic Church kept pointing him to different ways of sort of being made just. Maybe you can go on a pilgrimage to Rome, maybe you can do enough penance, maybe you can make enough confession. And as Luther would later famously say, if ever a monk could be saved by monkery, I was that monk. Like he did all the things that he was told to do in order to be just so that when God's justice is revealed, he would be able to live. But that is not, not, not the gospel. That's just law. The gospel is the revelation of the righteousness of God. which is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. The righteousness of God is the only thing that can save us from the wrath of God. Listen, here's the question. How righteous do you need to be in order for the wrath of God against you to be appeased, satisfied? How righteous do you need to be In order for God to look upon you and say, all right, that's good enough. You can come into heaven, you don't need to be condemned. How righteous do you need to be? Well, let's look at what Jesus said. Keep your place in Romans 1 and turn with me to Matthew 5. We're going to let Jesus answer this question. What is the standard? In Matthew chapter five Jesus unfolds for us in the first part of the Sermon on the Mount what the standard of righteousness is. And it really begins, this part of it really begins in 517. Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. For I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota Not a dot will pass from the law until all is accomplished. Therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments And teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never again enter the kingdom of heaven. And then but this is what he does in this chapter He says, you heard it was good not to murder people. I tell you that you're not even allowed to hate people or get angry with them or you're going to be subject to judgment You've heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. I'm going to tell you, if you even lust after someone, you've already committed adultery with them in your heart. You've heard that you have to keep your oaths. I'm telling you, don't even make oaths because you're not in control of those things. You've heard it said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, but I'm telling you, don't even resist the evil person. You've heard it was said, love your neighbor and hate your enemy. I'm telling you, you have to love your enemies. Just what you're thinking, wait a minute, I'm not allowed to hate people, I'm not allowed to be angry at people, I'm not allowed to lust after anyone, I'm not allowed to even hate my My enemies have to love them too, just how good do I have to be, Jesus He gives you the answer in verse 48. Just how good do you have to be? What does Jesus say in Matthew 5. 48? You therefore what's the next word? You therefore must be perfect. As how perfect? As your Heavenly Father is perfect. That's the standard of the law as unpacked by the only person who ever fulfilled it. How good do you have to be? You have to be as perfect as God Himself is perfect. Wow. Hopefully, what that's supposed to do is to get us to lay down are attempts at self-righteousness and say, I could never do that Because the good news of the gospel is that the righteousness of God is revealed From faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. And this is what that means. The good news is that God has revealed a way to get his own righteousness. The very righteousness of God, manifested apart from the law, revealed, that we can have it. And how can we have it? By faith. Believe. Believe. There's a little bit of wrestling over this translation of from faith, for faith. You might have a translation that says by faith from beginning to end. This is complicated. I don't want to go into too much detail on it. I'm going to give you a little bit of the summary of this because it's really important. This is the very heart of this. The righteousness of God is revealed. Here's what it literally says in the original Greek. For the righteousness, for in it, that is in the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed out of faith into faith. As it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. Out of faith, into faith. What does that mean? Well To understand that, we have to understand a very simple truth, and that is the word faith in Greek, pistis, can either mean our faith, by which we trust in God, or it can mean the faithfulness of God, by which He is faithful to keep His promises. It's the same word that means faithfulness and faith. It's the same word. So two different options here. Some people say out of faith into faith means out of the faith. that God gives us by which we are justified and into the faith by which we live a life of sanctification, out of faith, into faith. And that's where you get the rendering by faith from beginning to end. From the faith of justification which God gives to us, and we lay hold of the righteousness of Christ into the faith of a faith-filled life of sanctification. And so it's from faith from beginning to end. I don't prefer that interpretation because I like the simplest and clearest interpretation, and that is if if it's the righteousness of God is revealed out of faith, Into faith, and we understand that word pistis can mean either the faithfulness of God or the faith by which we receive it. It is this: God has revealed his righteousness out of his faithfulness. to keep his promises. He promised it. He promised it. In the garden. The seed of the woman is going to crush the head of the serpent. In the pictured in the sacrifices, the blood of the Passover Lamb will cover you. Day of Atonement, you'll be sprinkled with blood. He pictured it, he promised it, and he kept that promise. So the righteousness of God is revealed out of his faithfulness. in keeping his promise, and then it goes into us by faith, into faith, the faith by which we receive. So God extends his righteousness because he's faithful. We receive his righteousness by faith, out of faith into faith, which is why I like the ESV's rendering, from faith for faith, from the faithfulness of God. for our faith, received by faith. What does this mean? What's the bottom line here? The bottom line here is this. You do not earn something which is given to you by the faithfulness of God. You don't earn it. You simply receive it by believing it. How could you possibly earn the whole scope of what we're going to be in the next couple weeks in the end of chapter 1, chapter 2, beginning of chapter 3, I think it's going to take us three weeks or so to go through that material. is all to say, how in the world could you ever think that you could earn that, that you could be good enough? It's not, it's a it's a gift. It's given out of the faithfulness of God. It's received by faith It's the very righteousness of God, the only thing that is good enough to deliver you from the wrath of God, and it's given to you As a gift out of the faithfulness of God, it's received by faith into your life. And even that faith is a gift from God. Here's the way Luther said it, when he finally got it. He got it, and in 1518 in the Heidelberg Disputation, he put it this way. The law says do this. And it is never done. Grace says, believe in this, and everything is already done. The gospel is the revelation of the righteousness of God in a person, Jesus Christ. That person, Jesus Christ, that's why it's the good news of Jesus Christ. He has fulfilled all the righteousness. He has done all the work. He's the perfection of God in a human being. But if we think he did that primarily as a model for us to imitate, if the gospel to us is WWJD We'll put it in some of you might be old enough to remember that. If we think the gospel is Jesus is our example, we need to follow him. What would Jesus do? We need to do likewise if we think that's the gospel. We're on the wrong train heading in the wrong direction. That's law. That's not gospel. That's do this and it is never done. Let me ask you, at what point in your life have you will you reach the point where everything you do is exactly what Jesus would have done in that same situation? You know, there are some religions that teach if you don't do good enough in this life, you'll just get recycled, spit back out again to do better. If you don't get it then, you'll just be recycled, spit back out again, do better. The end of do better is never You could give me a hundred thousand lifetimes and I'm never going to get to the point where everything Jesus did and said and thought is what I do and say and think. He's not, he didn't come into the world as an example. Primarily. He came into the world as a substitute, as a gift, as a free gift of the righteousness of God. given out of the faithfulness of God, received by faith into our lives. We say, it is done, and we believe it. To me, there's this great contrast. I think I mentioned this before. I sometimes repeat illustrations, but to me there's a huge contrast between Something that is said in the movie Saving Private Ryan and something that Jesus said on the cross. And I think it's it it it makes the world a difference. And if we really get this on a deep level, it's so freeing. Saving Private Ryan, when they finally do save Private Ryan, I don't know if you've seen the movie or not, hopefully you have. Maybe a spoiler alert. They do save Private Ryan But when they finally save Private Ryan, all the guys who are sent to save him die. They all die saving him. Right? And in that there's a there's kind of a picture of gospel, right? Dying to save another. But the last thing that he's told By Tom Hanks' character is, do you remember the last thing? It's one of the cruelest things ever said to another human being. He looks at him and he says, earn this. Earn this. Deserve this. Live a life that's worthy of this. What? How That is not what Jesus said from the cross. I think a lot of Christians get bent out of shape. and warped up into self-condemnation and guilt because they look at Jesus on the cross and they think that Jesus is saying from the cross, earn this Live a life worthy of the gospel. And they hear that meaning, live a life worthy of having Jesus to die in your place. No! What Jesus said from the cross, he said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And then he said, it is finished. It's finished. You have no guilt. You have no sin. You have no shame because Jesus took it all as a gift. Freely given. It is the faithfulness of God that assured that it would be accomplished. And we receive that by faith, by trusting, by receiving, and by resting. That's the gospel. And it's the good news that we need to learn again and again and again And to get back to one application of this from the opening, when Paul says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Look, this is me just doing some self-examination, and I think it'll resonate with you. Why am I ashamed of the gospel sometimes? Because I am. Even pastors get into social situations where I'm around family or I'm around friends that I know are not believers or awkward conversation. I sort of want to get out of it, skirt around it. Why am I ashamed of the gospel sometimes? It's because I care what other people think of me. And I don't want to be rejected by people. Why? Why? Well, because I want other people to think that I'm smart and that I'm good. And to sort of put a gold star over my life in their minds. Why? Why do I want that? I think it's because I'm still trying to earn a righteousness of my own In the eyes of other people. I've already been given a perfect righteousness, which is Jesus. It's not me. And so if I tell people, Jesus has saved me. I was lost. I was condemned. I was a sinner on my way to hell. Jesus saved me. They might think I'm dumb, but that's alright. I'm a dumb guy who needs Jesus and Jesus saved me. They might think I'm foolish, but that's okay. I'm a fool that Jesus saved. And what they need to hear from me is not that I'm smart and that I'm good. What they need to hear from me is that Jesus saves. And he saved me. And he can save them because when they go home and they look in the mirror and they lay in their bed at night and they realize that they're not good and they're not smart and they're not really cool after all, they need to realize that they're lost But that Jesus can save them. So why is Paul not ashamed of the gospel? Because he has given up trying to establish his own righteousness in any way, shape, or form. Because he already has it as a free gift in Jesus. If we know that we have that in Jesus, that's all we'll boast of. That's all we'll we'll glory in. And we won't care about what the world thinks because we know what God thinks and we know we've been saved. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for saving us through Jesus, the perfect gift of righteousness. He is the righteousness of God that we need. He is the salvation that we need. We've been given everything in Jesus. There's nothing left out. Nothing is lacking in the perfect gift of your son. There's nothing we need to contribute. There's nothing we can add. We just need to believe. We need to receive. We need to rest. We need to trust. This should help us let go of any and all attempts to justify ourselves in the eyes of the world. Or to establish any righteousness of our own in any way, shape, or form. Set us free from that trap, and may we live as unashamed of the gospel. As Paul himself was, because we know we've been set free. We know we've been delivered. We know we've been given a perfect righteousness that saves us. And it's through Jesus Christ. And we thank you for that. It's in his name we pray. Amen.