This is the last time to preach from this pulpit, which is on wheels. The new one is screwed into the floor. So it's quite the opposite. No, I won't be. No. We're looking today at Romans 2. 17 to 3. 20. What we're really doing is we're wrapping up this section that begins at 118. We've already had two sermons on this section, the end of chapter 1, the beginning of chapter 2. 118 to 320 is all one section, basically dealing with the universality of sin, the universality of guilt, how everyone is a sinner, everyone is guilty, everyone is condemned before the judgment of God. And it's all a setup For the sermon that I'll preach next week, which in three twenty one begins with glorious words, but now And whenever you hear Paul say but God or but now, you know you're in for a gospel treat because that's the big turn. So that's what's coming next week. Lord willing at Advent. But today we're going to be wrapping up this section by looking at Romans 2. 17 to 3. 20. But if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in God and know his will and approve what is excellent because you are instructed from the law. And if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of children. having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth. You then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing, do you steal? You who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who boast in the law, dishonor God by breaking the law, for as it is written, the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law. But if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his circumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code and circumcision, but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly. Nor is circumcision outward and physical, but a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God. Then what advantage has the Jew Or what is the value of circumcision? Much in every way. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God. What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means Let God be true, though every one were a liar, as it is written, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God? What shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? I speak in a human way. By no means. For then how could God judge the world? But if through my lie God's truth abounds to his glory, why am I still being condemned as a sinner? And why not do evil that good may come? As some people slanderously charge us with saying, their condemnation is just. What then? Are we Jews any better off? No, not at all. For we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin. As it is written, none is righteous, no, not one. No one understands, no one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. In their paths are ruin and misery. And the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law So that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. For by works of the law, no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we have a very serious, very heavy, and very important passage in front of us today. This is your word. We need your Holy Spirit. We are totally dependent upon your Holy Spirit to help us understand your word. That we might live it rightly, that we might respond to it in faith, that we might trust in Jesus, that we might follow Jesus as we're called to, as your children. So please work in our hearts. Please bring conviction. Bring comfort. Bring change where we need it most. You know our hearts, you know our needs. Come and speak to us all. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. When people get news they don't want to hear, they often try really hard to get out of it. They try to rationalize, they try to justify, they try to minimize or deflect, all in the vain attempt to try to avoid something that is really unpleasant. And the more unpleasant it is, the more we'll have these efforts to try to wiggle our way out of the situation. Here are some examples of how we do this. Well the doctor's probably being overly cautious. They always want to run extra tests just to make more money. My boss doesn't like me. It's not about my performance. Everyone does it. It's not like I'm hurting anyone. Why are you judging me? You're not perfect either. Oh, that professor's tests are just impossible. No one passes them. Well, that can't be right. There must be some kind of mistake We do it all the time. And nowhere is this human tendency more pronounced and more entrenched than when we are trying to wiggle our way out of conviction of sin before a holy God. The Bible is very realistic and very insightful, and it not only tells us this truth, but it illustrates it in several examples that cut close to home. At the very beginning, very first sin, Adam knew he got the commandment from God, do not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for in the day that you eat of it, you will surely die. He ate of it He was confronted with his sin by God, and he says, You're right, I'm wrong, I'm so sorry, it was my fault. I no. He says, This woman who you put here with me She gave it to me and I ate. Yeah, I ate, but let me explain to you all the circumstances. It's really her fault. It's really your fault, God. Fast forward, and Moses goes up on the mountain to receive the law of God. The Ten Commandments written by the finger of God, the first of which is, You shall have no other gods before me, the second of which is you shall not make a graven image to bow down and worship it. He's receiving these Commandments, and he comes down from the mountain because God says you better go down there. The people are not doing right. And he comes down and he sees the people bowing before a golden calf. And he throws the tablets down and they shatter on the side of the mountain, symbolizing how badly the people have broken God's law. And he confronts Aaron, his brother, his brother! Who was made high priest over the people of God? What's going on? And what does Aaron say? You're right. It's my fault. I should have known better. I was put in a position of responsibility. I blew it. I'm sorry. Please forgive. No Well, the people gave me their gold earrings and we threw it in the fire and it out came this calf Fast forward a couple of years, generations go by King Saul. He was told to wait for Samuel to show up before the battle so that Samuel could make a sacrifice. Samuel was the high priest. Saul was the king. Those are two different offices. No one was allowed to hold both of those offices at the same time. So it's very important that Saul keep his place as king and not try to take on the responsibility of being a priest. He has to wait for Samuel. Well he gets tired of waiting. It's the last day, you know. Samuel said he'd be there, and it's the last day, and he's still not there, and the people are getting disgruntled, and the people are starting to pack up, and so he panics. And he takes things into his own hands and he offers a sacrifice, which he was explicitly told not to do. Samuel comes and confronts him and he minimizes it and he says, well I didn't have any other choice, so I forced myself and offered the burnt offering. Oh, Samuel, you or Saul, you forced yourself And then years later he's told by God to kill all of the Amalekites and all of their animals because they had been a curse on God's people for generations. They've been given generations to repent and they hadn't repented. And Saul kills almost all of the Amalekites except the king and the animals. And again he's confronted by Samuel. And he says, oh yeah, we've we've definitely done exactly as the Lord commanded. And Samuel says, well then what is this bleeding of sheep? that I hear. And he says, Oh well, well you know, of course we wanted to save some of the animals as a sacrifice to the Lord. Blaming God. This is just the human tendency. And that's why this section of Romans is kind of long from 118 to 320. It's long because people keep wanting to find a way to wiggle out of it. Again, where are we in the argument? Paul says the gospel is the power of God for salvation. Salvation from what? Well, from the wrath of God. The wrath of God's being revealed from heaven against all the unrighteousness and all the ungodliness of men. And immediately when people hear that, they start thinking, well, that's not me, is it? I mean, surely I'm not. the guilty one, am I? I mean, I'm not that bad. I mean and they come up with all kinds of excuses. And it seems if you're following Paul's argument, the the more that he describes things, the more he imagines the objections that will come up, and he has to then deal with the objections. And then the more he deals with his objections, the more You know, more objections come up and he has to deal with them until finally he just brings out all this scripture in in 310 to 18 to just be absolutely as clear as clear can be And it all ends, the culmination is there in verses uh nineteen and twenty. Every mouth is stopped. The whole world is accountable before God. By works of the law, which is works of human obedience, no human being will be justified in his sight. It is an absolute You, on Judgment Day, if you're trusting in your works, whatever they may be, you will have nothing to say. Works of the law, he's already explained in chapter two, can be those who are done, those that are done by people who have the written law, like the Jews, but also can be works of the Gentiles. That's why he says both Jew and Greek. Because Gentiles have the law of God written on their hearts, by God's general revelation and by being made in the image of God. So, whatever the case, no human being will be justified before God by their own moral good works. But to get here, Paul has to, to get to 3, 19, and 20, he has several more arguments he has to dismantle, several more hiding places he has to expose. before he can bring that final conclusion. And the first one that we're going to deal with today, that's at the end of chapter two, is people's tendency to trust in outward religion. But I'm a religious person. And even faithfully, like with the Word of God. And what we're going to see here is that outward religion does not save. Paul talks about circumcision here. We can apply it to baptism, which will come up again in chapter 6. Circumcision and baptism are both external signs that are in need of spiritual fulfillment, or they're empty and meaningless. Religion is a great place to try to hide from God. You can build up an edifice of ceremony, of ritual, of deeds. You can call it the five pillars of Islam, you can call it the Eightfold Path of Buddhism, or you can call it the Ten Commandments of Judaism, and you can build up this scaffolding, you can build up all this stuff and hide from God. behind it and it's not going to work Paul's talking about Jewish people. He calls them out for four things in particular that they would take pride and take their defense in. First, it's their name. They're called Jews. They call themselves Jews. That's an honorable name. It's drawn from the tribe of Judah. And if you know the story of the naming of the twelve tribes, Judah is the one who's named in praise of the Lord So the name means praise the Lord. So they take the name that it means praise the Lord. Second is they're instructed in the law, they know God's word. Third, they taught and even preached the law to others. And fourth, is they were physically circumcised. Surely that all is enough. Surely that will stand before God. No. Paul says no. Not without a change of heart. Not without an inward transformation. That brings forth real faith, real trust. It's not hard to see how these same four principles transfer to people who call themselves Christians. Who are in the church today, but who are not from the heart trusting in Jesus and Jesus alone for salvation. He's saying four things. First, being called a Christian. I remember we were in college at UMBC. That's where Beth and I met. And uh You know, we're walking around campus and she had a a a close friend who was Jewish and we're walking around campus with her and uh she looked at one of the kids in the dorm room had Christmas lights. in in the dorm room window and her friend was like, Oh, all these Christians who were on campus Why would someone having Christmas lights in their window mean that they're a Christian? But in her mind, as a Jewish person, like basically, if you celebrate Christmas, you call yourself a Christian, well then you're Christian. And in her mind, the campus was just full of all sorts of Christians Were they really? Because they put Christmas lights in the window? Right? Because they say Merry Christmas? Because they even go to church maybe? Or grew up in the church? So being called a Christian is a noble name. It's the name of Christ. One who belongs to Christ, one who follows Christ. But if it doesn't reflect an internal reality of the heart, it's just a name. You can call yourself anything. Secondly, being instructed in God's Word is good, but head knowledge never saved anyone. One of the evangelism things we learned yesterday. Saving faith is not head knowledge. Kids, if you've grown up in the church, you might know the answers to the Bible questions. You might know the Bible stories. You might be able to shoot your hand up there and give the correct answer every time. People might think, wow, that's really impressive. But if it just disappear and it doesn't actually reflect a changed heart, it doesn't do you any good In fact, it will just be more evidence against you on the day of judgment if you're not trusting in Jesus alone for salvation from your heart. Third, even teaching others or proclaiming God's word to the world does not do you any good unless you've taken it to heart by faith yourself. You can say, oh, I taught Sunday school. Oh, I taught vacation Bible school. I went on a mission trip. I preach from God's Word every Sunday. None of that matters if it's not in the heart. Trusting Jesus alone for salvation. And the fourth is physical baptism. Physical baptism is much like physical circumcision. As an outward sign, it's only beneficial if it points to an inward reality, a spiritual fulfillment. The Jewish people in the Old Testament, they were circumcised in the flesh at eight days old, but then they were told by God, circumcise your hearts. Which means repent from the heart, from the inside. Circumcise your hearts. But then they were told by God's promise, I will circumcise your hearts. Which means I'll take out your heart of stone and I'll give you a heart of flesh. Naturally, we all have a heart that beats to the rhythm of me, myself, and I I want what I want, and I want it now. I'm going to do what I want. Nobody can't tell me what I'm not going to do. That's the natural state of our heart, and God says that's like a rock in the middle of your chest. It might take the place of a heart. It might even look like a heart. You know? You've got these plastic models of hearts. You guys have seen those? Some of them are very detailed and realistic looking. You can ask our medical doctor friends if cut open someone's chest, take out their living, beating heart, replace it with one of those plastic models, how long are they going to live? But there's people who have that kind of spiritual heart. It looks good, fits in with all the others. There's no life If there's no life, it doesn't do you any good. And that's the way baptism is. That's the way circumcision is. It has to point to an internal spiritual fulfillment. We're going to deal with that more when we get to chapter 6, one of the most misunderstood passages in all of Romans. It's coming. But here's the point. Only the gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God for salvation. Because only in the gospel of Jesus Christ, through faith, do we receive the righteousness of God and life through the righteousness of God given in Jesus Christ. Only through Jesus do we have forgiveness and peace and eternal life. And all of these external religious trappings can be dangerous if they convince us that we have the real thing when we actually only have the external signs and names. It is the work of God in the heart. to change us that matters. Nothing else does. But some people would then say, well what's what's the good of even being Religious. The benefit and the blessing of being religious, which is addressed at the beginning of chapter 3, is that you receive the Word of God. And the Word of God, if you believe it, will lead you to life because it'll convict you of your sin. It'll show you your need for Christ. It'll tell you of the Redeemer. It'll point you in the right direction. So there is benefit to that. And you say, well, that's true, there is benefit to it, but there's lots of people. who receive a religious upbringing or who receive the oracles of God, who receive the Word of God, and then they prove unfaithful. I mean Paul's dealing with the Jewish people Of all the Jewish people who received the oracles of God, who received the scriptures, who memorized the scriptures, who sang the Psalms, who worshiped together according to the Word of God. The vast majority of them rejected Jesus when he came onto the scene and didn't believe in him, even though he is the very embodiment of and fulfillment of all of their scriptures. So they're unfaithful. Lots of people who grow up in church. I was reading about this yesterday about the unchurched in America. There's about 40 some percent of the population in America that is completely unchurched. So they don't they don't go to church at all, right? Many of those actually profess to be Christians, but they don't go to church at all. Interestingly, if you were to separate out the the churched and the unchurched in America, um and they were s like separate countries. The churched population would be the seventh largest country in the world and the unchurched population would be the eighth largest country. in the world. It's a lot of people. It's like 150 million people, something like that. I'm pretty good. It's forty-forty-some percent of the population. The vast majority of them grew up in the church. Sixty-five to seventy percent of them grew up in the church. Oh, by the way, the ones who profess to be Christians, and you you all, I promise you that you know somebody in this category. You know someone who professes to be a Christian, but who doesn't go to church at all. Most of the research indicates that those people will come to church if they're invited by someone they know and trust personally. Because they're tired of church. But if they have a friend who is a church-going Christian and they like this person and they trust this person, they'll go to church with them to their church and at least check it out. But anyway, that's an aside. The point the point that none of that was in the notes, that's all bonus. The point that Paul's making, to get back to the text, is Does the unfaithfulness of all of these externally religious people, does that say that God's unfaithful? God didn't keep his promises. No And this is again where baptism comes into view, right? There's a covenant promise made in circumcision, there's a covenant promise made in baptism. If the person then grows up and doesn't follow the Lord, does that mean God broke his promise? No. No, it's not God's faithlessness, it's their faithlessness. Well, then that puts him on this interesting trajectory And you may have gotten to this part and really scratched your head. Do people really think like this? Because he says, what if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means. Let God be true, though everyone a liar. Okay, we can agree with that, right? God is faithful. God kept his promises. God sent his son. God saved his people. The faithlessness of some who had an external religion, but it never took root in their heart. That is not on God. Don't blame God for human sin. But then he says, but wait a minute, if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, in other words, if by contrast my faithlessness shows how faithful God is. You ever read the Old Testament? Actually read the Old Testament? Sean pointed this out to me years ago and it's just struck me whenever I read the Old Testament since. Because some people say, well the Old Testament God, he's mean. He's cruel. He's full of wrath. He has no patience whatsoever. I'm like, have you read the Old Testament? Because it's the people of God in the Old Testament who are stubborn, who are rebellious, who are like they they have examples, they see miracles. They have deliverances and they just turn aside to their idols again and again and again. Let me tell you, the Old Testament God's a whole lot more patient than I would have been with the people of Israel So they're unfaithful, he's faithful. They break their promises, he keeps his promises. They sin, he remains righteous. And that's true in our lives too, right? So then Paul goes on this line of thinking, and wait a minute, so if our unrighteousness, if our unfaithfulness just shows how faithful God is, how righteous God is, then why would he judge us? Because we're just making him look good That's what he says. Is God unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? If our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, he says, by no means. Now, you may think, come on, how does this, we don't see this in the world today, do we? Yeah, we do. And it comes in here by how people have misunderstood Paul's teaching. Verse 7, but if through my lie God's truth abounds to his glory, why am I still being condemned as a sinner? And why not do evil that good may come, as some people slanderously charge us with saying their condemnation is just. There were some people who said, Paul preaches this free grace stuff. We're saved by grace. I mean you hear it from me, right? You're not saved by your own good works. Nothing you do is going to stand up before God on judgment day. You're only saved by the righteousness of Jesus You're only saved by faith in Jesus alone. A conclusion that some people can make from that is, well then I can just sin however I much want to. I can just say, hey, I've got Jesus, I've got his righteousness, he's going to stand for me on Judgment Day. I'm just going to go and send my head off all my life long, and I know I'll be good with God on Judgment Day. Or, as he'll address at the end of chapter 5, beginning of chapter 6, if sin increases and grace abounds all the more, why not just go on sinning so that grace would just keep on abounding? Now, you may not know people who would explicitly say this, but I think it's actually a little bit more prevalent within our evangelical and particular reform circles than you might be aware of. My favorite absurd example of this from history is the Russian monk Rasputin. You guys know the story of Rasputin? He was spiritual advisor to the last of the Romanov dynasty, the last Tsars in Russia. And he had this theology that the more you sin, the more grace you get from God. And he wanted to make sure he could get as much grace from God as possible. So he was a drunkard, he was a womanizer, he was a swindler And he and he didn't he made no apologies for it. He just said, I'm getting more grace from God. Weird dude But you know what? Within some reform circles, there have been some guys in recent years who've kind of gone down that road a little bit to say, well, you know It's not our righteousness that saves us. We don't have any works that are going to stand before God on judgment day. It's only Jesus and Jesus alone. So let's not worry too much about obedience or trying to please God with our lives. None of that stuff works anyway. Just Trust in Jesus and live your life however you want to live it. That's not the gospel Because the internal change of heart is the work of the Holy Spirit. And when we are born again, we are born again to be made more and more like Jesus. We confessed it in our confession of faith earlier. Yes, it's by grace you've been saved through faith. It is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for what? Good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should ignore them. That we should walk in them. We're not saved by good works, but we are saved for good works God's prepared the good works for us and God's prepared us for the good works. We shouldn't trust in them. We shouldn't say, well, you know, I shared the gospel with ten people this week. How many people did you share the gospel with? I'm going to have a better seat in heaven than you I'm going to be in the front row of the choir. Like we shouldn't do that. That's ridiculous. But we should do what God's given us to do. The gospel is a powerful preservation against both self-righteousness and lawlessness. God saves us from both. God saves us from a legalistic self-righteousness that says, I'm going to earn my way to heaven. And He also saves us from a lawlessness that says I'm going to live my own life however I want to live. Both of those things are wrong. God saves us from both. And part of the way he saves us from both is by convicting us of just how sinful we really are Because if we understand just how sinful we really are in and of ourselves, we will not trust in self-righteousness to get us before God, but we also won't trust ourselves to just live life however we please, because we're like, no, no, no Now that God has saved me, I want to follow him. Because he knows this life far better than I do, and he's got a way better plan than I do. So let me get off of my playbook and let me get on his So just how bad off are we? Well, there we come to where Paul brings out the big guns. Verses 10 to 18 is a series of quotes taken from the Psalms and from Isaiah that show just how bad off we really are and just how universal it is. And the main point of this section is that every part of every person is deeply affected by sin. There is no person untouched by sin, and there is no part of any person that's untouched by sin. Does that mean that we are just as evil as we could possibly be? No. God's grace restrains us from being just as evil as we could possibly be. So this section is a great scriptural passage on understanding total depravity. But there is a difference between total depravity and utter depravity. Some people don't think there's a difference, there's a difference. Total depravity means every part of our human being, every part of our human nature is affected by sin, is broken by the fall. Our mind, our heart, our will, our understanding, our desires, our affections, our actions, all of it. Utter depravity means you're as bad as you could possibly be. By the grace of God, no one in the world is really utterly depraved, as bad as they could possibly be. Every once in a while you get examples of people who seem to fit that description. And what we need to say is, there, but for the grace of God go I, because the grace of God restrains all of us. We are totally depraved in of ourselves. Not in Christ, but in of ourselves we are. But we're not utterly depraved. That's an important distinction. So, Paul speaks first of how universal and complete our corruption is in verses ten to twelve. There is no one righteous. None is righteous. No, not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. They have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. The only righteousness that counts is conformity to God's standard. Jesus summarized it for us in the law of love. Love the Lord your God with all of your heart, mind, soul, and strength, and love your neighbor as much as you love yourself. So those two parts, okay? So you get 50 points for perfect love of God, 50 points for perfect love of neighbor, 100 points together, how are we scoring on the exam? You might say, well, I think I'm probably out of 78. Eh, probably, you know, C minus, C's get degrees. Well let me just tell you up front, C's might get degrees, but they don't get you into heaven Because the only standard of righteousness that's going to be accepted into heaven is the perfect righteousness of God, because heaven is a place of perfect righteousness And so only 100% righteousness, only 100% fulfillment of loving God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength, and loving your neighbor as yourself is really going to cut it. But come on now, honestly, do we really think we're C minus students? How often do you love God with all of your heart, mind, soul, and strength? Nothing held back, no reservations, hundred percent love for God. How often do you love your neighbor as yourself? As much as you love yourself, you care about your neighbor as much as you care about your own life. and your own well being. How often? How much? I don't know about you, but I'm like way down in the F minus category. And it's just true. And we have to confess it because it keeps us from that temptation of self-righteousness or that temptation of self-reliance. It's what is in us. It's worthless from God's perspective. We are the rotten fruit. It manifests itself in our words and in our deeds. We see it in our words in verses 13 and 14, and we see it in our deeds in verses 15 to 17. Their throat is an open grave, they use their tongues to deceive, the venom of Ast is under their lips, their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Now you might not think that describes you But God knows you so well. Psalm 139 says, before a word is on my tongue, behold you know it altogether. God knows every word that's ever come out of your mouth, and He knew it before you said it. And those those ones that you caught yourself from saying and you stopped saying it because you didn't want to get in trouble. God heard that one too. He knew what was in your heart. He knew what was in your head. He knew the words that come out out loud and the words that just stay up up here. And and they're bad. I mean, let's not kid ourselves, they're bad. The things that I think sometimes of people who drive on 543 going 35 miles an hour When I'm late to get somewhere. Like what right does this person have to even be alive? Because they're slowing me down. I'm going to be ten minutes late. And it's terrible. I mean it's I'm not boasting about it. It's not it's horrible. And God's been catching me in that and I've been learning to repent because it's a particular struggle of mine. I I don't like being disra derailed from my plan of the day. God's working on on me about that. I'll tell you a story real quick. We had this evangelism training yesterday. This is not me boasting in my sin, it's just being honest. We had this evangelism training yesterday. And I needed to order the booklets from Evangelism Explosion for everybody who was coming to the training. So I'm going through and trying to figure out how many people emailed back and said they were coming and making my list. So I ordered the materials. On Monday. They take two days to get here. I figured order them on Monday. They'll be here on Wednesday. Maybe Thursday if it's late, so we're good. I get an email notification on Thursday your package has been delivered. No, it wasn't. I didn't get a package. So on Friday, you know, I wanted to make sure somebody else didn't bring the package inside and put it somewhere I didn't see it, but it would it wasn't delivered. So on Friday I check in with UPS and it says when it got to Aberdeen, it was sent back to the sender. Because on Google Chrome it had filled in the Forest Hill zip code for the shipping address because that's the zip code that was on the billing address. I had put in 305 Cherokee Place, but I I missed that it had already autofilled the Forest Hill zip code. So when UPS got it in Aberdeen it said 305 Cherokee Place Forest Hill, they were like, there is no such place, send it back to the sender. So I get on the phone with the guys at Evangelism Explosion. I'm like, uh, here's what happened. He's like, I'm going to overnight them to you. Next day air, early delivery. They'll be there by, they say, by 8. 30 in the morning. Okay, thank you so much. I appreciate that. Said I'm sorry, I know it's gonna cost a lot of money. I'll pay the extra shipping. You know, we've got to have these books. They didn't come. I get back from cross-country practice, 11 o'clock, there's no package. So I get on the phone trying to call UPS and I get the computer voice that just has me in an endless feedback loop. I didn't handle it well. I didn't. I was yelling at a computer. Let me talk to a person. See, I need to talk to somebody. I go online, I get up the their chat assistant. Totally unhelpful. I need to talk to a person. I need to talk to a person. And meanwhile, I need to like shower and change and go to the training. Totally just, you know. So I show up and Shibu shows up and I said, Shibu, we don't have any books. And he says, that's okay. The last church I did training for ordered way more than they needed. I have 30 books left over. I have them right here. God had provided for my need before I even knew that I had a need, but I was too flipped out by UPS, which is normally a good company and you know So again, it's like the things that I said and the things that I thought that didn't come out of my mouth, and it was just the computer that I was yelling at, but boy, I wouldn't want that recorded and said, here's your pastor We've got an important church event. So it comes out, and it comes out in our deeds. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their paths. The way of peace they have not known. And why is all of this in our words and our deeds the really the root cause is the last verse quoted here, there is no fear of God before our eyes. You can take 3. 18 and you can connect it back to what Paul said at the beginning of this section, that although what may be known about God is plain to them, for God has shown it to them, Although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him. It is godlessness in the heart that really is the root cause of godlessness in our lives. Now, that is a depiction of who we are in and of ourselves And who we are if we were left to ourselves. I want to say this clearly. If you are in Christ, that is not a depiction of who you are in Christ. If you are a Christian, you have been born again by the Holy Spirit, Christ is in you, and you are in Christ, and you are not totally depraved. Is every part of you still affected by sin? Yes, but Every part of you is also being renewed by the Holy Spirit. You are being made into the image of Christ more and more day by day. But you can't trust in that because you know that left to your own devices This is an accurate picture of who you really are, who I really am. And the end result of this is that on Judgment Day, Every mouth is stopped, and everyone found guilty. Before God's holy law, which is the standard that will be used, and our knowledge of it. Everybody has knowledge of the holy law of God, everybody. And what will be used on Judgment Day is God's holy law and our knowledge of it. And before God's holy law, every mouth is stopped and everyone found guilty. No one will be able to say anything in their defense. All the rationalizations will be shown to be irrational. All of the excuses will be shown to be inexcusable. All of the hiding places will be blown to smithereens. No one will have anything to say. But now that's next week. Because Paul's going to give us the solution. I'll give you a hint. The solution is Jesus. If we want to stand before God on our own, we're going to have no excuse. But if you are in Christ, You are covered in his righteousness, you are cleansed by his blood, you are loved by God, and your place before God is secure. Your sin that you still struggle with is a reminder of how much you need Christ, and it's a reminder of what God will take away completely when you are in glory. But if you're here, if you're here right now and you have not yet trusted in Christ, maybe you're a kid And you're just growing up, you're like, uh, yeah, I know this Christianity stuff. I've heard all my life, but you know I'll worry about that later. I want to live my life first. Or maybe you think, I'm I'm really, you know, am I really that bad? God's word for me, clear. So if you're here today and you have not yet put your faith in Jesus, if you've not yet received the righteousness of God that is a free gift in Jesus Christ, given out of the faithfulness of God to keep his promises and received by faith alone. Call out to him today. Look to him right now in your hearts. Turn to him and say, Lord, I am this sinner, and I need you to save me. Save me through Jesus. I need Jesus. Jesus says that everyone who looks to him, he will raise up in the last day. No one who comes to him will ever be cast out. Everyone, as we'll hear later in Romans, everyone who believes on the name of the Lord will be saved. That's you, if you've not yet called upon him, do it now, before you leave here today. So that you can know that all these things may be true of you. But what is also true is that all of your sin is forgiven and Jesus is your righteousness. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you've given us everything we need in Jesus, your Son, our Savior. He is our peace. He is our righteousness. He is our eternal life. We have no hope apart from him in and of ourselves. This passage describes us too accurately. But in Christ, oh in Christ, we have been made new. I pray that everyone here would know Jesus as their Lord and Savior personally From the heart, trusting in him alone for salvation. And I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.