Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our ninth week, our first day, and we are here in Matthew 17, verses 14 to 27, and then Psalm 41. In Matthew 17, we're asking, is it true that nothing is impossible for those who believe? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Please write it on our hearts today and help us see Jesus that we might walk more faithfully with Him. We pray this in His name and for His glory. Amen. Amen. And when they came to the crowd, a man came up to him and kneeling before him said, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he has seizures and suffers terribly For often he falls into the fire, and often into the water, and I brought him to your disciples, and they could not heal him. And Jesus answered, O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you? How long might it bear with you? Bring them here to me. And Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him, and the boy was healed instantly. Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not cast it out? He said to them, Because of your little faith. For truly I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you. As they were gathering in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day. And they were greatly distressed. When they came to Capernaum, the collectors of the two drachma tax went up to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the tax? He said, Yes. And when he came into the house, Jesus first spoke to him, saying, What do you think, Simon? From whom do kings of the earth take toll or tax? From their sons or from others? And when he said from others, Jesus said to him, Then the sons are free. However, not to give offense to them, go to the sea and cast a hook and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth you will find a shekel Take that and give it to them for me and for yourself. Many of Jesus' teachings have been misunderstood and misapplied over the years, and this is one of them. Is Jesus saying here that with enough faith we can literally do anything? In other words, if we just truly believe and sincerely believe then we can have a million dollars be cured of any illness and have any situation we face work out in our favor. Is that what Jesus is saying? No. To understand what Jesus is saying, we need to understand what the true meaning of faith is and the context in which he said it. True faith is trusting in the promises of God, believing in God's word. In other words, faith is always framed by revelation. It goes as far as God's word and no farther And secondly, the context here is that Jesus had given his disciples power over demons to cast them out. In this context, we can see that they should have trusted and if they truly believed, they would have seen the right result. Neither a biblical understanding of faith nor a clear understanding of the context would lead us to think that we can ask God for things He has not promised and receive them if only we have enough faith. We cannot take isolated verses out of context and claim that they are promises of God for us either. We need to trust in what God has said in the totality of Scripture. We're not to make light of the problems caused by a lack of faith. Too often we do suffer defeat and setbacks in our Christian lives because we lack trust in the Lord and in His Word. He has made great and precious promises to us. And consider, first of all, how often do we struggle with shame and sorrow because we do not trust God's promise of forgiveness? Second, how often do we struggle with insecurity and fear because we do not trust his promises of love and his wise governing of all things? Third, how often do we fail to tithe and give sacrificially because we doubt his promises of provision? Or fourth, how often does the church fail in missions because we doubt the power of the gospel? God's word is true and his promises are sure. We must believe. And if we will, we will see God do great things for his glory. and the cause of the gospel in our lives and in the world. Mountains will move, according to his word, mountains of shame and doubt, fear, and opposition to the gospel, if we believe Let's go to Psalm 41. Psalm 41 written this. Psalm 41 is written to the choir master. It's a Psalm of David. Blessed is the one who considers the poor. In the day of trouble, the Lord delivers him. The Lord protects him and keeps him alive. He is called blessed in the land. You do not give him up to the will of his enemies. The Lord sustains him on his sick bed. In his illness, you restore him to full health. As for me, I said, O Lord, be gracious to me, heal me, for I have sinned against you. My enemies say of me in malice, When will he die and his name perish? And when one comes to see me, he utters empty words while his heart gathers iniquity. While he goes out, he tells it abroad. All who hate me whisper together about me. They imagine the worst for me. They say a deadly thing is poured out on him. He will not rise again from where he lies. Even my close friend, in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me. But you, O Lord, be gracious to me. and raise me up that I may repay him. By this I know that you delight in me. My enemy will not shout in triumph over me. But you have upheld me because of my integrity and set me in your presence forever. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and amen. The end of the first book of the book of Psalms. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we know that ultimately Psalm 41 is a portrait of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. You have raised him from the dead. You have given him triumph over all of his and our enemies. Those who sought to destroy him. were themselves put to shame and faced destruction. The enemy of our souls, who sought to do away with the Son of God, was himself defeated at the cross. And we know that in Jesus, if we believe, we have the victory of Christ over sin and death and hell forever. And that is great and glorious indeed. So we thank you. We pray that we would trust you. That you would deepen our faith in you, that you would strengthen our discipleship, our following after you, that we might stand on the rock solid promise of your word and not live in shame or fear. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope that you have a blessed day. In the Lord.