Good morning and welcome to our Advent Devotionals for 2025. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Over the next few weeks, as we get ready for Christmas, we're going to be going through some great Christmas carols and and uh Advent and Christmas songs of faith, looking at the scripture behind them, looking at the history behind them, and preparing our hearts to truly worship and welcome Jesus freshly this Advent and Christmas season. Today we're beginning with a week of uh words from the prophets, words of longing. And true Advent carols. There's a distinction between Advent and Christmas that's kind of lost in our modern culture. But technically, from the first Sunday after Thanksgiving until Christmas Eve is Advent. That is the time of the coming, waiting. It's a longing time, an expectation time. And then Christmas Eve begins, Christmas, which the first full day of Christmas is of course December twenty-fifth, and then there's twelve days of Christmas that go up until January sixth. In our culture We don't pay attention to those things and we've lost the distinction. But in a little way, here in our devotionals, we are going to be focusing on Advent proper in this first week. uh time of longing, of yearning, expectation before we move to a more celebratory tone in the coming week. So today what's on tap for us is Okam Okam Emanuel, which is Probably my favorite Advent Carol. It's really close between this one, O Come O come Emmanuel, and Come Thou Long Expected Jesus. But let's pray and we'll ask the Lord's help as we dig into His Word and His music that He's gifted us with. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for this season, for this Advent season. When we get to realize what the world was like before Jesus came and what Jesus brought into the world and we can look again at what our lives would be without Christ and have that longing, that expectation uh that wonder of what Jesus brings to us. So we pray that you would speak to us through your word, by your Spirit today, and prepare our hearts to worship you and to enjoy you more deeply. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, our scripture passages for today come from the book of Isaiah and then the Gospel of Matthew. Isaiah writing about seven hundred and fifty years before Jesus was born gave this prophecy. Isaiah seven fourteen. Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Now in this time, this is about 800 years before Christ, and the Assyrian Empire was putting pressure on the little kingdom of Judah, that southern portion of when Israel split. The northern kingdom, the larger and more powerful kingdom of Israel, had already been conquered by uh Assyria, and now they're putting pressure on this southern kingdom. And The people are scared, and the king wants to know are we gonna be okay? And Through Isaiah, God gives this sign. It may have had an immediate fulfillment. There may have been a a young girl, perhaps Even uh Isaiah's young bride who was going to conceive and give birth to a child and be named Emmanuel, but ultimately the fulfillment doesn't happen within Isaiah's lifetime. It is only fulfilled when Jesus comes. Then in Isaiah 11. 1, we get a further prophecy that indicates that the fulfillment of the hopes of God's people would not be within their lifetimes. Because in Isaiah 11. 1 we read There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. That means that the tree of Jesse, the Davidic dynasty, David's kingship, will be cut down, chopped down to the ground, and felled. We know that happened when the Babylonians took uh Judah and Jerusalem into exile and ended the Davidic kingship. That wasn't until long after Isaiah's lifetime But he saw it coming. Not only did he see that coming, but he saw that from the stump of Jesse, even from the roots of Jesse. there would come forth a shoot that would bear fruit, and that is Jesus, because while Jesus is humanly speaking a descendant of David, His origins actually predate the Davidic dynasty because he is from everlasting, he's from eternity, he's the Son of God, and so he comes forth from the roots of Jesse and he bears fruit. All of this comes to fulfillment in Matthew chapter 1, when we see a son of David, Joseph, who receives this word from the Lord. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold An angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you will call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet, behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. Emmanuel. How do we know that God is for us? Ultimately we know that God is for us because God came from heaven to earth. to be God with us. You know, if you're involved in a fight, in a struggle, in an intense conflict, you somebody could be standing on the sidelines and saying, I'm for you, I'm for you, like a fan cheering, right? But you really know if someone is for you in the fight and the struggle is if they enter in and they are with you in the fight and in the struggle. And that's what Jesus is. Jesus is God with us. God who took on flesh and blood stepped onto the stage of the conflict between Satan and God's people, and he entered into battle for us as Emmanuel, as God with us. And this Advent Carol, Ocum Ocum Emanuel, draws upon these texts and upon many others to celebrate to rejoice, to worship with a sense of longing, even desperation, for the coming of Emmanuel into the world. This hymn, Ocum Ocum Emanuel, is very old. It goes back to the Middle Ages. And in fact, it's based upon the 7-O antiphons. of Advent. What are the seven O antiphons? These are things that would be sung on seven days leading up to Christmas Eve during Advent. So it would begin on December 17th and it would go up until December 23rd. 24th, of course, would be Christmas Eve. So this is the longing. And it's longing for Emmanuel, but here we have in each verse of W'come Wakam Emmanuel and in each verse of these antiphons that were sung one per day. titles of Christ that show us what he comes to do and comes to be for us. So the first one, O wisdom of our God most high, guiding creation with power and love. Come to teach us the path of knowledge. The second one, O leader of the house of Israel, giver of the law to Moses on Sinai, come to rescue us with your mighty power. Third day, O root of Jesse's stem, sign of God's love for all his people, come to save us without delay. December 20th, O Key of David, opening the gates of God's eternal kingdom, come and free the prisoners of darkness. The 21st, O radiant dawn, splendor of eternal light, sun of justice, come and shine on those who dwell in darkness and in the shadow of death December 22nd, O King of all nations and keystone of the church, come and save man whom you have formed from the dust. And the final one, December 23rd, O Emmanuel, our King and Giver of Law, come to save us. Lord our God. So you see, what we see here is what we need Jesus to bring and what he brings. We need wisdom. He is the wisdom of God. We need a leader. He is the leader of the house of Israel. We need the promises kept, the deep root of the stem of Jesse. The very taproot of the promises of God comes in human flesh in Jesus Christ. The key of David to open the gates to God's eternal kingdom, the radiant dawn, the great morning star who brings the light of God to shine in the darkness, the King of the Nations, the Keystone of the Church, who comes to save people from every nation. O Emmanuel, our King, our Giver of Law, come to save us. Lord and our God. This is a great follow-up actually on yesterday's sermon that we had from Hebrews 1, where we see that who Christ is It's not just trivial information. It's not just how many titles of Christ can you name, but it's how Jesus comes to us, how Jesus rescues us. How Jesus gives us the kingdom and gives us the promises and secures our salvation. He comes to us as Emmanuel, God with us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for sending your Son, your one and only Son. Lord Jesus, thank you for coming into this world, taking on a full human nature, just like we have. And being our Savior, being our Redeemer, O Holy Spirit, draw our hearts to Christ, that we might worship Him, that we might treasure the wisdom, the power, the light. The freedom, the victory that comes only through Emmanuel. We long to see you come again, Lord Jesus. We long to see you bring us into our final eternal home. And so even as we look back on your first Advent and we sing, O come, O come Emmanuel, we sing it looking ahead to your second Advent and we say, come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen. Amen. And we trust in our way to go. And I trust you like anything. And cause the last Oh, so I remember it All committees are your relationships for me.