Good morning, good morning. We come now to the end of our third week of Advent Devotionals. O Holy Night is on tap for us this morning in our continuing series of scripture and carols. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you that we can spend this time. Studying your word, thinking about the gift of your son, rejoicing in the good news of Christmas, and also rejoicing in the wonderful gift of these carols that we can sing together each Christmas season. We pray that you would help us to understand your word and your message for us to sing and worship and proclaim. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, O Holy Night is on tap for today, and it is a French carol. Originally the words were written by Placide Chapeau in eighteen forty three, and then a tune was written by Adolf Adam, who was actually Jewish, in eighteen forty seven. It was then translated into English by John Sullivan Dwight in eighteen fifty five, and this The lyrics recall to us particularly a message of freedom that Jesus brings, freedom for the enslaved and the oppressed, and freedom, liberation for those who are in bondage and in captivity. This is a large part of what Christ comes to do, right? To set us free from our bondage to fear of death, which is actually going to be the sermon focus from Hebrews 2 this coming Sunday at 4th Hill, how we're held in in bondage. in slavery to the fear of death, and Jesus sets us free from that bondage. Here's what Jesus said in Luke chapter 4, verses 18 to 19. The spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor, he sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives. and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. This is Luke 4. This is in the synagogue at Nazareth, which is Jesus' hometown. And he's reading from Isaiah, Isaiah 61, as we have it, but toward the end of the scroll of Isaiah, he reads this prophecy, which is about him. Jesus has already been baptized publicly. The Spirit of the Lord has descended upon him in the form of a dove publicly, and he's been anointed. Anointed is Messiah. God has messiahed him. He's made him the Messiah. Why? Well, with this purpose. Proclaim good news to the poor Proclaim liberty to the captives, the recovering of sight to the blind, liberty to those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. Jesus comes to bring freedom, to bring deliverance. From bondage and oppression. And that's what he proclaimed at the beginning of his ministry in Luke 4. Romans 8, 20 to 21. It's a wonderful gospel chapter, probably my favorite chapter in all of Scripture is Romans 8. And it tells us that the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children. of God. When is that coming? Ultimately that's coming when Jesus comes again. But it's his first coming into the world that that secures this freedom. Jesus' first coming into the world, his dealing with sin and with Satan breaking his kingdom, his his His stranglehold over over the people of earth and bringing the gospel to light, the gospel of freedom from sin and death and and condemnation and oppression from from fear. and slavery to sin. All of this is broken in his first coming, but it will come into fullness of reality when he comes again. That's why every year at Advent, as we remember his first coming We also long for his second coming. And this is the message, the message of freedom and deliverance. Well, originally In French, the title was not O Holy Night, but the title was Midnight Christians or Minuet Christian. And so you see it in French there, right? Minuet chrétien, c'est leurs nains and etcetera. And I'll give you the English because We're not a French language program, are we? Midnight Christians is the solemn hour when God as man descended unto us to erase the original stain and to end the wrath of his father. The whole world thrills with hope on this night that gives it a Saviour. Kneel, people, await your deliverance. Christmas. Christmas. The Redeemer is here. Now you notice it's the French Noel that is translated as Christmas. Well, when we did the first Noel, We said that it really means a birth announcement, but this is this is the French word for Christmas. The French word for Christmas is really focused on the birth of Jesus very distinctly. And Vasi La Vedanta. Behold, look, here, here, your Redeemer. Right here. Right, not over there, but right here. Your Redeemer It's a wonderful poem in French. I'm going to give you the rest of it, the original poem, uh, English translation, not the French poem. I'm going to give you the English translation. May the Ardent Light of Our Faith Guide us all to the cradle of the infant. As of old a shining star led the chiefs from the Orient there. The King of Kings is born in a humble manger. O mighty ones of today, proud of your greatness, it is to your pride that he preaches Bow your heads before the Redeemer. The Redeemer has broken every fetter. The earth is free and heaven is open. He sees a brother, where there once was only a slave. Love unites those whom iron had chained. Who will tell him of our gratitude? It is for all of us that he is born. He suffers and dies On your feet, people, sing of your deliverance. Christmas, Christmas, sing of the Redeemer. Now, if we think about the original um I'm sorry, I lost my lost a slide that I had in here. Um originally this uh poem was written in French. It was translated in English by John Sullivan Dwight in eighteen fifty-five, and it became an immediate favorite of northern abolitionists because of that third verse that talks about breaking the chains and the slave is our brother. Um and so in the 1850s and 60s As abolitionism was very hot in the North and as the Civil War broke out, this became an anthem of abolitionism. to free slaves, right, in the north. And then it endured in popularity for years afterwards. And actually a fun little fact is that in nineteen oh six The very first song ever broadcast on the radio was this Him, this carol, oh holy night, very first song ever broadcast on radio. So what's interesting, I think, to think about that this time of year Of course, all the all the music stations on the radio start playing Christmas music, and Christmas music becomes very popular. By the way, Christmas music is more popular this year than it ever has been. On the Spotify charts of the top fifty songs in America right now, like thirty-five of the fifty most popular songs in America are are Christmas songs, including I think all the top ten are all Christmas songs. right now. So Christmas music is more popular than ever, seemingly. And radio, music on the radio began with a Christmas carol, Oh Holy Night, in 1901 Well here's the words in English. O Holy Night, the stars are brightly shining. It is the night of the dear Savior's birth. Long lay the world in sin and error pining. Till he appeared, and the soul felt its worth, a thrill of hope. The weary world rejoices, for yonder breaks a new and glorious morn Fall on your knees. O hear the angel voices, O night divine, O night when Christ was born, O night divine, O night, O night divine. Led by the light of faith serenely beaming, with glowing hearts by his cradle we stand, so led by light of a star sweetly gleaming, there came the wise men from Orient land The King of Kings lays us in lowly manger in all our trials born to be our friend. He knows our need to our weakness is no stranger. This is going to be part of our sermon on Sunday as well. Behold your king before him lowly bend. Behold your king before him lowly bend. And then the final verse Truly he taught us to love one another, his law is love, and his gospel is peace. Chains shall he break, for the slave is our brother, and in his name all oppression shall cease. Sweet hymns of joy, in grateful chorus raise we let all within us praise his holy name. Christ is the Lord. O praise his name for ever, his power and glory evermore proclaim. His power and glory evermore proclaim. Let's pray. That's the only freedom, Lord, that comes is because Christ is the Lord. And we must proclaim his power and glory. We must celebrate and worship and receive the one who is born, King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and in him and in him alone we find Freedom, as Galatians 5 says, it is for freedom that Christ has set you free. So Father, may we live in the freedom. That Christ has brought, and may we be those who love seeing others set free by the love of Christ and the power of Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for another one of these Advent devotionals. Let's listen together now to O Holy Night. And I just want to do it. The stars are bright, they shining. It is sunny our de says burn. Till he appears in a soul fell to For three laugh to we work rejoices for your neighborings and knew. The angel bib. And his gospel. Change shall be great for the same in trouble in his name. The pressure cross baby. Prince of Paika Everland are king. Our king here will not come, bring the king, my car, the land. I don't think it's just actually.