Good morning and welcome to our 2025 Advent Devotional Series on Scripture and Carols. Today we're going to be taking a look at O Little Town of Bethlehem. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemel. From Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, so glad you could join us here on our fourth day of these Advent Devotionals. We're looking forward to the coming of Christ as we look at the Back on his first coming and and put ourselves in that mindset of what it was like to be look yearning for and longing for his first coming We're also thinking about the fact that we are right now, should uh should be at least in a mindset of yearning and longing for his second coming. because his first Advent uh promises and prefigures his second Advent as he's going to come to judge. I also want Christ to come into our hearts and minds and lives by his Holy Spirit more and more in this Advent series. So let's Pray and ask him to do that as we meet together this morning. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, into the world. Lord Jesus, thank you for coming from heaven to earth to rescue us. We pray, Holy Spirit, that you would bring Christ close to our hearts and that you would lift up our hearts to Him in love and faith and hope. Meet with us and speak to us through your word, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Oh, Little Town of Bethlehem is a carol that was written by Phillips Brooks, who was a famous pastor from Philadelphia, right at the end of the Civil War. Um kind of in two stages, 1865 and 1868. We'll talk about that in a few minutes. But it is based upon this prophecy from Micah chapter 5, verses 2 to 5. But you, O Bethlehem Ephratha, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me, one who is to be ruler of in Israel whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel, and he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord and in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. Micah chapter 5, verses 2 to 5. What a remarkably precise and profound prophecy. Micah was a contemporary of the prophet Isaiah, so he's prophesying more than 700 years. before the birth of Jesus. And he's telling us the very town where Jesus would be born. Now this is not an unknown town, because it's the same town that David, the son of Jesse who was king over Israel, he had been born in this town, but it remained a small town. In fact, when the territory of Judah Is mapped out in Joshua and then talked about again in Judges and some of the census uh passages. Bethlehem Ephratha is not mentioned. in in Joshua when the partition of the land because it's it's too little to be even named as a specific prominent city within the clans of Judah. So In all the census lists and all the city lists that we have in the Old Testament and in ancient records, Bethlehem is really just a small town that gets overlooked. But it is the birthplace of King David, and David is the one who was given the promise that someone from his line would be ruler over God's people forever. Now that promise had been given 300 years before Micah's prophecy. So Micah's in this place where he's 300 years after the promise has been given to David, but he's 700 years before that promise is ultimately fulfilled in Jesus. And so what he adds to that promise is this specificity that not only will the promised coming king be a descendant of David but will also be born in and come out of the very same small town as David, Bethlehem, Ephraim. So this is God giving us very specific information. Not only what lineage, but also what location we can look for to find the promised king. But also, we're given more than that. the origins of this king. He may be the son of David by his human ancestry, but his coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. Even you could interpret that uh translate that Hebrew expression as from everlasting, as some translations do. In other words, he has deep roots. The prophet Isaiah and the prophet Zechariah both speak of a shoot coming from the stump of Jesse. In other words, in the roots. That that which predates, right? Comes up a fresh shoot from the cut down stump, and this is in keeping with that. So this one comes who is a descendant of David, but actually his coming forth is from of old, from ancient times. And then verse 3 talks about God giving up his people, giving them up to captivity, giving them up to being ruled over by others. And pretty much for From the time when Jerusalem fell in 586 until Jesus is born, almost 600 years, there's only a brief period of time in the time of the Maccabean Revolt. when Jerusalem and Judah are not under foreign oppression. They're under the Babylonians, and then they're under the uh Persians, and then they're under the Greeks, and then they're under the descendants of the Greek Empire and then they're under the Romans. Only for a brief period of time when they break free from the from the descendants of the Greeks, the Ptolemaics, uh and they and they come into their own for a a little while, but then they come under Roman oppression. So God gives his people up to foreign oppression until The time when she who is in labor has given birth. This is Mary, right? The the the mother of Jesus until she is in and then There comes one who's going to bring back the people of Israel. He's going to stand and shepherd the flock in the strength of the Lord. There's an expression that's powerful. Jesus stands and shepherds his flock in the strength of the Lord. When Jesus said in John 10, I am the good shepherd. Everybody knew Psalm 23 that the Lord is the Good Shepherd of Israel, the Good Shepherd of God's people. If he says, I am the good shepherd, he is shepherding the flock of God in the strength of the Lord because he is the Lord. in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. He comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And what does he give us when he comes? He gives us security. He gives us a kingdom that extends to the ends of the earth, and he gives us his peace. All of this in this wonderful prophecy from Micah that was then fulfilled in Jesus being born in Luke chapter 2 in the city of Bethlehem. Well, what about this Christmas Carol? Well, it was written by Phillips Brooks, who was the rector of Holy Trinity Church in Philadelphia, a very prominent church. He takes a sabbatical after the Civil War. The Civil War ends in April of 1865, and it's been very trying, very difficult. And so uh Pastor Brooks takes a sabbatical, and on the sabbatical he goes to a trip, on a trip to the Holy Land in late 1865, and actually spends Christmas Eve of 1865 in Bethlehem. And he's on a he's on a horseback ride, really looking out over Jr uh Bethlehem and the Church of the Holy Nativity and and that and he and he writes to his Sunday school students back home about how quiet and how beautiful the town was on that night. This the sort of beginnings of the poem that's going to form this carol Later, about three years later, he he writes a more polished poem version of what he had begun to write that night, and he shares it with his Sunday school students. And then he asks the church organist Louis Redner to compose music for these words. And here are the words that he wrote, O little town of Bethlehem, how still we see thee lie! Above thy deep and dreamless sleep, the silent stars go by. Yet in thy dark streets shineth the everlasting light Right, the one whose coming forth is from ancient times, even everlasting, the everlasting light. The hopes and fears of all the years are met in thee tonight. For Christ is born of Mary and gathered all above, while mortals sleep, the angels keep their watch of wandering love, O morning stars together. proclaim the holy birth and praises sing to God the King and peace to men on earth. He's talking about the angels here. That's the morning stars or the angels. who proclaim the birth of Christ on that first Christmas night. That's what angels do. They proclaim and they worship the coming king. How silently, how silently the wondrous gift is given. So God imparts to human hearts the blessings of his heaven. No ear may hear his coming, but in this world of sin, where meek souls will receive him still, the dear Christ enters in. O holy child of Bethlehem, descend to us, we pray. Cast out our sin and enter in. Be born in us today. We hear the Christmas angels, the great glad tidings tell. Oh, come to us, abide with us, our Lord. Emmanuel. And I love how this carol ends with that wonderful title of Christ from Isaiah. He's Emmanuel. He's God with us. And we want him to abide with us, to rule in our hearts. To be born again by faith, as it were, received anew in our hearts as we join the Christmas angels in telling the great glad tidings of the birth of our Savior. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, what a precious gift you gave when you sent your only begotten Son into the world on that very first Christmas 2,000 years ago Lord Jesus, you left behind the glories of heaven. You came into a world that did not expect you, that wasn't looking for you, that wasn't desiring you, and yet you came to bring us what we most deeply need. Peace from God. Life from you. So come to our hearts, Lord Jesus. Be born again in us afresh, that we might receive by faith, that we might live. New lives as those who are who are recreated as we receive and believe and repent and turn and rejoice in you. Thank you, Lord Jesus, we pray Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me. Now let's listen together to a wonderful rendition of a little town of Bethlehem. O little town of Everland, how still we see thee glide above thy deep and dream. The silent stars go by, yet in thy dark street shines the everlasting light. The hopes and fears of all the years are met indeed tonight. For Christ is born a memory and gathered all the both while mortals meet the angels keep their way. What a wandering love oh morning stars together proclaim the holy birth and praise this thing King to God the king and peace to man on earth. How silently, how silently. The wondrous gift is given. God imparts to human hearts the blessings of his men. But in this world of sin, where me snows will receive him still, the dear Christ answers. Oh, holy child of band is things to us. Cast out our sin and into it, be born in us today. We hear the Christmas day. Angels, though great, glad tidings tell Oh come to us abide with us, our Lord Health. Come to us to find with Christ alone.