Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and we are today looking at the little book of Obadiah. Pray. Heavenly Father, gracious King, our Lord and our God, there is no one like you in heaven or on earth. You are the beginning and the end, the Alpha, the Omega. The creator, the sustainer, and the judge of all. And we are your people. We're called by your grace to belong to you. Speak to us today through Obadiah. Help us to receive understanding Sam, believe the message of this minor prophet and help us to follow Jesus, our King. We pray this in his name. Amen. Alright. Obadiah. Thus says the Lord, sorry, the vision of Obadiah. Sorry at the beginning. The vision of Obadiah Thus says the Lord concerning Edom, we have heard a report from the Lord, and a messenger has been sent among us Among the nations. Rise up. Let us rise against her for battle. Behold, I will make you small among the nations. You shall be utterly despised. The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who live in the clefts of the rock, in your lofty dwelling, who say in your heart, Who will bring me down to the ground? Though you soar aloft like the eagle, though your nest is set among the stars, from there I will bring you down declares the Lord. If thieves came to you, if plunderers came by night, how you have been destroyed, would they not steal only enough for themselves Elves? If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings? How Esau has been pillaged, his treasures sought out All your allies have driven you to your border. Those at peace with you have deceived you. They have prevailed against you. Those who eat your bread have set a trap beneath you. You have no understanding. Will I not, on that day, declares the Lord, destroy the wise men out of Edom and understanding out of Mount Esau, and your mighty men shall be dismayed, O Temon, so that every man from Mount Esau will be cut off by slaughter. Because of the violence done to your brother Jacob, shame shall cover you, and you shall be cut off forever On the day that you stood aloof, on the day that strangers carried off his wealth and foreigners entered his gates. and cast lots for Jerusalem. You were like one of them, but do not gloat over the day of your brother in the day of his Misfortune. Do not rejoice over the people of Judah in the day of their ruin. Do not boast in the day of distress. Do not enter the gate of my people in the day of their calamity. Do not gloat over his disaster. In the day of his calamity. Do not loot his wealth in the day of his calamity. Do not stand at the crossroads to cut off his fugitive Do not hand over his survivors in the day of distress. For the day of the Lord is near. Upon all the nations. As you have done, it shall be done to you. Your deeds shall return on your own hand But in Mount Zion, there shall be those who escape, and it shall be holy. And the house of Jacob shall possess their own possessions. The house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame possess Mount Esau. And those of the Shephala shall possess the land of the Philistines. They shall possess the land of Ephraim and the land of Samaria, and Benjamin shall possess Gilead the exiles of this host of the people of Israel shall possess the land of the Canaanites as far as Zarephath. The exiles of Jerusalem who are in Sephirid shall possess the cities of the Negev. Saviors shall go up to Mount Zion to rule Mount Esau, and the The kingdom shall be the Lord's. So Obadiah, a minor prophet He is uh he's prophesying against Edom because Edom has rejoiced in the day of the destruction of Jerusalem. and Judah. So it seems that this is probably during the time of the Babylonian captivity. So in the 580s, 570s, it seems. We don't know exactly for sure when this uh minor prophet prophesied, but the things he's addressing are the actions of Edom. In the day of the destruction of Jerusalem. It is possible that, like the chapters in Isaiah that we're doing right now on Sunday mornings in the in the forties and fifties, which talk about the exile into Babylon and then the return from Babylon, but they were actually given through the prophet Isaiah over a hundred Years before the exile of Babylon even took place. It's possible that Obadiah could be looking at all these things as something still in the future. So he could be even a contemporary of Isaiah. That doesn't seem likely because there's nothing in here that says that Obadiah He's talking about things as though they've already happened. He's judging Edom because Edom did, in fact, gloat and take advantage of the day of the destruction of Jerusalem. So it it seems likely that this would have to be after five eighty six. But then in the five fifties BC, the Babylonians had a campaign against Against Edom, and Edom was wiped out, which was something that even Isaiah prophesied centuries ago. So the best date probably for Obadiah is between five eighty-six and say five fifty-five BC. But what the the point of this is, even if we don't know the exact date because we don't have any circumstances like i very, very short book. We don't know anything about Obadiah, we don't know who his parents were We don't know where he lived. We don't know the kings who reigned when he prophesied. It may be that no kings reigned when he prophesied, which is why he doesn't say the oracles that came during the reign of this king and that king, because if it happened after the Babylonian exile, there were no kings Ruling. But what's important here is the message. This is the Word of God. Even though most Christians probably never read this book, couldn't tell The first thing about this book, it has a very direct and very clear and very important message. And that is that Edom has Exalted herself, has boasted, and has taken advantage of the destruction of God's people under the judgment of God, and as a result, they themselves are going to be This is one of the consistent themes that we find throughout Scripture that those who make themselves enemies of God's people, those who forget basic human kindness. Brotherly affection. Remember that Edom, descendants of Esau, right, brother of um of Jacob. So Jacob and Esau Twins, the children of Isaac and Rebekah. So Esau should have had compassion on Jacob and the children of Jacob. They're cousins, right? They're kin. But there's no familial affection. It is a pride issue. The pride of your heart has deceived you. It's an exploitation and greed issue, taking advantage of the day of disaster. And as a result, God is going to judge. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, whoever humbles himself will be exalted, and the enemies of God's people, God will avenge himself on them. These are major themes in Scripture that are the centerpiece of what's happening here in Obadiah. So I think Obadiah is a very powerful minor prophet. Because we live in a world where sometimes the world is viciously mean and unfair in its attacks on God's people and sometimes uh like Christians aren't even afforded the basic human decency that you would give to an Another human being of like freedom of speech and expression and decent respect. They're just in many parts of the world it's illegal to be a Christian. Christians are the most persecuted Religious group in the world today. To be fair, Muslims are also heavily persecuted in parts of the world, mostly in India, but in some other parts of the world as well. And so Christians are badmouthed and persecuted. And in many countries, think places like India, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, the Middle East, Egypt, um, Arabic North Africa, where Christians are a minority, they are a persecuted minority. They are They are an oppressed minority. And in a really genuinely not in the sense of, oh, people said not nice things about me on social media, therefore I'm being persecuted. Like we Americans have thin skin. And are easily offended and easily uh play the victim card that we will then turn around and get upset with other people for playing the victim card. We started there. I'm talking about real persecution. Actual like your home's taken away, your church is burned down, your possessions are put into a pile and burned. We I work with some guys. In Africa who have had their libraries of books gathered out of their home and made into a pile and burned, whose who whose homes were burned. In some cases their homes were burned while they We're inside it, and they got out alive, thankfully. And so this is like real persecution. And so the message of Obadiah is that God is watching. And that God will make everything right in the end. So E Esau, Edom, is going to be temporally within history judged by being ransacked by Babylon, and there will come a time when the possessions of Esau will be occupied By people from Judah. But the larger message is that the day of the Lord is coming. And that the day of the Lord is near upon all the nations. So Jesus is coming again. The day of judgment is coming. And when Jesus comes again, and the day of Judgment comes, God will execute vengeance on all of those who have harassed, persecuted, oppressed, and Victimized his people for the sake of them being his people. Now there's no promise that if you're a Christian and you break the law and you get in trouble for that, that there's special Special vindication. No. But there is promises in Second Thessalonians, in First Peter, in Revelation. There are special promises that on the day of the Lord, on the day of judgment. God will pour out his wrath in a special measure on those who have violently persecuted the people of God. So people in his Like Mao Zedong, who in the Cultural Revolution uh killed nearly half the Christians in China and took the other half and made them work in labor camp. camps and took away all the Bibles and burned them. Like the ruling Kim family in North Korea where Christians are imprisoned and persecuted and Bibles are illegal to own and if you're caught with a Bible you could spend the rest of the And The kingdom of God will last forever. In the end, when this history of this world comes to an end And the new heavens and the new earth are brought in forever, the kingdom of God will stand forever. The kingdom shall be The meek, as Jesus said, shall inherit the earth. With Christ. All things are yours in Christ, who is the heir of all things. So what should this do for us as believers? Well, it should not make us proud. One of the wrong ways that we can respond to this is to hear a message that, hey, Jesus is coming again and he's going to punish all of our enemies and he's going to make things right and we're going to inherit the kingdom of God. the new heavens and the new earth forever, we can hear that message and we get puffed up with pride. And we can be obnoxious and offensive and rude. No. That is a direct violation of the clear commands of God. Do not repay anyone evil for evil, but over The Bible has repeat Repeat, replete commands to not do that. Do not be proud, arrogant, haughty, self-righteous, condescending, rude, any of that But be quietly confident in trusting the Lord when people are rude and dismissive and Hostile to Christianity, speak the truth in love, pray for them, and then leave it in the hands of God We do not need to take things into our own hands and make them right. Make people understand. No, we don't. We can't. It's not our job. We serve a king who in the end will stand upon Mount Zion. Lion, ruling over all the nations of the world, who will judge the living and the dead, and whose kingdom will know no end. That should give us a quiet confidence And an unshakable hope, no matter what we face in this life. Let's pray. Father God, thank you. Thank you for your love. Thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you for the gift. Of life that we have in your Son Jesus Christ. Thank you that He is King over all the kings and Lord over all the Lords, and that He will judge when He returns. May we stand in him and stand for him forever. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for Obadiah. And we will continue tomorrow. We're done with the book of Obadiah. We're just going to move on. And I hope you can join me tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.