Good morning and welcome to our Advent Devotional Series for 2025 Scripture and Carols. This is our second week, our first day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church So glad you could join us for this today. As we begin the second week, we come to the oldest carol that we're going to be doing together, the oldest Christmas carol that we sing within the church. It goes back to the early 400s, originally written in Latin over 1600 years ago. It is of the Father's love begotten. And we'll be taking a look at John chapter 1 verses one to fourteen as a background for understanding this very important, very much loved, and very long standing Carol in the life of the church. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig in together. Heavenly Father We thank you for the gift of your Son, Jesus Christ, our Savior. And we thank you for the gift of music that you have given to your church. Throughout the centuries you have inspired composers, moving them by the truth of what Scripture has. While these carols are not scripture, they're not breathed out by you, they are given to your church as a gift and a blessing for us to be able to celebrate Christ and to remember. uh the rich doctrinal truth of our faith and the beauty of the incarnation and our redeemer. So we pray that you would bless us. As we dig into John chapter 1 and into this wonderful old carol together, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Of the Father's love begotten, it was written by Aurelius Clemens Prudentius in In the early 400s, he lived from 348 to 413, but it was the last ten years of his life from 403 to 413 that he would have written this particular carol. The background for it, we can look to the prologue to John's Gospel because what Aurelius uh Prudentius was doing was really affirming the deity of Christ against those false teachers in the church who were teaching that Christ was the first creation of God, was a creature. like the Archangel Michael, kind of like Jehovah's Witnesses teach today. And so much of what's behind this carol is to teach the full deity of Christ and the beauty of the Trinity. And we see that here in John chapter 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness, to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light. But he came to bear witness about the light. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him but to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. So John, in this wonderful, beautiful prologue, he calls our mind back to the very opening of Scripture, to the book of Genesis, which had been written by Moses. some 1500 years before John. And of course Moses began with in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. But here we see there's more to God. Because how did God create the heavens and the earth in Genesis 1? By speaking his word. God said, let there be light, and there was light. God said Let the you know let there be an expanse between the waters above and waters below. There was an expanse called the sky, etc. So God speaks forth his creation. So John says, you know that word? The word of God that framed the worlds, that word, well, he was in the beginning with God, and he was God And, what's more than that, verse 14, he is the one who became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. So the Word of God is the Son from the Father. This is teaching us that Jesus is true God who became true man, and that he's with God as the Son from the Father So we have Father and Son, both fully God, equally God. How is that possible? There's only one God, but that God exists eternally as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit And the Holy Spirit is the way that we come to know God. And Jesus is the revelation of God and the Word of God. And He's the one who came flesh to save us. He's the light that shines in the darkness, and the darkness cannot overcome the light of Christ. Again, this this language is so intentionally Echoing back to Genesis 1. You have God, you have the word spoken, you have light shining in the darkness, that's Jesus. John, the gospel writer here is clarifying about another John, known as John the Baptist. Or John the Baptizer. And he was a man who was sent from God, but he was not the light See, early church, some people were confused and thought, well, maybe Jesus was just another John the Baptizer. No, John the Baptizer comes as a witness, but he himself is not the light. Jesus is the true light the true light that comes into the world. And he's in the world, but he's rejected by the world, even though the world was made through him. The very one who made the world, made his own people, was rejected by the world and rejected by his own people. But those who don't reject him. Those who receive him, those who believe in his name, to them there is a right to become children of God. How? Not according to human flesh, not according to human will, but because of God's will. And that's the glory of the gospel. The glory of the gospel is that God became man, the Son of God became man, so that men may become sons of God by believing in the one who came to save us. This was something that was misunderstood in the early church days. In the first century, when John's writing his gospel, people are thinking maybe Jesus is just another John. In the fourth and fifth centuries, when Aurelius Clemens Prudentius is living, people are thinking maybe Jesus is the highest creation of God, like the first archangel of God. And he wants to clarify that and get the gospel right. Because if you don't get who Jesus is, you can't get the gospel right and you can't have salvation. This is really, really important doctrinal truth. So what do we know about Aurelius Clemens Prudentius? Well, he was born in Spain in about 348 A. D. He was very loyal to the Roman Empire. which controlled the whole Mediterranean world at that time, because about thirty-five years before he was born, the Emperor Constantine had granted full toleration to Christianity. under the Edict of Milan. And so Christianity was even favored at times, and he served as a court official for a Christian emperor, Theodosius. He he held high office. He was a powerful judge. He was a well-respected leader within the Roman Empire. But at the age of 57, at the very height of his prestige, at the fullness of his powers, He said, This is not what it's all about. Political power, earthly power, earthly empires, that's not what it's all about There's something more important. He had always been a Christian, but now he realizes that telling people about Jesus, helping the church to worship Jesus, is a much better use of his time and his talents. And so for the last ten years of his life He retires from public life to write sacred hymns and poetry. And one of them that he writes is a nine-verse hymn called Of the Father's Love Begotten. Originally nine verses, we don't sing all of them today, but it begins with the Son's eternal nature, and then the creation of the world, the fall of humanity, redemption through the virgin birth, and then Christ as the fulfillment of the ancient prophecies. a chorus of praise to the Messiah, a warning of the final judgment for the wicked, men, women, and children singing praise, and then a final song of victory to Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. So it's a wonderful all-encompassing rich tapestry of praise. And so we're going to look at the nine verses before we listen to uh oh beautiful rendition of the father's love begotten. In our modern hymnals and in modern days we don't sing all nine verses. We don't seem to have that long of an attention span in the church. today, uh but it's a wonderful thing to look at. So I'm going to read these nine verses. Of the Father's love begotten. Ere the world, before the worlds began to be, he is Alpha and Omega, He the source, the ending He of the things that are, that have been, and that future years shall see evermore and evermore At his word, the worlds were framed. He commanded it was done. Heaven and earth and depths of ocean in their threefold order, one. You see what he's doing there? Heaven, earth, ocean. three in one, unity, diversity, a picture of the Trinity in creation, all that grows beneath the shining of the moon and burning sun evermore and evermore. He is found in human fashion, death and sorrow here to know that the race of Adam's children doomed to law, doomed by law to endless woe may not henceforth die and perish in the dreadful gulf below, evermore and evermore. Oh that birth for ever blessed when the Virgin, full of grace, by the Holy Ghost conceiving, bore the Savior of our race, and the babe. The world's Redeemer first revealed his sacred face evermore and evermore. This is he whom seers in old time, that's prophets in the old time. chanted of with one accord, whom the voices of the prophets promised in their faithful word. Now he shines, the long expected Let creation praise its Lord evermore and evermore. O ye heights of heavens, adore him, angel hosts his praises sing, powers, dominions bow before him, and extol our God and king. Let no tongue on earth be silent, every voice in concert sing evermore and evermore. Righteous judge of souls departed, righteous king of them that live On the Father's throne exalted, none in might with thee may strive, Who at last in vengeance coming, Sinners from thy face shall drive evermore and evermore. Thee let old men, thee let young men, thee let boys in chorus sing, matrons, virgins Little maidens, with glad voices answering, Let their guileless songs re-echo, and the heart its music bring, Evermore and Evermore. Christ to thee, with God the Father, and O Holy Ghost to thee, hymn and chant and high thanksgiving and unwearied praises be. honor, glory, and dominion, and eternal victory evermore and evermore. Let's pray O Heavenly Father, O Glorious Son, O Holy Spirit, our God three in one, how wonderful you are, what a precious gift you gave. Lord God, when you sent your Son into the world, true God, to become truly human, to become our Redeemer. You are worthy of all praise. You're worthy of our thanksgiving. You're worthy of our adoration. You're worthy of our obedience. Move our hearts to worship you deeply in this Advent season and evermore. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks so much for joining me for this devotional as we kick off our second week together. Now let's listen together to of the Father's love begotten. Of the fathers not be got to be God. He loves towards me and Dingy All the Kings that I think I'm not imitating. I no more, I have no more Who might put for a blessing with no burden for My holy God season for this. And God in the world we did reveal his sacred face Never more and never more. This is all time changes. Problems in the fake forward Now he shall get some praises more. Nebla High Tan Him host his praise. Also man before that not hard on that be saw. Never more, never more. Christ to be with God of Father, I know he goes to thee. Near things as I thanks give thee.