Psalm twenty-seven of David The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh My adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war arise against me, yet I will be confident. One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock. And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me, and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy. I will sing and make melody to the Lord. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me You have said, seek my face. My heart says to you, your face, Lord, do I seek. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger. O you who have been my help, cast me not off. Forsake me not, O God of my salvation, for my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. Teach me your way, O Lord, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies. Give me not up to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me, and they breathe out violence. I believe That I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait for the Lord. Be strong and let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord Heavenly Father, your word is truth and powerful. Holy Spirit, apply this word to our hearts. That we might love you and live according to your ways, to your glory in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. The Titanic is a ship, one of the most famous ships in the history of the world, famous for all the wrong reasons. You may have heard a a popular myth that either the designer of the Titanic or the captain said before the maiden voyage that God himself could not sink the Titanic. Well neither one of them actually said that, so we shouldn't uh believe that myth. But Bruce Ismay, who was the chairman and managing director of the White Star Line, which operated the Titanic, he did describe the ship as unsinkable. And he reflected a widespread belief that shipbuilding technology, engineering, and design and construction had reached the point now where ships could not sink. Well, Bruce Ismay was on the ship on its maiden voyage when it struck the iceberg and notoriously sank. He escaped getting into a lifeboat when many others drowned, and he had to live for the rest of his life. With having made that unsinkable claim and also having saved his own skin when his claim proved to be false. It's easy to make bold claims and strong predictions before times of trial and testing come. On a much lighter note, before this baseball season began, many people picked the Baltimore Orioles to win the AL East and perhaps make it to the World Series. But that's how predictions go. As the king of Israel said to Ben-Hadad, king of Syria in 1 Kings 20, let not him who straps on his armor boast as him who takes it off. So as we begin Psalm 27 today, I want to start by asking this question. Does our theology hold up under testing? Does our theology hold up under testing? When I was in South Carolina, I became good friends with a charismatic pastor in the area. and and he and I did some ministry work together and I got to know his story and once he had believed in the prosperity gospel and the health and wealth and particularly the name it and claim it where if you just believe God He will heal you of any disease. If you just believe God, he will pour out the blessings of heaven upon you. He believed that until his own daughter got cancer and died. And while his daughter had cancer and was declining in health, he had friends who would tell him, you just need to believe the Lord. And the Lord will heal her. Tell her that she just needs to believe the Lord and the Lord will heal her. And what he realized as he went through that trial himself is that that theology is as cruel as it is hollow. It doesn't stand up. It's easy to make bold claims. It's easy to make strong predictions before times of trial come, but does our theology hold up? True doctrine, sound doctrine, saving faith will hold up under testing. It's like Roman concrete. If you know anything about Roman concrete, you should know this. The more the storm pours water on it, or the waves of the ocean, or the sea beat up against it, the stronger it gets. And some of that Roman concrete is still standing thousands of years after it was built. Under testing, it gets even stronger. And that's what we see in David in Psalm 27. Psalm 27 breaks down into two halves, followed by a powerful conclusion. So you have verses 1 to 6, which is the first half, verses 7 to 12, which is the second half, and then verses 13 and 14, which are the conclusion. And verses 1 to 6, we have David making his confession of faith and expressing his strong confidence in the Lord. It's a very positive, very strong section. But then there is a turn in verse 7. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud. Because in verses 7 to 12, what we see is David. Undergoing testing and trial. And the cry that he raises in crisis. So it's David's cry in crisis. And finally, then verses 13 and 14 conclude with David's Renewed confession of faith and his call to his fellow believers who are in crisis Each of these two halves of Psalm 27 have a hinge verse. So we've looked at different Psalms and different Psalms are structured different ways. And so if you look at verses 1 to 6 as a half There is a hinge in the middle, and it's the beginning of verse 4. One thing have I asked of the Lord And then if you look at verses 7 to 12 as a unit, there's a hinge in the middle in verse 10, for my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. Oh, and if you're looking for chesed, in Psalm 27 you may have thought, wait a minute, I didn't see steadfast love anywhere in this ESV translation. Is is chesed hiding somewhere within the text? It is not explicitly present in Psalm 27, but I would argue what we have in Psalm 27 is a beautiful portrait. from beginning to end of what chasid is and how it functions in the life of a believer in a time of crisis. And we'll see that even more clearly as we come to the conclusion of our message later this morning. So David opens Psalm 27 by making a strong confession of faith. He declares three things about God. The Lord is my light. And my salvation and the stronghold of my life David is saying that the Lord is his illumination, the light. That means God's truth is the truth that illuminates David's life. God's righteousness is the righteousness that justifies David. Light is is a symbol in Scripture for truth and righteousness and goodness. But salvation, the Lord is also David's deliverance, his rescue from all enemies, and the stronghold of his life, his fortification. The key word here, though, in this opening confession is my. David doesn't just say, the Lord is a light. Or the Lord is the light, but David says the Lord is my light, my salvation, the stronghold of my life. You may know the truth about who God is. And you may say, yes, Jesus is the light of the world. You may say, Yes, Jesus is the Son of God and the Savior of sinners. But whenever we have children who grow up in the church and they're ready to make their profession of faith, the first thing we ask them when they come up in front of the church is: who is your Lord and Savior? And hopefully they say, Jesus. Jesus is my Lord and Savior. He's not just the Lord and Savior. He's not just a Lord and Savior. He's my Lord and Savior. He's my light, my salvation, the stronghold of my life. That confession is what stands strong. Not just that I know about Jesus, not just that I know the truth about God, but He is my God. He is my light. On the basis of these three things that he confesses about God, David then asks, Whom shall I fear? And of whom shall I be afraid? Think about it. If the Lord is your light, is there any darkness that can put out the light of the Lord? No. No way. If the Lord is your salvation, is there any enemy that he cannot deliver you from or rescue you from? No. And if the Lord is the stronghold of your life, is there anyone mighty enough to break into that stronghold and assault you while you are hidden within? No. There's no darkness that can overcome God's light. There's no enemy that can overcome God's salvation. There's no threat that shakes God's stronghold. After asking this question, David suggests three categories of people that might seek to make him afraid: evildoers, enemies, and an army. And again, as we've seen before in the Psalms, you might be sitting here thinking, uh, I don't know, I don't really have enemies. There's no army out to get me And what am I going to say in response to that? Oh yes, you do have enemies. And oh yes, there is an army out to get you. We face real opposition. It's not pretend. Sometimes we'll respond to that and say, oh yeah, I know I have spiritual enemies. And sometimes the way we modern Secularized Christians use the word spiritual is almost to mean the same thing as sort of uh symbolic or figurative. Like not really real. Oh, I know I have spiritual enemies, but there's nobody actually trying to kill me. Excuse me. Spiritual does not mean less than real. In fact, it means probably more than real, more than the physical realities that we see, which are all temporary and constantly changing. We have an ancient foe, for still our ancient foe doth seek to work us woe His rage we can endure, for lo, his doom is sure. One little word shall fell him. So it's not that there's no threat. The threat is real. It's not that there's no enemy. The enemy is real. But the word of God is more powerful. The word of God is more powerful. And that brings us to where David draws this confidence, and it's in the hinge of this first half of Psalm 27. One thing have I asked of the Lord. He says, Even if an army encamps against me Even if war rises against me, I will be confident. Why? Because one thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. I love how David's one thing is actually three things. There's actually a progression. If you think about it. One thing I ask of the Lord, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord. He just wants to be in the Lord's house. Just get me in the Lord's house, right? Another Psalm says, I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. Just get me in the door. Right? But then that's not actually good enough. Because he progresses to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord. Okay, okay, I'm in the house, but I really want to see the Lord. I want to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord. But then that's not enough either. Because he says, I want to inquire. I want to hear from God. In other words, David says, I want one thing. I want God and more God and more God. I need to be where he is, I need to be in his very presence, I need to be able to talk to him and hear from him. That's David's one thing. And I have to ask, with a little bit of conviction, maybe a lot of conviction, is David's one thing our one thing? How many times have we been able to say, really, I just want one thing from the Lord? And if we were to say, I just want one thing from the Lord, would it be this one thing? That I want more of the Lord. I want to be in his presence. I want to see him more clearly. I want to talk to him and hear from him more clearly. I need more of God. Now sometimes we think, oh, that's that sounds good, but it's not very practical I've got real needs here. I've got things that I'm dealing with. Yeah, I want more of God. Yeah, I want more of God, of course. Every Christian is going to say that. But I've got stuff. That I need from God. I need Him to take care of these things. Well, David is not blind to the practical realities of life that he has to deal with, nor is his pursuit of the Lord separated from those things. Because what does he say right after his one thing? He says, for Or because he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock. In other words, David says, I want the Lord and I want more of the Lord because I love the Lord, but also where am I going to find better help? Jesus said, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. He said don't he said don't worry about tomorrow. He said don't worry about what you're gonna wear, don't worry about what you're gonna eat. God knows you need all these things, he says, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. to you. God knows your needs. Jesus told us when he taught us the Lord's Prayer, he told us. You don't need to go on and on with lots and lots of words because the Lord knows what you need before you even ask it. God is not unaware, and He cares. And He wants you to see that the answer for all of your prayers is found in Him. In him. He's the one who can deliver us from our enemies. He's the one who can give us the resources that we need to meet our needs. He's the one who can teach us where we are ignorant and going astray. He's the one who can strengthen us where we are weak. He's the one who can comfort us where we are covered in shame. He's the one who who can reassure us when we're dealing with doubt, He is the answer to our prayers. We need more of him And then David says, What he will do when the Lord answers. He says, I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy, I will sing and make melody to the Lord. It's a pattern for us in life. What do we need to do? We need to seek the Lord. We need to trust him that he will take care of us. And so we need to have that single-minded focus. The one thing I need is God and more of God. And then when he does meet our needs, we need to give him thanks. We need to praise him. You know, all this sounds good in the abstract. You're sitting here in a comfortable ish I know those chairs aren't super comfortable, so I won't say really comfortable, but comfortable-ish on a Sunday morning in church It's easy to say, oh yes, we need more of the Lord. Oh yes, the Lord's going to meet all of our needs. And oh yes, the Lord can defeat all of our enemies. Those things are easy to say this morning in worship. But when the crisis hits, when we're in distress, what then? We know about some of the crises that people in our church family are facing as we prayed earlier, and there are five of our brothers and sisters within our church that are dealing with very serious cancer diagnoses. Some have been battling these cancers for years. Some are just entering into this trial We have other prayer requests for other struggles that we know about. People dealing with health things, people dealing with Doubt, sin, loneliness, grief, conflict, strain, opposition What happens to this confident confession of faith when it is tested by trial? Well, verse 7 brings us to the place where David is in trial in verses 7 to 12. Here, O Lord, when I cry aloud. This is no peaceful passive prayer. This is no Sitting at the table in the morning with your cup of coffee, half falling asleep over the Bible, trying to remember what to pray for on your prayer list. This is a desperate cry of a man who is in trouble. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me. And what is the substance of his cry in crisis? We actually get it in the form of five negatives. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away. Cast me not off. Forsake me not. Give me not up to the will of my adversaries. That's the way that our prayers take shape in the crisis. Don't let this thing get me But notice really when you focus on what David's asking, they're really the flip side Of his positive one thing from verse 4. The one thing David wants is to be in God's presence to behold his beauty, to inquire in his temple. And so what he doesn't want is to have the face of God hidden from him, to be turned away, to be cast off, to be forsaken, to be given up. to the will of his adversaries. It's the same passion. In other words, it drives David in that positive way to say, there's one thing I've asked of the Lord that causes him in crisis to say, oh no. Don't let me be separated from you. Don't take away the one thing that I wanted, that I most needed. Now, did David think that God was really going to abandon him? No. We see two reasons to believe that David didn't really believe God was going to abandon him. First is in verse 8, when he says, You have said, seek my face. David knows that to whatever extent that he is seeking the Lord, to whatever extent the Lord is his one thing, it's because the Lord has first spoken to him And said, seek my face. And God's not going to extend an invitation to us that He's then going to walk away from. God's not going to say, I want you to seek me, and then say, oh, never mind, I don't want to have anything to do with you. And David knows that. He says, You have said to me, Seek my face. My heart says, O Lord, your face will I seek. He's responding to God's call. But then in verse ten it's even clearer. In verse 10 is to me one of the most beautiful pictures of Chesed in all of the Psalms. For my father and mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. The closest and best of our earthly loves may forsake us. But the Lord never will. He will take us in. Earlier this week Murray Wilson was sharing a touching story of ministering to a man in his church who was dying. And Murray was sharing Psalm 27 with him. And his son was there. And when Murray got to verse 10, the man stopped Murray and he looked over at his son and he said, Son, I am forsaking you. I am leaving you. But the Lord will take care of you. The Lord will take care of you. That's our hope. That's the hasid of the Lord. Everybody else might fall away. Everybody else might turn their back, but never the Lord. But David knew that if the Lord were to abandon him, he would have no hope. And so he pleads for the Lord not to abandon him. Jesus sought the face of his father in the same way in his life. All the psalms really reflect the heart of Jesus and this one as well. Jesus, we know, inquired of his father for wisdom all night before selecting his twelve disciples. He inquired of the Lord. He rose early in the morning, frequently, and would spend time in prayer with the Lord before teaching and touching people with the power of God. And then in the longest and darkest night of his life, he desperately sought his father in the Garden of Gethsemane. He was terrified by the same thing that terrified David, the thought of being abandoned by the Lord. That's why he said, if it's possible, take this cup from me, because the cup was the cup of the wrath of God. And it would mean that Jesus, the Son of God, would have to be abandoned by his Father. And here's the reality. Here's the reality. God never forsook David. David was a sinful man. We say he's a man after God's own heart, but he's also a sinful man. And you know the life of David to know both of those things are true. He would pen the Psalms, he would dance before the Lord with all of his might, and he would commit adultery with Bathsheba, and he would arrange for Uriah to be murdered, and he would commit He would carry out a census even against the advice of his people. He was a sinful man, and the Lord never abandoned him and never forsook him, never once. When he was stubborn in his sin, the Lord sent Nathan the prophet to confront him, to call him to repentance, to be reconciled to him, because God would not turn his back on David, even though David deserved it. But here's the truth. God the Father did turn his back on his son. Jesus was forsaken by the Father. Jesus did have the face of the Father hidden from him. Jesus was given up to the will of his adversaries who brutally tortured, mocked, and murdered him. All that David feared, all that David pleaded with the Lord to spare him, Jesus willingly took. When he prayed, not my will, but yours be done. And why would he do that? He would do that so that you and I would never have to face that. He was forsaken so that we never would be. He was cut off so that we never will be. God the Father hid his face from Jesus so that his face could shine upon us for all eternity. How do we know? Because after Jesus was cast off and given up, he was raised up in power. And he was declared to be the Son of God with power by his resurrection from the dead. And he appeared to his disciples, and he then ascended into heaven, where he sits at God's right hand, and he ever lives to make intercession for us because Jesus has been vindicated, we know that what he cried out on the cross, it is finished, was fulfilled, was accepted by God. God accepted the payment, and the acceptance of that payment is seen. In the resurrected Lord. The one who sits at the right hand of God, the one who is King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the one who lives forevermore, still bears the scars. Of the price he paid for our redemption. And when we go to God Afraid that we've screwed up one too many times, that we've blown it, that this time there's probably no hope for us When we go to God and we say, Oh Lord, do not forsake me, do not hide your face from me, do not turn your back on me, do not give me up to the will of my adversaries. When we pray Psalm 27, God the Father sees the wounds in his son. And his love for us is renewed. New every morning. Great is his faithfulness. Jesus never fails. So God's love for us in Christ never fail. So what do we do when we're facing our own crises? Well, David concludes, he had a confession at the beginning. He has a confession at the end. I believe. This is a this is a battle-tested, a battle-hardened confession. It's not an abstract. It's concrete. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. I believe. I trust. I confidently expect, based on God's promise, that when the crisis has passed, I shall indeed look upon the goodness of the Lord. In the land of the living. This is a confidence in God's promises for this life and for eternity. In David's life, one of the hardest things he had to go through was the death of his infant son. After he committed adultery with Bathsheba, the child that was born of their adulterous relationship died. But the child was sick and the child was wasting away. And while the child was sick and the child was wasting away, David was fasting. He would take no food. He had sackcloth. He was weeping. He was seeking the Lord. And then the child died, and his servants were afraid to even bring him word That the child had died. They said, look at what distress he was in while the child was still alive. What is he going to do now that we're going to bring him word that the child has died? And so they go in and they say, David, we're sorry, the child has died. And David surprises everybody. He gets up, he washes himself off, he puts on his good clothes. He goes to worship God in the house of the Lord, and then he comes back and sits down at his banqueting table and takes food and eats. The servants were confused. They said, What is this thing you've done? You fasted and wept while the child was alive, but when the child died, you arose and ate food. He said, while the child was still alive, I fasted and wept, for I said, Who knows whether the Lord will be gracious to me that the child may live? But now he is dead, why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me. Now what's interesting is some Bible critics and scholars have taken this saying from David as just being like, well one day I'm going to die like he died, and I'm just going to go be worm food like he did. But if that's what he was thinking, it wouldn't make any sense that he would go and worship and then come and eat. These are actions of thanksgiving and of joy. When he said, I will go to him, but he will not return to me, this was his confession that he knew that his infant son was with the Lord. He was in the presence of the Lord. And he knew, to use the words of this psalm, that he would look upon the goodness of the Lord in the face of his son in the land of the living. We can speak of this life as the land of the living. That's an appropriate way to think about it. But if you really think about it, as we saw in Psalm 90 earlier. The reality is this is the land of the dying. From the time we come into this world, one thing is certain, if the Lord Jesus doesn't return first, all of us will die. But there is a land where there is no more death In the presence of God where the souls of our dearly departed loved ones who believed in the Lord are now enjoying the glorious presence of God. We confessed it earlier in the worship service. They are made perfect in holiness. They are received into the highest heavens where they behold the face of God in light and glory. That is the land of the living, and even more so, waiting for the full redemption of their bodies, when the resurrection comes and we are in the new heavens and the new earth, that will be the land of the living. And so I believe the thrust of this confession at the end of this trial is to say, I believe, I am confident, I know that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Another way to think about that is God always answers every prayer of his children for healing. But he does so in a way that exceeds our expectations You see the name it claimant theology that says if you just believe God will bring the healing, it's not entirely wrong. It's just misplaced It's trying to pull heaven into this world. It's trying to pull the new heavens and the new earth and the resurrection into this life. But God answers the prayer of every believer for healing in a way that far exceeds our expectation because there will come a day when we are resurrected and we are enjoying the new heavens and the new earth in the land of the living where there won't be any such a thought as cancer. It won't even be a possibility. or a mental health struggle or depression or anxiety or loneliness or fear or doubt. It'll be gone. Body, soul, mind healed completely, perfectly forever And that's the hope that we have. And so David's call to us at the end is to wait for the Lord. Be strong and let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. Oh, but that's just so passive. Wait for the Lord. It's not passive. That's why he says, be strong and let your heart take courage. Waiting for the Lord is not passive. Another way we can understand this word to wait is to eagerly look for, to expect. Even to lie in wait for. And the root of the word is the word for binding together by twisting like a rope. And the picture that I have in my mind when I think of that, waiting for the Lord And being bound together like a rope being twisted together and securely held is, I think, what does Hebrews 6 tell us about our hope? Hebrews 6 tells us that we have a hope that is an anchor, a sure and steadfast anchor for the soul, and that hope is Jesus. who is in God's presence as a forerunner on our behalf, as the firstborn from the dead, as our faithful high priest, as our older brother He's there. He is the hope. He is the anchor for our soul. But there's a rope that ties us to that anchor. And it's the Holy Spirit giving us faith. And what we're called to do is to hold on and allow that faith, allow that hope to be more and more woven together, twisted into our very souls, so that we are holding more firmly. To that rope. That's what it means to wait on the Lord, is to take the promises of God and the character of God and the purposes of God and to have them be woven into our soul, twisted together, so that they hold us as we hold on to them. We hold the rope that's secured to the anchor in heaven, but also we are being held and upheld by Al-Hesed of the Lord, by his steadfast love. It is, after all, his steadfast love that has made him our light and our salvation and the stronghold of our life and our God. It is his steadfast love that has drawn our hearts to him as the one thing we truly need. It's his steadfast love that caused us to seek his face and that has promised us that we do not seek in vain. It's his steadfast love that brings us into his eternal family when all earthly loves fall short and disappoint us. So we hold on to the rope, but the reality is that the wo the rope is tied around us and will not let us go. I don't know what trials you're facing. I know for some of you, but I don't know for all of you. But I know that in the deepest trials of life, there is one anchor that never fails, and there is one rope that never snaps. And that is the Lord Jesus Christ and the faith the Holy Spirit has given us in Him. So the call to us. is to believe and to wait until the one thing that we're asking of the Lord Becomes eternally and unshakably and perfectly fulfilled, and we are with God forever. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for being our one thing. Never fails. Our closest earthly loves may fail us or forsake us, but you will take us in. You will care for us. You will never let us go. Lord Jesus, thank you that you were abandoned and forsaken at the cross, so that we never would be. Holy Spirit, thank you for bringing us to Christ. So that we can have something that this world can never take away, something that the world cannot even begin to comprehend. A light the darkness cannot Comprehend or overcome, a salvation that is stronger than every enemy, a stronghold that is impenetrable Keep us and strengthen our confidence in your keeping of us. Keep us and keep strengthening our confidence in your keeping of us. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.