Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Presbyterian Church. Welcome. As we are working our way through the Apostles' Creed section of the Heidelberg Catechism, we've come today to begin to speak about the church. And so question fifty-four is focused on the church. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to Him today. Father, we thank you so much that you have established your church, that you love your church. And that you teach us about your church from your word. We pray that you would be our teacher and guide as we look at the Heidelberg Catechism and as we look at Scripture today. Lead us in truth. And shape our hearts with your love, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Heidelberg Catechism, we're in a section that began back with question 23, although we're on question 54 today. So this is a long section of the catechism that deals with the Apostles' Creed as the articles of the Christian faith. So question 23 asks, what are these articles? And it breaks the Apostles' Creed down into 12 articles in three sections, a Trinitarian approach as the Apostles' Creed is. First section is about God the Father. Second section is about God the Son, and the third section is about God the Holy Spirit. And that's the section that we're on now. We're actually on Article 9 today. So the answer to what are these articles is, I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried. he descended into hell. On the third day he arose from the dead, he ascended into heaven, and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. So that was question twenty-three. Today we come to question 54. What do you believe concerning the Holy Catholic Christian Church? Answer. I believe that the Son of God, out of the whole human race, from the beginning of the world to its end gathers, defends, and preserves for himself, by his spirit and word, in the unity of the true faith, a church chosen to everlasting life. And I believe that I am, and forever shall remain, a living member of it. I love how the Heidelberg Catechism is just consistently giving us sound doctrine, but also sound doctrine personally applied for our comfort in the gospel. So when we talk about the Holy Catholic Christian Church Clarification, we're not talking about the Roman Catholic Church, capital R, capital C, which is a particular denomination with a particular structure. No, we're talking about out of the whole human race, it's universal. The the law small c Catholic just means universal, holy, set apart by God, but universal throughout the whole human race and from the beginning of the world to its end. That's that's a good way of understanding the word Catholic out of the whole human race from the beginning of the world to its end. Christian, because we believe in the true unity of the true faith. and were gathered, defended, and preserved for himself, by Jesus, by his Spirit and His Word. So we have lots of scripture proofs for this. Every part of this has its own set of scripture proofs. So we're going to walk through Not all of them, but we're going to walk through a good selection of them today. So Revelation 5. 9 tells us that this is out of the entire human race. This is a scene of the worship of the Lord Jesus as the Lamb of God in the throne of God. And we see this multitude, these elders, who say, And they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals. For you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. That's Catholic. That's universal. Every tribe and language and people and nation, there's a people for God. That's the church, one church. It may be Baptist or Pentecostal or or Lutheran or Presbyterian or Methodist or Anglican or non-denominational, but if we are in Christ We may be Ugandan and even within Uganda it's about fifty-five different tribes. You may be Mahdi or Amaringa or or um You may be from South Sudan, one of those tribes, you may be from the Republic of Sudan, you may be from Haiti. We're all one church, one church front of the entire human race. And then from the beginning of the world to its end, Isaiah 59, 21. And as for me, this is my covenant with them, says the Lord, my spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put into your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth Or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring, says the Lord, from this time forth and So, this time forth forevermore, generation upon generation, from the beginning of the world to the end. Another one is 1 Corinthians 11, 26. For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. We're continuing as the church. through the Lord's Supper, the instituted sacrament of the Lord's Supper, to proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. What else? Well, Jesus gathers, defends, and preserves for himself. Where do we see this in Scripture? Well, we see it in John 10, 27 and 28, one of my favorite promises from Jesus. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. How does he gather us? He gathers us through his spirit and his word. Romans 10, 14 and 17 tells us, how will they call upon him? in whom they have not believed, and how are they to believe in him, of whom they have never heard, and how are they to hear without someone preaching? So faith comes from hearing and hearing through the word of Christ. That is how he gathers, defends, and protects. So he says, my sheep hear my voice. How do we hear his voice? Through the word of God, especially the word of God preached. The word of Christ is how we hear his voice and we know him and we follow him and he gives us eternal life and we will never perish. So we are defended, we are gathered, we're protected through his spirit and his word. Again, through his spirit and his word, Isaiah 59, 21 that we already looked at in the context of forever, but it is My spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth shall not depart from out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring. So it's the spirit and the word that is from this time forth and forevermore. We are in the unity of the true faith. This is important. It's what we believe that gives us unity. It's what we believe that makes us and marks us as the church. We should be, as Ephesians 4, 3 and 5 says, 3 to 5 says, we should be eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace, because there is one body and one spirit. Just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. There's here actually a sevenfold unity in the one Holy Spirit, and it's our faith, the body of Christ, the Holy Spirit, the hope of our call, the Lord, the faith, the baptism. All by the Holy Spirit gives us our unity. And then we have Romans 8, 29-30. We are a church that is chosen to everlasting life. For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those who he called, he also justified. And those who he justified, he also glorified. We are a church chosen to eternal life. And I believe That I am and forever shall remain a living member of it. Because Romans 8 ends, that says, For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation. will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. So we are and we remain forever. members of living members of this eternally secure church of Jesus Christ. There's a lot more scripture we could do, but we don't have all day to spend Looking at every scripture, but hopefully that was a good sample to give you assurance that every phrase that is here in question fifty-four comes from the Bible, is biblical. The Heidelberg Catechism brings us gospel comfort, not because the authors of the Heidelberg Catechism were great geniuses, but because they mind the wonderful treasures of Scripture and gave them to us in this question and answer form. So again, question fifty four, what do you believe concerning the Holy Catholic Christian Church? I believe that the Son of God, that is the Lord Jesus Christ, out of the whole human race, from the beginning of the world to its end, gathers defends and preserves for himself by his spirit and his word So how does he gather us? By his spirit and his word. How does he defend us? By his spirit and his word. How does he preserve us? By his spirit and his word. It's never by human means. We don't wage warfare as the world does We wage warfare against our enemy, Satan, by the Spirit and the Word. And we are in the unity of the true faith. And we are a church chosen to eternal life. And I believe that I am and forever shall remain a living member of it. I hope that you know that that's true of you. I hope that you have that assurance by faith in Jesus Christ. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, O gracious God, please grow us in our love for your church. our appreciation of the work that you are doing in and through your church, our commitment to your church, just as you, Lord Jesus, are committed to us. May we be committed to you and to your people that you've called us to have fellowship with and to live life with. Father, grow us, we pray, in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. We're going to respond now to all that we've heard about the church by singing a wonderful hymn of the church. We've sung it earlier in this devotional series, but it's the church's one foundation is Jesus Christ her Lord. The church is one foundation is Jesus Christ our Lord. She is I water and the word from heaven came and caused her to He brides with his own bloody butter and for her life when he died. He left from heaven. Yet one more ear charge of one Lord, one faith, one word. One only name she was her takes one holy first and to one of she rest. With every grace and this world says, My scarce entrance under my heritage distress Yes ain't their watch or giving their cry. And so the night of weeping shall be the morning. And the war she waves her conversation her. Forever more to with the flesh and glory nice our glass and the great church Victoria shall be the church and friend, and she honored as union with God for free. And mistakes first come with those whose rest is one. Lord save us for your grace that we like things we're using to say.