Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Through this wonderful gift to the church from 1563, the Heidelberg Catechism, we are working our way through a series of 129 questions and answers that really walk us through the biblical gospel and they lead us to gospel comfort as we pass from guilt through grace to gratitude. And we are in the grace portion. of the Heidelberg Catechism, we are learning about our mediator and deliverer, the Lord Jesus Christ, and how we get the benefits that he brings to us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son to be our Savior, He who is true God. And also a true and righteous man, our Savior, our mediator, our deliverer, the Lord Jesus Christ. Deepen our faith in Christ. Deepen our knowledge of Christ, strengthen our love for Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Alright, from guilt through grace to gratitude, we're looking at question number 20 today, but we're going to be reviewing Question 18, a couple times ago we were asking, who is that mediator who is at the same time true God? and a true and righteous man. And the answer is our Lord Jesus Christ, who has become for us wisdom from God. That is, our righteousness, holiness, and redemption according to 1 Corinthians 1 30. Jesus Christ is true God and true and righteous man. He is our Righteousness, holiness, and redemption. He's the wisdom from God because he answers the need of humanity and gives glory to God in doing so. Question 19. From where do you know this? Well, it's from the holy gospel, which God himself first revealed in paradise. Later he had it proclaimed by the patriarchs and prophets. and foreshadowed by the sacrifices and other ceremonies of the law, finally he had it fulfilled through his only That was what we looked at last time. So today we come to question number 20. Are all men then saved by Christ just as they perished through Adam? And the answer is no. Only those are saved who by a true faith are grafted into Christ and accept all his benefits. So this really reflects back on question 18. If Jesus Christ has become for us wisdom from God, that is our righteousness. holiness and redemption. Who is the us and the hour? Jesus became wisdom from God for us. Who's the us? He is our righteousness, holiness, and redemption. Who is the hour? Well, the answer is that those who, by a true faith, are grafted into Christ. That is, our lives are joined to Christ's life by faith, and we accept all his benefits. Where do we get this in Scripture? The idea that not everyone is saved, but only those who have a true faith. Well, one place we get it is in Matthew 7, 13-14, where Jesus himself says, Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide, and the way is easy, that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow, and the way is hard, that leads to life, and those who find it are few. So most people, the many people, they're just going their own way, doing their own thing. They're on a broad road, the easy road, and it leads to destruction. But there is a narrow gate. There is a narrow way, a way that's hard. It does lead to life, and there are few who find it. Who are the few who find it? Well John chapter 1, verses 9 to 13 says this about Jesus. The true light, which gives light to everyone, that's Jesus. The true light which gives light to everyone was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him, but to all who did receive him who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. So who has the right to become children of God? It's those who receive Him, who believe in His name. And this is done because we are born of the will of God. Moving on in John's Gospel to John chapter 3, verses 16 to 18, one of the most famous passages in all of Scripture. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. You see, the whole world, as we saw back at the beginning of the catechism, The whole world, everyone, stands condemned before a holy God. We have sinned against God repeatedly. There's no way to have that sin removed except through the one true mediator. True man and true and righteous, true and righteous man and true God, the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself as a ransom for many. But those who receive this are those who believe. Whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. You see that expression twice here. Whoever believes in him should not perish, is not condemned If you don't believe, you're already condemned. It's not that Jesus came into the world to condemn you. It's that Jesus came into the world to bring the one way of salvation. And if you don't believe in him, you stand condemned already. And then John 3. 36, whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God remains on him. It's not that Jesus puts the wrath of God on us by his coming. It's the wrath of God remains on us. if we don't take the escape that Jesus comes to provide. It's like being trapped in a burning building and flames are all around. And the roof is falling down and the structure is crumbling, and all of a sudden a brave firefighter comes in and and comes to rescue. If you refuse to go with that firefighter If you say, I don't trust you, I don't believe that you're going to get me out of here, you're going to die in the fiery inferno. That's the reality. Jesus is the only way of salvation. He's the way of salvation for all who believe in him, but for those who reject him, well then we remain under condemnation. That is the truth of God's word that we need to hear Are all men saved by Christ, just as they perished through Adam? No. Only those are saved who, by a true faith, are grafted into Christ and accept all his benefits. I hope that's you. I hope that by faith you have united your life to Christ and you've said, Jesus, you are my Savior. I have no other salvation but you. You're my hope. I have no other hope but you. You're my life, I have no other life but you. And if that's what you've done, then you have salvation in Jesus. And if you haven't done that, do it now. Turn to him now and say, Lord Jesus, save me. You're the only mediator. You're the only one who is true God and true and righteous man. You're the only one promised by the prophets. Foretold by the ceremonies of the Old Testament, you're the only one who came in the fullness of time to free us. I trust in you. Cry out to him today, and you too will receive this salvation in Jesus. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, thank you for the gift of your Son Jesus Christ, the wonderful Savior, who comes to deliver us from our sin and bring us to you. Father, please give us faith. Pray that if anyone is listening to this or watching this and they don't know you, that you would bring them to a true and saving faith, that they would know you, that they would turn to you, that they would trust in you. And that they would receive eternal life in you and you alone. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me as we're continuing to make our way through the wonderful Heidelberg Catechism. Let's respond to the truth of God by worshiping Him together in song. On a hill far away, stood an old rug across, the emblem of suffering. And shame and I love that old cross where the tears stand up. Of us since was great, so change the old drug give cross. Till my troll speaks the last dialogue I will cling to the call. And exchange itself. Oh, that over here cross, so despised by those. The world has a wondrous attraction for me, for the feeling of God So Yapa to Bear Calvary Soach D. So much hope we let I lay down And exchange it's something for a club. Wonder this beauty I see. For 'twas long that all cross Jesus suffered and died to part in and thank you thy me. So I change the overcame cloud till my crowd feeds and last time. I lay back I will clearly get in the oak in the cloud when any