We're turning our attention to Romans chapter nine, verse thirty, to chapter ten, verse four. Romans 9:30 to 104. So we're considering the truth that only God's righteousness saves. Hear the word of God. What shall we say then? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it? That is, a righteousness that is by faith, but that Israel, who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness, did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone. As it is written, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge For being ignorant of the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. Let's pray. Father, thank you for such a gospel, such a clear word from you. We pray that you would help us to understand it and receive it. And believe you and grow in you through this word this morning. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated No one, in their right mind, would just voluntarily sign up to undergo a regimen of radiation therapy and chemotherapy. You would not just wake up on a random Tuesday morning and say, I don't have much to do with my life over the next several months. Um I feel like being weak and sick. And uh so let me just go get radiation for weeks and then be on chemo for months. You wouldn't do that. And yet we do have several people within our church family who have undergone radiation or who are on chemo. It's not fun. Why would they do it? Are they not in their right minds? No, it's because they have cancer. And knowing that they have cancer, they know that the only way to get the cancer out of their bodies or bring it under control and extend their life with their spouses with their children in this world is through these treatments that can be difficult. Jesus calls people to follow him. He says, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. As we'll see in two weeks' time. You have to say Jesus is Lord from the heart in order to be saved. And a lot of people think Why would I want to do that? Why would I want to follow, submit, confess, trust this guy? The hardest people to reach with the good news of salvation in Jesus are good people. Because good people don't think they need a savior. They hear the gospel of salvation and forgiveness of sin and everlasting life and escape from hell and they think Why would God send me to hell? I'm a good person. I'm faithful to my spouse. I'm a good parent to my kids. I pay my taxes. I work my job. I'm a decent sort of individual. Why do I need any of this? It's not anything new This is human nature. Jesus himself said it when he was here in Mark 2. 17. He said, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I've not come to call the righteous, but sinners. And it's not that there really are well people and sick people. It's that everybody's sick, but some people think they're well and so they're never going to go to the doctor, and some people know they're sick and they're going to go to the doctor. And I remember years ago I was sick and it was lingering and it was getting worse. But I was working as head of school at New Covenant. And I had a busy schedule, which I know is shocking to you who know me that I would have a busy schedule. And I just didn't feel like I could take time off, so I just, you know, kept going, kept going. And finally Beth said, you really need to go to the doctor because you sound terrible and this is not getting any better. So finally I admitted. It wasn't just something that was going to pass. I was sick enough that I needed to go to the doctor And I still remember that examination. Oh, you have an ear infection in both ears. And you have strep throat, and you have bronchitis, which is on the borderline of becoming pneumonia And I said, oh, what am I going to do? And she said, well here's this antibiotic I'm putting you on, but you need to stop and take time off and rest because you are running yourself into the ground. And so I did. But we need to know what our problem is before we're gonna be ready to reach for the solution And the biggest trap then that we need to avoid if we're really going to hear the gospel is a trap that we are all capable of falling into, and that is the trap of self-righteousness. And that's our first point today, is that we need to avoid the trap of self-righteousness. We see this in verses 30 to 32. What shall we say then? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it, that is a righteousness that is by faith, but that Israel, who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works. This is Paul continuing to wrestle with the truth that the vast majority of his fellow Jews do not believe in Jesus. who was Jewish and who was the promised Jewish Messiah and who was witness to in all the scriptures that the Jewish people have had for centuries and many of them have memorized and many of them prayed every day and every week and they had this law of righteousness And yet they didn't reach the goal of the law of righteousness because they weren't approaching it by faith. They were approaching it by works. And this is This plays out throughout the New Testament in in surprising ways. Here we are on Palm Sunday. It's Palm Sunday today. And It's the beginning of Holy Week. What happened on Palm Sunday? Jesus rides into Jerusalem on the back of a donkey in direct fulfillment of Scripture, Zechariah 9. 9, and he's coming to bring salvation. And the people come out and they respond. And they bring palm branches. And they say, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna to the son of David. And they lay down their palm branches and they lay down their coats. And yet, days later, that same crowd is crying out, crucify him. Crucify him. And the leadership, the experts in the law, the scribes, the Pharisees, the chief priests, the teachers of the law, the ones who knew the Bible the best. Demanded that Jesus be put to death. And then the disciples left him at the cross. And he's there all alone. And in the whole passion narrative, the one person who seems to come to faith in Jesus Christ is the centurion who's overseeing the crucifixion, the Roman soldier who's in charge of the crucifixion detail, when the sky turns black, he says Surely this man was the Son of God. What? How does this pagan Roman soldier, hardened guy, he had just supervised the driving of the nails and the whipping and the scourging and the Putting on the cross and the crown of thorns and all that. He had just done all that. Roman centurion, occupier, enemy, and here he's the one who comes to faith, and all the religious leaders are not And this is despite all the spiritual benefits that we saw last week at the beginning of Romans 9. They are the Israelites, to them belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship, the promises. To them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen And then Paul later, years later, Paul goes out on a missionary journey. And what does he find when he goes out on a missionary journey? Paul followed a pattern. He was trained as a scholar in the school of the Pharisees at the feet of Gamaliel. He knew his scriptures well. He was a good Jewish boy. He goes into a town and he goes to the synagogue where his fellow Jews are and he reasons with them from the scriptures. Surely here you're going to find a ready audience. They've got the scriptures, they're gathered together in synagogue. I will go and Proclaim Christ to them. And almost nobody comes to faith that way. One or two, maybe a handful. Few here and there. But eventually the leadership and the Jewish people say, no, get out of here. We don't want to hear this stuff. You're teaching us false doctrine. And so he goes to the Gentiles and he preaches in the marketplace or he preaches uh where where the Gentiles are gathered, and he sees a much bigger response from them, almost inevitably And so the early church that Paul's ministering to, including this church of Rome, is vast majority Gentile. There are some Jews. But the church's vast majority Gentile and the vast majority of the Jews don't believe in Jesus. It seems like an absolute contradiction, but this is the trap of self-righteousness. We talked about this this morning in Sunday school, but they missed the purpose of the law. They missed the purpose of the law when they looked at it as a pattern for self-righteousness. Why did God give the law of Moses? The law of Moses was given as part of the unfolding of the covenant of grace. As part of God's displaying the gospel promises before His people in anticipation of the one who was to come. What they should have gotten from the law was We keep meeting sacrifices to cover our sins every day, every year. We're given this moral law in the Ten Commandments that none of us can ever keep and we're continually falling short of The prophets are coming and speaking to us about the ways in which we're guilty of idolatry and of worldly compromise. They should have, in other words, the law was given as a picture of what Christ would do in the ceremonial law, and as a mirror to show us the character of God and then to reflect back on us our own character in the light of that. And it should have been humbling. And it should have been blinding. They should have looked at the mirror of the law and they should have said, Woe is me, for I am undone. I fall so far short. And there's no way that all the blood of these animals could possibly atone for everything that I know I've done wrong. They should have been broken by the law. But instead, they took the law and they fashioned a ladder out of it. A ladder by which they might ascend to heaven. Almost like a Tower of Babel. Let us go up step by step. The law of Moses had over six hundred discrete commandments, but the Pharisees and the experts of the law added hundreds more to those And what they said is they were like a fence around the law. It would definitely keep you from breaking the law, because if you imagine this table up here being the law and they would put other commandments like this fence here and they would say, well if we if we forbid people from doing even this, there's no way they'd ever get close enough to break this. Thinking about the law in external terms. And as a doable thing, they make their checklist, and even if the checklist is thousands of items long, you can go through and you can check it off and you can be convinced of your own self-righteousness. Instead of being broken by the law, they were looking at it as a way of self-righteousness. And then Jesus comes in to the world, and they're thinking that they are the righteous people. They have God's word memorized. They sing it. They pray it. They write it down on scraps of paper and keep it in boxes tied to their forehead. They they write it on the door post of their house. They teach it to their children. They're like, we are the good people. We are doing all these things. And Jesus comes into the world and says things like, well You realize that if you look at a woman with lustful intent in your heart, you've already committed adultery with her in your heart. Ooh. Now where's the fence that we can build to keep our you realize that if you hate someone, you've murdered that person in your heart and you realize that if you say you fool to that driver who cuts you off in traffic You're liable to the judgment of God. Who? Where's the fence we can build to keep us away from that? And after all this teaching, He's coming right at their self-righteousness. Finally, toward the end in Matthew 22, someone comes to him and says, What is the greatest commandment in the law? And he says, love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your mind, with all your soul, and with all your strength. This is the first and greatest commandment, and the second is like it, love your neighbor as much as you love yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. And again, what they should have done was say, ouch, I fall short. I need mercy. I need a savior. Instead, they just said, oh yeah, you've answered well. Even on these deep, rich commandments that really get to the heart of the law, which is a law of love, which should be so convicting, they just say, ah You're right. I agree. Let's nod. Let's agree. Self-righteousness is a trap. It's a trap because we fool ourselves into thinking that if we can keep the checklist And then we sort of measure ourselves by looking around, you're like, you know, I may have only kept 75 of the 80 things on my checklist for the day, but you know, I bet you I did better than that guy. So, if God looks at us in the end, you know, I may not have done everything, but I've done better than that guy. Sure, better than that guy. Look Jesus told a parable about this, right? The Pharisee and the tax collector, they both go up to the temple to pray. The Pharisee stands there and he says, Lord, I thank you that I am not like other men, but I fast and I tithe. I'm certainly not like this tax collector. And the tax collector is off by himself, afraid to lift up his eyes to heaven, and he says, Lord, have mercy on me, a sinner. And Jesus says, I tell you, that man goes away justified rather than the other, because self-righteousness is a trap, and it's a trap every one of us can fall into. Because let me tell you something, the only people that are harder to reach with the true gospel than good people are religious people. And that brings us to our second point, the tragedy of misguided zeal. Picking up in verse 32, they have stumbled over the stumbling stone, as it is written, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God But not according to knowledge. You see, if a person is self-righteous, they're in a trap But you can bring the law of God to bear, and if if their only problem is a self-righteousness, they think they're basically a good person? The law of God can be used to bring conviction by the Holy Spirit, to show them that they're not actually a good person. And we all kind of know that about ourselves anyway. We just kind of lie to ourselves and think that we're okay. When the law of God comes to bear, it exposes. But someone who's religious, Someone who is zealously religious, committedly religious, they think they've got the answer. They think they know the truth. They think they've got the way to God. And if it's not true, if it's not according to knowledge, if it's not from God, but it's man-made religion The more committed they are, the more zealous they are, the harder they are to reach. And that's the tragedy of misguided zeal. Israel's walking along their road of determined self-righteousness And Paul quotes scripture that says, Of God, I've laid in Zion a stone. I've laid in Zion a cornerstone, but also a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. If you're walking along on a path of self-righteousness and you're puffed up with pride, And the rock of ages comes into your pathway, you will stumble and you will fall. And that's exactly what happened to Israel. The rock of ages comes into the world. The very rock that had followed Israel in the desert wilderness, out of whom living water came to quench their thirst. This stone, Jesus Christ, came into the world and they stumbled over him. Why? Because he didn't meet their expectations. He wouldn't do what they wanted him to do in their zeal. That's why Palm Sunday is a tragedy. I'm going to say something here, and I'm probably going to offend some people, and I apologize, but I have to say it. We don't do Palm Sunday. You may have noticed. We don't have palms. We don't encourage you to wave the palms. We don't then take those palms and burn them up and make ashes for use the next year on Ash Wednesday. Why? Palm Sunday is a tragedy. The people who were waving the palms and shouting Hosanna were wrong. They were misguided in their zeal. This is the misguided zeal we're talking about. They said, Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Now when the religious leaders came and said, hey, you've got to quiet these people down Jesus did say they have to cry out, because if they don't cry out, the very stones would cry out. In a sense, it was right that Jesus would be praised and welcomed as he's riding into Jerusalem, but the crowd couldn't be more wrong. in what they were thinking as they were waving those palms. The palm was a symbol, had become a symbol of Jewish independence, of Jewish national independence. They had minted it on coins when they had a time of independence. So when they're waving the palms and they're laying down the palms, what they're saying is, here comes the Messiah to deliver us from these Romans. Which is why the religious leaders wanted them to be quiet, because they were afraid that if the Romans saw that, they would get all up in arms and they would crack down on them, which could have happened. So Palm Sunday is really a tragedy of misguided zeal because the people are shouting the wrong Hosanna. Hosanna, what does Hosanna mean? It means save us now. It sort of became just a praise, another way of saying hallelujah, but that's not what it actually means. Hosanna means save us now or save now. The salvation they needed was from themselves. And they thought they needed salvation from the Romans. And this is why, this is why, by the way, where's the first place Jesus goes after he rides into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday? He goes to the temple. He doesn't go to the praetorium to confront the Roman government. He goes to the temple. He overturns the tables of the money changers and the sellers of animals because he's confronting them in their misguided zeal. You set up this whole bazaar to sell the perfect animals and have the right coinage. You're using it to fleece people of their money, but you also think that this is getting you favor with God. Meanwhile, you've crowded out the whole courtyard where all the Gentiles are supposed to come and worship. The court of the Gentiles was a place for Gentiles to come and seek the Lord, but they turned it into a marketplace, into a bazaar. And so there was misguided zeal, and Jesus directly confronts that misguided zeal on Palm Sunday. Misguided zeal always takes religion, combines it with self-righteousness, and enlists God in the service of our own personal agenda. That can be done politically. That can be done politically When you wave the American flag and act like America is the kingdom of God on earth, and you think of course God's on the side of America and is going to fight for America in this world, whoa, slow down, back off. That's not in the Bible. It can be done personally when you think, well, obviously I'm pleasing to God, so God's going to give me wealth, and God's going to give me health, and God's going to give me all the good things that I'm looking for. It's a toxic combination when religious misguided zeal is combined with self-righteousness because we end up expecting God to serve our agenda. Rather than submitting ourselves to him. And that's what's going on on Palm Sunday. And that's what's still going on with the Jewish people. And that's the real reason why they rejected Jesus. They rejected him because he didn't attack the Romans like they wanted him to. Instead, he kept criticizing them for how they were falling short of what God expected of them because he was trying to Show them their sin so they would see their need for a savior. But notice this about Paul here. Notice this. This truth Of their stumbling over the stone and rejecting him does not make Paul angry. Look at the beginning of chapter 10. We talked about this last week, how this passage in Romans should remove all anti-Semitism from the mind and heart and life of any Christian. Paul does not get angry. He does not say, oh, they've rejected their Messiah. How dare they? They're Jesus killers. They just need to be punished. No. What does he say? Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. When he sees their misguided zeal, he's heartbroken for them, not angry at them. Whenever we see unbelievers who don't know the Lord Especially when we see self-righteous, religious people who have a misguided zeal That could be Muslims, it could be Jews, it could be Hindus, it could be Jehovah's Witnesses or Mormons they have. A zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. And because of their religious zeal and their self-righteousness, they're rejecting Jesus, the rock of ages, and they're instead stumbling over him. Our response should not be anger and indignation. Our response should be pity and prayer. We should not shake our fists at them. We should get on our knees for them. Because we have Eternal life, because God has brought us to faith in Christ. And they need what we have. And it is sad that they're rejecting him. And we should pray, just as Paul's praying, not saying, oh, they deserve it. They're so hostile to Christianity. They're so self-righteous, they're so wrong. No. They are wrong. Because the other thing that's confronts so there's two The Bible's always confronting us in our errors, in our natural human errors. There's two natural human errors that our culture makes that it would want to condition us to make as well. These two errors are the people who are who are wrong are to be hated. They're the enemy. That's the one wrong error that Scripture is here confronting us with. The Apostle Paul says, I my prayer for them is that they may be saved. The other wrong is what, the other message we get from the culture sometimes, which is it doesn't really matter what you believe as long as you're sincere. That's directly confronted here. It really does matter what you believe. You have to believe the truth. There's only one source of righteousness. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're not in him, you're not righteous. And so it matters what you believe. But we don't need to judge or condemn. We need to pray and pity and proclaim. There you get your three P's. That's a preacher's thing for you. We need to pray, we need to pity, we need to proclaim the gospel. We get to the heart of the theology of this passage with the last two verses. 4. Being ignorant of the righteousness of God and wanting to establish their own They did not submit to God's righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. This little word end. It means it's a word mean the word is telos. Um and we have our word telescope, which means you're trying to look out far. It means the end as in the destination, as in the finish line, as in the goal. That's what telos means. Christ is the finish line. of the law of righteousness for everyone who believes. Because if you're following the law of righteousness, the law of Moses, by faith, you're going to see that Jesus is the fulfillment of it, and you're going to rest in him. You're going to rest in him. But if you don't see that, if you're ignorant of the righteousness of God, and you're seeking to establish your own, you're not going to submit to God's righteousness. What is this righteousness of God that they're ignorant of? Well, just for a second with me Turn back to Romans chapter 1, because this is actually the main theme of this whole book, and I told you it was at the beginning. Way back in Romans 1, 16 and 17. We have the thesis statement for the book of Romans. It's what Romans is really all about. For I am not ashamed of the gospel. For it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Gentile or the Greek. For in it That is, in the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith. As it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. And when we pre- when I preached this, I told you I think that from faith for faith means the righteousness of God is revealed from the faithfulness of God. For our faith and our trust in him. The same word pistos in Greek means both faithfulness and faith. Trust. Trustworthiness as well as trust So from the trustworthiness of God, from the faithfulness of God, comes the righteousness of God. That's Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the righteousness of God. He is. He's given in fulfillment of all the promises of God to prove that God is faithful, God is trustworthy, God keeps his word, he gives his one and only son, and then he's received by us by faith. So, when Paul says they're ignorant of the righteousness of God, they don't know that Jesus Christ is the righteousness of God. And if you don't know that, what are you going to do? You're going to try to establish your own righteousness. Well, if you're trying to establish your own righteousness, what are you doing? You're not submitting to the righteousness of God. Got two illustrations of this. One is sillier and the other one I I think is more profound, but it was silly, silly illustration of this. What do you mean If you're trying to establish your own, you're not submitting to the righteousness of God. We drive older vehicles in our family. Our older vehicles have lots of miles on them, and that means that sometimes they need repair One of them is in the shop getting repaired right now. Sometimes I get frustrated at how much it costs to fix cars, get cars fixed But I am not a master mechanic. I'm not even an amateur mechanic. So you could imagine me, you know, something breaks on one of my vehicles and I go out to the driveway with the tools that I have and I'm trying to fix it I don't really know what I'm doing. I didn't even look it up on YouTube. I'm just trying to fix it. Doing my own thing. All of a sudden, a master mechanic pulls up. Unloads his wonderful tools, comes up to me and says, Jason, let me let me do this. What if I were to say, that's alright, I got it? No, no, no. I I I I I'll figure this out. Just give me enough time and I'll figure this out. Don't worry, I don't need your help. What's gonna happen? Yeah, my son is knows exactly what's gonna happen. Disaster is going to happen, right? Something on that car is gonna fall apart. Because what I'm doing at the same time, as long as I'm saying, I got it, I know what I'm doing, I got this, I'll figure it out. I'm trying to establish my own righteousness. And I'm denying the help that's given to me. It makes all the difference in the world Whether we understand the law of God as a picture and a promise of Jesus, or whether we think it's a way for us to achieve salvation ourselves. The prophet Isaiah in Isaiah 6, he is the most religious man in the whole nation of Israel, which means he's the most religious God worshiper on the whole planet. He's had a ministry where he's been used by God to pronounce woes upon people, and he comes into the temple in in Isaiah chapter 6, and he's been a priest. He's being called to be a prophet. He's a deeply religious man. I'm sure if you knew him, you would say he was a good man. But when he's confronted by the holiness of God, When he goes to the temple and he gets a vision of the Lord, he says, I saw the Lord high and lifted up and seated on the throne, and the train of his robe filled the temple. When he saw the glory of God, the only thing he could do is say, Woe is me, for I am undone, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, and my eyes have seen the Lord. the King of Glory. He had no hope. The only hope for him was that God would make atonement, sends one of the angels to get a coal from the altar where sacrifice is made. and comes to touch the lips and God says, this has touched your lips. Your sin is atoned for. The only hope is atonement. Not more self-righteousness. Then he was ready to be used by God when no longer a righteous man, no longer a good man, no longer just a dutifully religious man, but a man who has been atoned for. That's why when Jesus came into the world and he comes into Jerusalem on that first Palm Sunday, he's not going to lead a political revolution. He's going to take up a cross. Because he comes not as a political war hero, he comes as a sacrifice to make atonement for our sin. And that tells us that what we need is righteousness, not political freedom. And Jesus comes as the once-for-all sacrifice to satisfy divine justice, to remove the guilt of all of God's people for all time. And that is the end. That is the goal. That is the termination of the law. But if you don't see that, you're going to keep trying to do it on your own. Now, if I'm trying to fix my car, I know enough and I have enough tools that I might do a passable job. So that wasn't maybe the best illustration. Here's one that's better. Trying to earn self-righteousness by the law is like going to Ocean City, Maryland, standing on the beach, looking out over the Atlantic Ocean and saying, I'd like to go to France. I think I'll swim You could start. You could make some progress. If you're a really good swimmer, you might last a little while. But if you're determined that you're going to swim your way to France, you are going to die. But if a boat comes along and says, Where are you trying to go? France. And it's a big ocean going liner, and they say, get on board, we're going there, I'll take you there. If you say, no, that's all right, I got it, I'll get there eventually, you're you have a death wish. That's what our situation is before God. There's absolutely no way we can measure up. Oh God, if you just give me enough time, I'll figure it out. Oh God, if you're just patient with me, I'll get it right. Oh God, it's okay. Here's what some of us do. Some of us have gotten on the ship, and we are bound for glory because of the Lord Jesus Christ, who is our righteousness. But sometimes we wake up in the morning and we jump back in the water and we start swimming for France We act like we're basically good. We act like we can do it. We act like we got this. And, you know, God lets us try that for a while. And then when we're gasping and drowning, he yanks us out and says, Look, this is where you can be. Now there is a pool on the ship. And you can swim in that to get your exercise. This is my the law of God, the Ten Commandments are still good, right? We should still we should still swim. But we're not swimming to save ourselves. We're not swimming to get to France We're swimming because it's good exercise and it will help us be healthier and God loves us. And so He's given us a pool on the ship. But we stay on the ship because it's only Jesus who gets us. Only God's righteousness is good enough to save us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for the gift of life that we have in your Son, Jesus Christ. Hmm. It's amazing that you would love us so much. That you would come to our rescue. At the cost of your Son. Lord Jesus, it's amazing that you would love us enough, that you would come to our rescue, even though it meant bearing all of our sin and all the wrath and curse of God that we deserve in your body on the cross. in intense suffering that we could never fully comprehend. As we celebrate and remember those things this week, we pray that you would help us to walk. By faith, trusting in Jesus, depending entirely upon your righteousness, and giving thanks to you. We pray this Father in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen