Let's turn to Psalm 23. You'll find it on page 458 if you want to use one of the church Bibles. Psalm 23 is a psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Let's pray. Father, what wonderful truth, what beautiful love is displayed for us in this familiar psalm May we see afresh your faithfulness, your goodness, your love, your wisdom, your power, your grace. May we see afresh the Lord Jesus. As we spend time in your word together this morning, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. It's always risky trying to tell someone all about something that is very familiar to them already. Right? If you had a favorite place to go and I was to tell you all about it, you would say, oh I know, I've been there a ton. I love it. Well, that's Psalm 23, isn't it? It is One of the most familiar and beloved passages in Scripture is undoubtedly the most famous poem in the history of the world. Many of us memorized it as small children. You've heard it, no doubt, at the funerals of loved ones. It's almost certainly been a source of great comfort and consolation to you in dark and difficult times. Psalm 23 is wonderful, and we all know it's wonderful, and yet sometimes things that are so familiar to us can hold depths of treasures that we've never seen before. We've looked at it and looked at it, and then we look at it again and still see something new. God's word is especially that way. I've read Psalm 23 dozens and dozens of times in my life. I taught through it line by line over weeks and months at the preschool chapel at New Covenant Christian School Several years ago. Jackson Troutman was one of my preschool students. So back when Jackson was four, uh, he heard from me about Psalm 23 time and time again. Karis Brown was also one of my preschool chapel students, and so I'm very familiar with Psalm 23 in doing it for preschool chapel. We memorized it together, so that gave me an opportunity to memorize it in the ESV to go along with the King James version that I memorized as a kid. And I've sung this, I've preached it, I've used it in counseling, and yet over the past couple of weeks, as I prepared to preach Psalm 23 God continued to reveal new and wonderful things out of this familiar passage in His Word. Been helped by David Gibson. Scottish Presbyterian pastor, he's written a wonderful book on Psalm 23. Christopher Ash has just come out with a new commentary set on the Psalms. Both of those were tremendous. I've seen so much wonderful truth and comfort in these verses that I just can't fit it into one sermon. Unless it was like a two-hour long sermon. So I thought it would be wise to break it up over a couple of weeks. So what we're going to do is this week, we're going to take a look at how the Good Shepherd leads his sheep and be comforted by the truth that he is with us. Next week I'm going to be away, we'll have a guest pre- The week after that, September 8th, we'll return to Psalm 23 and we'll focus on how the Good Shepherd feeds his sheep. And the truth that he is in us. And we're actually going to share in the Lord's table on that Sunday, the 8th. And then on the 15th, we will see how he keeps us, and that is, he protects us and corrects us. So he protects us from our enemies and he corrects us from our waywardness. So my invitation to you, as we're going to be in this psalm for three of the next four weeks, is if you haven't memorized it, or you haven't memorized it in the ESV, Go ahead and memorize it. Take time to meditate on it. And then, along with it, I would encourage you to memorize this very simple four-point outline That I used with the preschoolers, that I'm using again with you. And that is, I already said it, the Good Shepherd, our Good Shepherd, leads the sheep, feeds the sheep. protects the sheep and corrects the sheep. So he leaves, he feeds, he protects, and he corrects. So this week leads, and two weeks feeds, and the week after that protects and corrects. Let's begin. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. I mean, those are probably the nine most familiar words in the English language. People have been saying that for hundreds of years and been drawing great comfort from them. There are nine words in English. There are actually just four words in Hebrew. It's one of the shortest opening verses in the Psalms. It is a powerful statement that packs a lot into four little words. The Lord. My shepherd. No want, no lack. First, let's take a look at who our shepherd is. He is the Lord. The very first word in Hebrew is Yahweh, Jehovah, the Lord, the great I Am. This is the covenant name of the Lord. It's the Lord's relational name. It's who he is to his people. It's who he is for his people. And it is rooted in the encounter that Moses had at the burning bush where he saw and he heard this profound truth about God. You see, the burning bush was the visual demonstration of the name of the Lord that was spoken to him. when he asked, Who shall I say sent me? And the Lord said, say I am who I am. And so say that I am has sent you. Strange name. What does that mean? I am who I am. Well, the burning bush. It's on fire But the fire is not consuming the bush. How is that possible? Because the fire doesn't need anything. It doesn't need the fuel of the bush. It just burns with its own intensity. God is who He is. None of us can say, I am who I am, because of two things. First of all, you didn't make yourself who you are Who you are is a mix of genes that you inherited from your parents, for better or worse The way you were raised, the cultural environment you live in, the education that you received, the friends that you have It's been said that the five people that you spend the most time with are the ones who shape you into being the kind of person that you are. You are, in many ways, what you have been made to be and what you are being made to be. And the other truth Why we can't say I am who I am is that we are not now who we were five years ago, and we are not now who we will be five years from now. We're constantly changing, physically as well as spiritually. And those two things about us point to the point of this name for the Lord, and that is He is self-sufficient. He has the power of being and the character of who he is from within himself. He doesn't need anyone. He doesn't need anything. He is who he is. And the other thing is that in Hebrew, there's no tense associated with this verb. It's not in any particular tense. And so that means you could easily translate it as I was who I am or I am who I will be. Revelation picks up on this name of God and reflects it when it says, He's the one who is, and who was and who is to come, the Almighty. And Hebrews 13, 8 picks up on this aspect of the name of God when it says that Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. God needs nothing from anyone, and God never changes There is such deep comfort in that if that Lord is my shepherd. Because he's never going to run out of resources. He's never going to say, well, I'd like to help you, but I just can't because I didn't get enough income this month. Or I'd like to help you, but I just can't because I don't really know the answer to your question. God has all resource, all Being all power, all goodness, all wisdom in and of himself. He needs nothing from anyone. And he's never going to change his mind. He doesn't make promises and then The next year say, ah yeah, I know I said that, but I didn't really mean it. He never changes. He needs nothing, and he never changes. And the Lord is my shepherd. David here speaking very personally. God is spoken of throughout Scripture as the shepherd of Israel, the shepherd of his flock, the shepherd of his people collectively. This is one of the very few places. Especially in the Old Testament, where it's very personal, my shepherd, me, personally. And David, as an experienced shepherd, would know what a good shepherd does. He tends his sheep with personal care and self-sacrifice. He ensures they stay on the path that they need to be on and they don't wander astray. He feeds and waters them. He protects them from enemies. He pulls them back when they're wandering. He goes before them and prepares the way, clearing obstacles and enemies. He watches over them to make sure that none are missing. When Jesus came into the world, he said, I am the good shepherd in John chapter 10. And his audience then, well, they knew Psalm 23 even better than we do. Because it was a regular part of their lives to pray it and to sing it. So a month didn't go by in the life of a Jewish person in the first century without praying, singing, singing. Psalm 23. So when Jesus says, I am the good shepherd, they would immediately know, oh, he's the good shepherd. And in case they missed it, he also says in that same passage, I and the Father are one Jesus is the Lord who is our good shepherd. And they knew that. They understood what that meant because they immediately picked up stones to kill him for blasphemy for claiming to be one with the Father. But there's great comfort for us When Jesus says, I am the good shepherd, he means that he is the good shepherd of Psalm 23. The New Testament tells us that Jesus is the good shepherd. In John 10, that he is the great shepherd of the sheep in Hebrews 13, that he is the shepherd and overseer of our souls, as we confessed earlier in 1 Peter 2, that he is the chief shepherd in 1 Peter 5. And then the final time we're told about Jesus as our shepherd is in Revelation 7. For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water. Jesus is our good and great shepherd. He's the fulfillment of Psalm 23. He's the one who leads us and feeds us. He protects us and corrects us. And added to all the language of Psalm 23, Jesus in John 10 says, not only does the Good Shepherd lead and feed and protect and correct, but the Good Shepherd lays down his life for the The sheep willingly. This is what Jesus said about himself in John ten. He who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice, so there will be one flock and one shepherd. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one will snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. It's powerful. And you see the emphasis there is on how the Good Shepherd leads his sheep, and the sheep follow the shepherd, because we know his voice. So that's our focus today. In Psalm 23, we see five scenes of life that the Good Shepherd leads us through. First, he leads us in green pastures beside still waters. Second, he leads us in paths of righteousness. Third, he leads us through the valley of the shadow of death. Fourth, he leads us to a table prepared for us in the presence of our enemies. And fifth, he leads to He leads us to the house of the Lord to dwell there forever. So we're going to look briefly at each of these five places where our shepherd leads us. The first place where our shepherd leads is beside still waters. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside. still waters. He makes me lie down. Is both causative and continual He makes and keeps making and keeps making me lie down in green pasture. There's something important about this to note. Sheep do not naturally lie down in green pastures. Sheep are very jittery. They're very nervous animals. They're easily spooked. Because they're prey. And so they're normally just hyper-vigilant. And it's not hard to startle a flock of sheep. Especially if they're out in an open green pasture with no electric fence surrounding them, which is how we mostly see sheep today. So, to make them lie down, the shepherd has to give them a sense that they are secure, that he is watching over them. That they can in fact rest. There is in green pastures, these are the rich verdant pastures of springtime. There is food and there is rest. And because it's besides still waters, there is refreshment. We'll take a look at this next week when we talk about how he feeds us for two weeks from now. So, first and foremost, we need to see two things. One Our good shepherd leads us to good places. Life is good because Jesus is good to us. We need to see that. We need to believe that. I'm telling you, you follow Jesus when you hear his voice. The voice of the chattering heads in the world who never shut up, they want us to see that everything is always a catastrophe and an emergency. and it's all falling apart and it's all terrible. They want us to be afraid because people who are afraid are easily led astray. We need to realize that Jesus is good and life is good and we need to take advantage. We need to lie down when He makes us lie down and we need to rest in Him. We need to drink deeply when he leads us beside still waters. We need to praise him for his good provision. We need to see that life is good because Jesus is good, and we need to take full advantage of the goodness that Jesus leads us to. But he's not only good to us in providing a generously good life, but he's also good to us in leading us in paths of righteousness. The word paths here likely refers to cart paths or well-worn paths through the fields that direct the sheep in the right way to go. And you can imagine if there have been different carts that have come through in different places at different times and different directions, there would be a myriad of different confusing paths. But the Good Shepherd leads in paths of righteousness or the right paths, the way we should go. And it's a well-worn path because God marked it out in his law, and then Jesus walked it in his life. And so when we follow him in paths of righteousness, we are following after our good shepherd. We are walking in the path that he has worn out for us in his own life. Sheep are easily confused. They can be distracted very quickly. Start heading down the wrong path. We live in a world that's full of voices telling us which way we should go, how we should live, what we should value, what we should pursue. Some would lead us down the path of financial prosperity and career success at all costs. Others would lead us down the path of pleasing ourselves and doing what we want our way. Some would lead us down a path of hyper-political involvement or social justice or some other cause of the day. Jesus calls us to follow him on paths of righteousness for his name's sake. That the world might see Jesus in us because we're on his path. And he told us that the path is marked out by genuine love. First, love for God with all our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and then love for our neighbors as ourselves. It is the pathway of love. But we have to be careful. Because it's easy for us to say, okay, so following Jesus means living a life of love. I just need to love and I'll be on the right path. That's true But we need to make sure we're allowing God to define what love is and isn't, and allowing Jesus to demonstrate what love is and what love isn't. Jesus was not afraid to confront sin. Jesus knew that loving people means calling them out of their sin because their sin is destroying them. But love also gives generously. Love feeds those who are hungry. Love teaches those who are ignorant. Love Shows the character of God in action. Because love flows from the holy character of God and is in harmony with all of his other attributes, his holiness, his justice, his truth, his righteousness. And to see it, we really need to look at Jesus. And to see that, we really need to make sure we're spending time in the Gospels. Learning from Him and learning how to follow Him in paths of righteousness. Because there's even people who will say, Oh, we just need to love, and we just need to love like Jesus loved, but then they even still allow that to be defined. By the world and the culture, and not by the actual Jesus that we find in the Gospels. He leads us for His name's sake. Because his name alone is the name above every name. And his name alone is the only name by which we can be saved. His name is salvation. People will see him more clearly in us as we are following him in paths of righteousness more closely and faithfully. And what brings him glory also brings us good. Because these are paths of of eternal life. These are paths that we should go in. These are the paths that lead us in the way we need to go, even when they lead us through the valley of the shadow of death. And that's our third scene. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. This is probably the reason why you've heard Psalm 23 at a funeral. It's interesting, did a little bit of study in apparently Psalm 23 wasn't really used very commonly in funeral Until after the Civil War in America. And that's when it sort of became used that way. And this is probably why. Lead me through the valley of the shadow of death. It's the opposite place of green pastures and still waters. It's a place where we might wonder why our good shepherd takes us down this path. Is this really the path of righteousness that would lead through such a dark place? It's not a welcoming place. It's not a safe place. It's not a place where we would freely choose to go. Unless we absolutely needed to. And so if we trust our Heavenly Father, it's not a place where He leads us unless we need it. Sometimes we're on the path through the valley of the shadow of death because of the death of a loved one. Sometimes it's our own near-death experience, or a frightening cancer diagnosis, or major open heart surgery At other times, the deep darkness of this path through this valley is caused by sin. It might be a rebellious child who's walked away from the Lord. Or it might be a strained marriage. Or it might be the breakup of a family. Or addiction. Or a mental health struggle or a deep spiritual struggle like depression or paralyzing anxiety or loneliness. But when we are in the valley of the shadow of death, we are told That we need fear no evil Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. We don't need to be afraid. I think that connects back to the opening line: The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Now, what does that mean? I shall not want, and I will fear no evil. What do those things mean? Because we're we're sheep, we're following the good shepherd, and we have all sorts of wants. Don't we? I want lots of things. And sometimes the Lord is telling me, no. You can't have that thing that you want. Really, the better translation of the opening line is, I shall not be in want, or I shall not lack. By the Lord's grace, we never lack anything good that we need. We don't. Psalm 34 says, those who fear the Lord lack no good thing. We don't lack anything that would be truly good and helpful for us. And in the same way, I will fear no evil. Sometimes we get afraid. And there certainly is evil. I mean, he prepares a table in the presence of our enemies. So we have enemies. There is evil. But we need to fear no evil because our shepherd will keep us from all evil. That's why we had Psalm 121. We do not need to be afraid because He will not let anything get to us unless we need it. Ultimately, the reason why we need fear no evil is right at the very heart of this psalm. I will fear no evil, for You are with me. For you are with me. If you look at Psalm 23, that is the middle. That's the heart of this Psalm. That is the comfort of this psalm. It's the anchor for David. It's the anchor for us. It's the source of all of our peace, joy, and confidence that echoes in every line. of this psalm, that God is with us. I've said before, you can actually summarize the whole Bible in one word. Emmanuel. God with us. The whole story of the Bible, the entire story of the Bible is a story of how people in the beginning were created to be with God and God with them, but then they lost that fellowship through their sin, were driven out of God's presence And then God made a promise, and through the plan of redemption, has been working ever since then to bring his people back to himself so that he could be with us and we be with him. And at the end of the story, in Revelation 21, when it's all said and done, and we're in the new Jerusalem, is the new heavens, the new earth, we hear, behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them. as their God. Three times in one verse. With man, with them, with them. It's all because of Emmanuel, Jesus Jesus is God with us. He is Emmanuel because he is Jesus, the one who saves us from our sin. By removing our sin, he removes the barrier that keeps us from God. And when all sin is completely removed, we are with God forever. And that is the truth. And our hope from now till then is that as we walk the paths of righteousness in this life, whether those paths are in green pastures beside still waters, or those paths are in the valley of deep darkness, We are not alone. Our shepherd is with us. He leads us, but he doesn't lead us from a hundred miles ahead and say, hey, what's wrong with you people? Keep up. He's not leading us by remote control or by sending us text messages. He is with us In every step. That is why we do not need to be afraid It's not because we're so strong. It's not because there's not any real danger. It's because our good shepherd is with us. So no matter how weak and fearful we are, and no matter how fierce and terrifying our enemies are, because we are weak and fearful, and our enemies are fierce and terrifying, but they ain't terrifying. better than our shepherd. They're not stronger than the victorious king. One of the things I love about the fact that we're doing this as part of our summer series in the Psalms is that so often we hear Psalm 23 in isolation all by itself, right? But here we get to see how it's connected. This good shepherd who's with us, he is the victorious king. He has defeated all of his and our enemies. He trusted in his father. He was heard. He's the king of Psalms 20 and 21 and 22. He suffered and died so that he could bring us the victory, and there is no one who can defeat him, as he said. No one will snatch you out of my hand. It's the presence of our good shepherd, which allows us to do something that is very unnatural and very beautiful. And that is to walk. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death Do you know that if we were on our own, through the valley of the shadow of death, we would not be walking We would either freeze in panic and sit down and give up, or we would sprint through that as fast as we possibly could and probably get hurt because you can't see very much You can only walk through the valley of the shadow of death if your good shepherd is faithfully by your side. We need not fear. To show us his love and care as he walks with us, he leads us to a banqueting table. This banqueting table is in enemy territory. He leads us to the abundance of goodness that we'll take a look at in two weeks, but it is in the presence of our enemies. There's tension in this psalm between the green pastures and the valley of the shadow of death, and there's tension between a table prepared and in the presence of my enemies. We live our lives. You and I, if you are a believer in Jesus Christ, if you are one of his sheep. We live our lives as dearly loved, redeemed, and adopted children of God. We live our lives under the sovereign, leading hand of our good shepherd, but we also live our lives in enemy territory. territory. The enemy has been been defeated, the battle's been won, but the enemy still fights. That lion is still on the prowl, looking for someone to devour, and we need to see Stay close and trust our Good Shepherd through every season of life. The final scene we have in Psalm 23. Is of our good shepherd leading us all the way home to his house forever. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I want to say a word about goodness and mercy shall follow me. It's actually The King James established such a wonderful rendition of Psalm 23 that is so familiar to all of us. That the translators of the ESV stuck with a lot of that language, which I was thankful for when I decided to re-memorize it in the ESV, that much of it's the same as the King James. But actually here, follow is not a great translation of this word. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me. Follow Is too weak to express what's being shown here. A better translation is: surely goodness and mercy shall pursue me all the days of my life. To picture it, the Lord is our good shepherd, and He's leading us, and we follow His voice. But goodness and mercy are His sheepdogs And they are following after us to make sure we don't get too far behind. It's interesting to have sheepdogs named Goodness and Mercy. But they are. The goodness of the Lord is his kindness, his abundant and beautiful provision. His mercy is my favorite Hebrew word. It's Hasid. You might have wondered, wait a minute, how could we have the most famous of all psalms and it not have Hesed in it? Because you don't see steadfast love in the ESV translation. But here they went again with the traditional King James rendering of mercy. Here is Chesed right behind us every step of the way. Chesed is God's heart for us. This is one way to summarize. God is committed to treating us. Not as our sins deserve, but according to his love for us. Sometimes we live, we live in a place where we think, uh-oh, I've really messed up now And we're sort of waiting for the lightning to strike. Uh-oh. I messed up now. God's going to get me. No. Because God will not measure according to what your sins deserve. He will measure according to his love for you. When you need discipline, he will discipline you. But it's never punitive. Hear this child of God Jesus took all of the punishment that we deserve on himself on the cross. And when he said all the punishment, he meant all the punishment. When Jesus said it is finished, he meant it is finished. God never punishes you for what your sins deserve. That was done by Jesus. To the full. God disciplines you when you need it for your good. And we'll look at that in our third sermon in this series. He will correct you Because he loves you, but he never, ever, ever approaches you and says, I think I'll treat you according to what your sins deserve. He's never measuring you up according to your sins and then acting out of that because Jesus took those away. He's always looking at you and saying, I'm going to treat you according to my love for you. My wise and powerful and generous and holy love for you And if you need a green pasture, I'll take you to the green pasture. And if you need to lie down, I'll make you lie down. That's what he has to do to me sometimes. You're done. And if if I need some time in the Valley of Deep Darkness because I've been a little bit wandery and a little bit cocky And I need to be staying a little closer to my good shepherd. He'll take me into that valley of deep darkness, so I'll stay closer to him. And when I'm hungry, he will feed me. And when I'm thirsty, he will give me living water Because he's always going to treat me according to his love for me. And never as my sins deserve. That is Hasid. And that is the heart of God for you. Surely goodness and happiness Shall pursue me all the days of my life. That there's a certainty and there's a constancy in that. Surely all the days of my life. The days when you wake up and God feels a million miles away. Don't judge that by your feelings. Remember it surely. And it's all the days of my life And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Jesus wants us home. He wants us in his house. Jeremiah was gone all this past week at Boardwalk Chapel. He was gone the week before that at At River Valley Ranch. And it's good. Love seeing the Lord use him in ministry, and it's great. Catherine was gone like four weeks this summer at River Valley Ranch, but it's so good to have them home. Right? And again, amen from the moms. It is good to have them home. Like we want our kids home and we want them at our table. Why? Because we love them. God loves us even more. Even more than we could ever begin to love our children. God loves us more. Jesus wants us in his house. He wants us at his table. Jesus told us in John 14, In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go and prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am, you may be also. So let's follow our good shepherd. Let's trust his leading and walk in his paths wherever they lead. Let's realize that in Him we lack nothing that we truly need, and we have nothing that we need to truly fear. When voices of entitlement would tell us that we ought to have something that we don't have, or when voices of fear want us to live in panic, let's listen for his voice. In his word, in his worship, and let's follow only Him. Amen. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you are the good shepherd. So good. Lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake Bring us to the green pastures and the still waters when our when our souls are weary and in need of refreshment. And let us walk through the dark valley when it's time for us to stick close to you. Lead us and feed us. Protect us and correct us in your love. We ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.