Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you. We are in our 19th week together Day two, and we're in Mark 14. In Mark 14, verses 1 to 25, we're asking a very important question. What should our attitude toward money be? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, which is truth. It is powerful. It cuts. One of the areas of our lives that needs the examination of your word is our attitude toward money. So we pray that you would be our teacher and our guide, show us our heart, and then show us our Savior. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Mark 14, 1-25. It was now two days before the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread, and the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to arrest him by stealth and kill him. for they said not during the feast, lest there be an uproar from the people. And while he was at Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, as he was reclining at table, a woman came with an alabaster flask of pure nard. very costly, and she broke the flask and poured it over his head. There were some who said to themselves indignantly, Why was this ointment wasted like that For this ointment could have been sold for more than three hundred deneri and given to the poor. And they scolded her. But Jesus said, Leave her alone Why do you trouble her? She has done a beautiful thing to me, for you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want you can do good for them, but you will not always have me. She has done what she could. She has anointed my body beforehand for burial, and truly I say to you, wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will be told in memory of her. Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests in order to betray him to them. And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money, and sought and he sought an opportunity to betray him. And on the first day of unleavened bread, when they sacrificed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him And wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, the teacher says, Where is my guest room that I may eat the Passover with my disciples? And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready there prepared for us And the disciples set out and went to the city and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover. And when it was evening he came with the twelve, and as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me They began to be sorrowful, and to say to him, one after another, Is it I? He said to them, It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread into the dish with me For the Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it, broke it and gave it to them and said, Take, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they drank they all drank of it. And he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. Truly I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. Some people love money and will do almost anything to earn it. Other people see money as evil and think it should all be given away as soon as we get it. Still others see money as a tool to be used to accomplish what you want. Which of these attitudes is right? Is any of them right? In today's passage, we can see three different people's attitudes toward their wealth. First, Judas Iscariot loved money. John 12 6 tells us that Judas was the one who objected strongly to the waste of the alabaster jar of ointment. John tells us that Judas Iscariot was not His concern was not for the poor, but rather because he was a thief and having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it We know that the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil, according to 1 Timothy 6. 10. So we can see in Judas Iscariot an example of what happens when the love of money controls someone's life Judas goes from stealing to lying to betraying the Lord to deep despair and suicide, all driven by the love of money. Secondly, the chief priests used money to advance their selfish agenda. The chief priests knew how to make money. Their whole money-making operation in the temple was confronted by Jesus when he drove out the money changers They made money for a purpose, though. They used their wealth to advance their agendas and secure their positions of power. They were more concerned with pride and power than with money itself. They were happy to pay Judas money to get what they wanted. to get rid of Jesus. And the third person we see is Mary of Bethany, the sister of Lazarus, who used her wealth to worship and serve Jesus. The woman with the alabaster jar is not named in Mark's Gospel, but we know she is Mary, sister of Martha and Lazarus. She takes a very expensive jar of ointment, worth a year's wages, and wastes it on Jesus. While the disciples rebuke such waste, Jesus commends her for anointing his body for burial. This would be the only anointing Jesus' body would receive. Mary would come to Jesus' tomb to anoint him. but he would not be there. From these three people we can see clearly that money is not an end in itself. It is not to be the object of our desires and our affections. The love of money will destroy us. Money is also not to be a tool to advance our selfish agendas, our desire for pride and for power to the world. These are the only possible options for money. But some people reacting against this think that money itself is evil and that having money is wrong. But Jesus never says this. Money is a gift from God. and is to be used for God and to advance his kingdom, serve his purposes, and worship him. In this way, money is a tool, but not to serve us. Like everything in our lives, it is a means of serving him. Let's turn our attention to Psalm 93 now. The Lord reigns. He is robed in majesty. The Lord is robed. He has put on strength as his belt. Yes, the world is established. It shall never be moved. Your throne is established from of old. You are from everlasting. The floods have lifted up, O Lord. The floods have lifted up their voice. The floods lift up their roaring. Mightier than the thunders of many waters, mightier than the waves of the sea, the Lord on high is mighty. Your decrees are very trustworthy. Holiness befits your house, O Lord, forevermore. Let's pray. Holiness befits your house, O Lord. You are mighty. You are enthroned in majesty. Everything we have is a gift from you. Everything we have is to be used to glorify you. Our lives, our breath, our gifts, our opportunities, our time, our treasure. It's a stewardship, it's a trust. It's given from you to us to be given back to you. For from you and through you and to you are all things to you be the glory forever. Amen. Help us to serve that way. Like Mary, like those who understand that everything they have is a gift, and everything they have is to be used for your glory. May we do that sincerely from the heart with joy and gratitude. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. Hope you can join me again tomorrow. As always, have a blessed day in the Lord