Turn with me please to Isaiah fifty-three. Our focus today is going to be on verses ten through twelve, which is the triumphant Conclusion, the final stanza of this great suffering servant song, the suffering and satisfied servant. I'm going to start reading in verse 4 just to remind ourselves of what we learned last week. And then we'll notice the turn that comes in verse 10. This is God's word, Isaiah 53, 4 to 12. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted. Yet he opened not his mouth like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgressions of my people? And they made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. And when his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring He shall prolong his days. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul. He shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous? And he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many And he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors. Yet he bore the sin of many. And makes intercession for the transgressors. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that your Your son, the servant of the Lord, the Lord Jesus Christ, not only suffered for our sins, but was satisfied Satisfied and saw the light of life and lives forevermore and reigns over all and is coming again We pray that you would give us a clearer vision of Jesus and of who we are in Jesus that we might live as those who belong. And who understand what it means to belong to this wonderful Savior, who has conquered sin and death for us. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Jesus' name, Amen. Very often in life we we can get confused and overwhelmed by things that are going on that we don't understand. That we don't welcome and we can ask in agony, why? Why is this happening? And the truth is that not only would the answer to that question probably be beyond our comprehension But also we need to realize there's not a single answer to that question most of the time. The reason why it's happening is multiple. There are multiple people who are acting for different purposes, and God is superintending over all things according to his wise, holy, and loving providence, and even in that he has different things that he He's doing for different people in different ways, even through the same series of events. We're in a position where we don't know his purposes. We know the revealed will of God in Scripture, we know his character, we know his saving work, we know what he's done to keep all of his promises in Christ, but we don't understand we're not given a roadmap of the ways of his providence. If we were, we wouldn't be able to read it anyway. It would be so far beyond our ability to even begin to comprehend even the smallest parts of it. And so God in His grace just says, trust me. I am in control. I know what I'm doing. I've shown how much I love you. I am leading you through this. We see examples of this in Scripture so that we can understand what it looks like in someone's life. Classic example is the story of Joseph in the book of Genesis. Joseph The favored son of his father Jacob. Probably wisdom there for parents not to be so obvious in showing favoritism. But his brothers resented him, resented his relationship that he had with his father, and the position he had even within the family, even though he was younger than most of them. So in their resentment, they were going to kill him. And then they decide at the last minute, well, let's not kill him. We can make some money off this deal, and let's just sell him into slavery. And they sell him into slavery, and he goes, and I mean this is completely cut off from everyone he knows, sent to a foreign land, sold as a slave to one of the most powerful people in the world But he trusts God. And then he's falsely accused by Potiphar's wife of trying to sexually assault her, which he did not do, and he's thrown in prison for it, and prison was Not a lot of fun. And he's there for years. Why? He could have asked easily, why, Lord? But he continued to trust the Lord. He continued to seek to be faithful wherever he was. One thing we're told about Joseph, he was faithful in Potiphar's house, he was faithful in jail. He continued to seek seek the Lord. It wasn't until years later that he was in a position to be prime minister of Egypt and then to save his family from a But even years after that, after he had saved his whole family, 70 people, from famine, brought them into Egypt. made sure they were well taken care of. Years later, Jacob dies, and the brothers are now thinking, okay, he's been Nurturing this bitterness and this desire for revenge against us all these years, so we better be ready. And they go pleading with him for their lives. And Joseph's response shows that he did not let bitterness. Grow in his heart. He said, As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good to bring it about that many people Should be kept alive as they are today. Do not be afraid. I said Joseph would have been so justified To let bitterness grow in his heart. Whenever we let bitterness grow in our heart, we are always justified in doing so, at least in our own mind. He doesn't deny that his brothers did great evil to him, that they intended evil against him. But he kept in mind the good sovereign purposes of God. And that kept him from getting bitter. The place we see this even more clearly is at the cross. You think about why did Jesus Diety. You know, we can give the Sunday school answer for God so loved the world that He gave His one and only Son God demonstrates his love for us and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us and all that's true. But you ask it on a human level, like, why why? This is the best guy who ever lived in the history of the world. He never did wrong to anybody. He why would he be So brutally mistreated, so horribly exposed. Why? Well, there's a lot of answers to that question. You could talk about Judas and how greedy he was And how he wanted to capitalize on his close relationship to Jesus, and so he sold him for thirty pieces of silver. You could talk about the chief priests and the Sanhedrin who wanted to get rid of Jesus Because Jesus had genuine spiritual authority and a growing popularity with the people, and he was a deep threat to them in their position Talk about Pontius Pilate. And what a coward he was that even though he knew Jesus was innocent, he just wanted to wash his hands of the whole business and appease the Jewish religious leadership, and so he allowed His own soldiers to beat him, to crush him, to crucify him. On a spiritual level, you could talk about Satan being at work. Going into Judas and getting him to betray Jesus because Satan wanted to get rid of this troublesome man. All of these people played a part in Jesus dying. And we could look at it from a human perspective and we could say be outraged and we could be angry, we could be upset. But when the suffering servant song is done spelling out what we looked at last week and what I just read to you again about how he was crushed and how he was pierced. And how he was oppressed and afflicted. He gets done with all of that. This third stanza begins by telling us so clearly. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He, the Father, has put him, the Son, to grief. And then it wasn't just the Father's will. It says in the third line of verse 10, when his soul makes an offering for guilt, that means Jesus himself offered himself up. So it was God's will. the Father's will, and it was the will of the Son. And if we understand that And we know it was for our salvation. Any bitterness, any desire for revenge, any sort of anger should be replaced with humility and gratitude. Wow, he did this willingly, he did this for me. Remember years ago when the Passion of the Christ came out, and there was a lot of concern that it was going to lead to an anti-Semitic backlash. You guys remember that talk? Like, oh man, it's gonna lead to waves of anti-Semitism. And there was a reason for that, because in the history of uh of of Christian Europe there had been a history that people would see passion plays of of the crucifixion of Jesus and they would immediately get angry. At the Jewish people, and they would go to the Jewish ghettos and to the Jewish communities and they would sometimes burn down their houses and drive them out of the land because they were just saying, How dare you do that to our Lord? Totally missed the whole point. Totally missed the whole point, that it was for our sins and our transgressions, and that he was willing. But we do that too. Whenever we get angry and bitter. About whatever it is. We're doing the same thing. We're missing the fact that God is good. And that God is in control, and that He has good for us in this if we will be humble and thankful and learned. There's a lot to learn in this last stanza. It's powerful. The vocabulary even here is is full of meaning. The first line, yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. Crush is the word that's used for crushing olives to make olive oil out of them, or crushing grapes to make wine out of them. It's that pressing. Of that pressure. And that reminds me, if it's the word of crushing olives to make olive oil, Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, when he was in agony in prayer, where was he? He was in the garden of Gethsemane. You know what Gethsemane is? The place of the olive press. That's what it means. There's an olive orchard there on the hillside. There's still an olive orchard there. But there was an olive press. So the olives would be taken off the tree and they'd be pressed. They'd be crushed. And that's where Jesus fell on his face and prayed. Father, if it is possible, take this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but your will be done. And he agonized so much that his sweat became drops of blood. He was being crushed by the weight of our sin there. But you know, olives, we use olive oil for cooking mostly. It's a good cooking medium. But in the ancient world, it wasn't primarily used for cooking. Its primary use was to bring light into the darkness. The most common way to light a house was with an olive oil lamp. Or another use of it was to anoint people for ministry. Remember that Jesus is the Messiah, the anointed one. And that we are in him. We receive the Holy Spirit by being in him. So this picture of Jesus being crushed like an olive to bring light to the world, to bring the Holy Spirit to his people. And when it says his soul makes an offering for guilt, we can misunderstand that a little bit because of the word soul and how we use that in English. Soul here, the original in the Hebrew, doesn't mean the spirit, the non-material part. It just means the self. It means the life. And so another way that you could translate this is that he made himself A guilt offering. Offering for guilt is the same word as the Old Testament sacrificial system when it talks about making a guilt offering. He makes himself a guilt offering. Think about that. He prepared himself in that garden to go through with what he had committed to doing before the foundation of the world, that he would give himself up freely for us, to be made sin for us. But then right after that, right after, when his soul makes an offering for sin, or when he makes himself a guilt offering, sin offering. What do we see? He shall see his offspring. He shall prolong his days. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see. and be satisfied. Twice in those next three lines, he shall see. Now that is not something that you say about a dead man. It's clear enough in the suffering servant song that Jesus is dead by this point. If you missed it, it's spelled out as clearly as can be in verses eight and nine. He was cut off out of the land of the living. stricken for the transgression of my people, and they made his grave with the wicked and with the rich man in his death. Clear as can be, he's dead. But now he shall see. He shall see. That requires a resurrection. Requires a resurrection. He shall see his offspring. He shall prolong his days. He shall see and be satisfied. All because he rose again from the dead. There's three things I want to focus on that he Jesus experienced after he rose again from the dead. He sees his offspring, he prolongs his days, the will of God prospers in his hands. All of these, we're told, come out of the anguish of his Soul, and again, soul meaning life. Out of all that we read about earlier, being crushed, oppressed, afflicted, pierced, out of all of that anguish of his life comes resurrection. First, he sees his offspring. What did Jesus do when he rose again from the dead? First of all, he hung around the grave long enough to have a conversation with Mary Magdalene and let her know that he was alive. But then he shows up in the upper room, even though it's locked, he still comes in, so that he can be among his people. And he can show himself to them and he can proclaim his victory over death to his people. And then he comes back a week later, the next Lord's day, he comes back to show himself to Thomas. Thomas, who we call the doubter, who becomes Thomas the confessor, because he is the one who says the strongest proclamation of faith when he falls down and says, My Lord and my God. And then later he shows up on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, where he lovingly restores Peter to his place of ministry. He Paul tells us he met with 500 brothers at one time. What do we see here? He sees his offspring means the living Christ, the resurrected Christ, loves to be with his people. And he still meets with us every Lord's day. He loves to be with his people. And it says that he's satisfied. He shall see his offspring, and then he shall see and be satisfied. In salvation, we are saved by being united to Christ. All of our sin put on him, all of his righteousness given to us because we're united to him. We're made his and he's made ours forever That's our salvation. And sometimes we can think in that, well, that's great for me, but not such a great deal for him. He got the short end of the stick on that one, surely. I mean I get Jesus, I get forgiveness, I get righteousness, I get peace with God, I get eternal life. What did he get? All of my sin and all of my junk. Well, but that's not the end of the story. He sees us, and he is satisfied with us. We are, the Bible says we are his inheritance. And when he inherits us, he doesn't look at it and say, come on. Is this the best you got? He sees us and he says, yes, these are my people. I am satisfied in them. I delight in them. He prolongs his days. Jesus lives forever, he's living forever, he's secured eternal life for all who belong to him. He fulfills part of what he does is fulfill the promise that was given to David that, humanly speaking, was an impossible promise. You remember what God promised David, I'm going to make you a house? But then he said, one of your offspring will sit on your throne over God's people forever. And and some people thought, well, maybe that's Solomon or maybe it's some other king after the exile and return from Babylon. A lot of people thought, well, maybe it'll be zerubbable and they all missed the point. God said forever. I've been to King David's tomb, supposedly. But we know he died and was buried. And Solomon died and was buried. And Zerubabul died and was buried. But I'm in the Jesus' tomb and it's empty. Because he alone lives forever. I remember what he told Bartha at the grave of Lazarus, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? Do you believe this? He's alive forevermore. And if we're in him and he's in us, we live forever in him. Even when we die, we live forever in him. What's it mean for us, practically speaking? How does that change our lives in this world to know, to know that when we die It will be like falling asleep in this life and waking up to eternal joy and glory such as no mind has ever imagined. How does that change today and tomorrow? Well, let me give you what Paul said about how it changes. Colossians 3, Paul says this, if then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is. Seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on the things that are above, not on the things that are on earth, for you have died. And your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. We're here in this world for however many days the Lord has assigned to us, but we're seated with Christ in heaven forever. The days we have here are limited. The amount of good we can do here is limited. The amount of treasure we can accumulate here is very limited and very temporary. But we are seated with Christ in heaven forever. And the amount of spiritual good we can do in Christ would last forever. It would be of eternal value. It was uh C. T. Studd, famous missionary, who said, only one life will soon be passed. Only what's done for Christ will last. So we can chase the next promotion, we can chase the next pay raise, we can chase the next vacation or the newer car. Or we can put our eyes on Christ and set our minds on Christ and say, Lord, what would you have me do for your kingdom? What would you have me do for your glory? How would you have me live for eternity today? And the third thing we're told about Jesus and his resurrection is that the will of God prospers in his hand. You know that means we should never be frustrated. If we believe that, if we believe the will of God prospers in the hand of the risen and exalted Christ. The will of God prospers in his hand. We should never be frustrated by anything that we see happening in this world. We know the one who's in charge Jesus accomplished our redemption on the cross and in his resurrection. He reigns over God's kingdom. He's King of kings and Lord of Lords. What is the will of God? Well we've told what we're told by Jesus right before he left what the will of God is. Go and make disciples of all nations. Go and teach them, baptize them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Teach them to obey all that I've commanded you. Proclaim the gospel to every creature under heaven. Be my witnesses in Jerusalem and Judea and to the ends of the earth. We know what the will of God is. That is to spread the kingdom of God through the proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And Christ is accomplishing that purpose. Even when, from a human perspective, it looks like he's not. He is I'll give you a couple of current examples. Haiti. We've been praying for Haiti for a long time. And there are times when I feel frustrated about what's happening in Haiti. You know, the UN's supposed to send all these peacekeeping troops and they've got some over there, but they're outnumbered by the gangs like ten to one is ridiculous. They can barely secure a little area in the Capitol and all these gangs are carrying out these kidnappings. But you know, Christ is still working. He's still shining his light. People are still coming to faith in Christ. The work of God's kingdom is continuing. Jesus is still at work. Concerned, yes. Burdened to pray, yes. But frustrated, never. Never. One of my favorite examples from history, 20th century history, is what happened in China. I've shared this story with you before, but it's good to be reminded of these things. When Mao Tse Dung began his real crackdown on foreign culture, the Cultural Revolution. Estimates are there were maybe half a million Christians in China. About half of those were killed immediately, and about the other half were then sent into prison work camps, or they were just old ladies that they left alone. just a grandma, leave her alone, it doesn't matter. That was in the 1950s. In the late 1970s, when China opened up again. And they began to sort of look around and see, estimates were that there were 10 million Christians in China, from 250,000 in 25 years. How does that happen? Well, in the 80s and 90s, when they were asking people, how did you come to know Christ when Christianity has been illegal? So many of them would give the same kind of testimony. Well, my grandmother was praying for me My grandmother was praying for me. See, let's left the old ladies alone, because what harm can they do? Well, they can pray. And God can answer those prayers and save millions. And today, we don't know how many Christians there are in China, but it's probably in excess of fifty to seventy million, maybe as high as a hundred million. There may be more evangelical Christians in China than any other country in the world. Iran is ever since the Iranian revolution in 79 and uh a lot of people left. Because of the takeover of the Ayatollahs. Christianity has been spreading in Iran. You can hardly go to a corner of Iran where there's not some Christian church gathering together for worship. Most in secret. And we don't we don't have good estimates because it's illegal, most of the activity is going on, but somewhere between one and three million Iranians have come to Christ over the last 40 years. The will of God prospers in the hand of Jesus. We should never be frustrated. And the will of God will be accomplished finally and perfectly when Jesus comes again. That's seen in verse 12. We'll get there in a minute. But first we have verse 11. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied by his knowledge. shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities. By his knowledge means by his experiential knowledge, by what he lived through, by what he went through. What does that mean? Well, the sinless life that Jesus lived, the perfect obedience that he gave to his father, fulfilling all of the law perfectly. And then dying on the cross for our sin, making his life an offering for sin, a guilt offering, and then rising again from the dead by all of this Jesus, the righteous one, makes many to be accounted righteous. I'm going to get a little theological on you for a minute, but this is where we see one of the clearest statements. of the imputation of Christ's righteousness and justification by the imputation of Christ's righteousness. And this is so important. Sometimes people think theology is just a bunch of big words and abstract concepts. This is life. This is this makes all the difference in the world. There's two ways of understanding how Jesus, by his life, death, and resurrection, saves us, and they couldn't be more different from each other. One is what's sold here in verse 11, and that is Jesus is the righteous one. So let me ask you a question. If Jesus is the righteous one, how many righteous ones are there? What does Romans 3 say about everybody else? There is no one righteous, not even one. So one righteous one, everybody else not righteous, okay? Imputation says that Jesus takes his righteousness and it's accounted to us. We're accounted as righteous and he bears our iniquity. He takes all of our sin upon himself. The only righteousness you and I will ever have is the righteousness of Jesus. And we are the only sin that he ever has known. And there's an exchange there. That is the gospel. That is salvation. The other way of understanding it is through influence. And infusion of grace, so that gradually over time we are made righteous in our character and conduct. And if we get to be righteous enough in our own character and conduct, then we would be justified. Like, here's the bar, Jesus measured up, so now you have an example. And they'll say, by grace, the Holy Spirit will infuse that in us. But it's not until we grow to where we measure up That God will then say, okay, now you're righteous. How many of you think you got in there? Only one of these will give you peace and assurance. And the great thing is that the peace and assurance doesn't come from you. And what you've done or what you are doing. The other one will leave you striving after being something that you could then maybe boast in. Paul says, far be it for me to boast in anything except the cross of Jesus Christ. We have two problems when we are up in our own headspace. We have two problems that plague us continually. Either we're real honest with ourselves about our hearts, and then we feel ashamed. Or we pretend that we are who our dogs think we are And we get prideful. We uh either the only there's only two places you go either shame or pride if you're all up in your own headspace and you're all about yourself. I'm either dirt or I'm the champion And it's all about me, one way or the other. And there's only one way to get out of that. And it cures us of our shame and of our pride. They both get nailed to the cross when we have a perfect righteousness that is Jesus, that is given to us. He covers our shame. He bore our shame, we say. We have no more shame. We have no need to hide from God or hide from others. We are who we are. But Jesus is satisfied with us because He's made satisfaction for us. And if Jesus is satisfied with us because he's made satisfaction for us, then we don't need to walk around and say, oh, but I'm such a terrible person and I fall short every day. Yeah, no kidding. That's why Jesus had to come. But it also keeps us from pride because we know that the righteousness we have to stand before God is not our own, it's his. And so shame and pride are replaced with humility and gratitude. And you won't find security and peace of mind. You also won't find growth as a Christian until Christ Is in the center. And your heartbeat is humility and gratitude. He saved me. I'm so thankful. Not only has he saved me by the imputation of his righteousness, but when he comes again, he will Be glorified, and we will be glorified in him. This is verse twelve. Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many. He will divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors. One day, Jesus is going to return in power and glory. And on that day, he will inherit all the nations and all the earth. Every knee will bow, as we read earlier in Revelation 5. Every creature, every knee, will say how glorious and how worthy he is And when he does that, it says he's going to come, and God the Father is going to give him the inheritance of the nations, and he's going to divide his portion with the many. And the spoil, the spoils of victory with the strong. Who are the many and who are the strong? Well, the many and the strong. The many are the same. As we have in verse 12 later, he bore the sin of many. And that we had in verse 11, by his knowledge. shall the righteous one my servant make many to be accounted righteous. It is a multitude that no one can count, and it is from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation in the whole world. The many are God's saved and redeemed. Being the people, the many are you and me if you belong to Christ. We're part of the many. Which means we're also the strong. But not with our strength. What did Paul say about strength? I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And the all things, by the way, is all that he gives me to do. All his will. The will of God prospers in his hand. It doesn't not about being a great basketball player. Sorry, Steph Curry. Well it's not about claiming your, you know, Lamborghini. It's about doing what God's given you to do, and you'll be able to do it because you're made strong through Christ and you are the many. And when he comes, he divides everything with us. This is what sometimes I wonder, me as a believer and as a pastor, I wonder, we read things in the Bible, but do we really believe them? Let me give you one of these. Romans 8. When in doubt, it's always Romans 8. Romans 8, verses 15 to 18. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba, Father The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs. heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with Him, in order that we may also be glorified with Him. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory of God. That is to be revealed to us. Do we believe that? We are heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ. And the glory that is to be revealed is not one You can't even compare it to any suffering you go through. Any suffering we go through in this life. Whatever it is, it's limited It's temporary. The glory to come is infinite and eternal. As infinite and eternal as God Himself is, because that's the glory we enter into is the glory. of God. There's no comparison. It's wonderful beyond our imagination. But if you've noticed, we're not there yet. We're not there yet. And that's why I love the way Isaiah 53 ends. Yet he bore the sin of many and makes intercession for the transgressors. We are the many who've been forgiven. We are the many who are made strong through Christ, but we're also the many who are still inter who are still transgressors, and Jesus is living now to make intercession. Hebrews 7 says he holds his priesthood permanently because he continues forever. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through them since He always lives to make intercession for them. What's Jesus doing right now for you and for me, for our salvation? He's interceding for us. He's praying for us. I know that when you go through a hard time, it is always comforting to know that God's people are praying for you. We pray together as God's people for the people that have been asking for prayer. And I know we've gone through hard times myself. You feel the prayers of God's people. Comforting you and being used by God to encourage you. But here's the real comfort and the real encouragement. The Son of God, the righteous one, never stops praying for you. James says the fervent prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective Well, how much more the unceasing prayers of the righteous man who never stops praying for us? We will make it home. We will make it to see him face to face because Jesus never stops praying for us. praying for us. And the encouragement that Hebrews gives us is, hey, if we have this kind of a high priest, he sympathizes with our weakness. In every respect, he's been tempted as we are, yet without sin. This is Hebrews 4. He says, Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. He's praying for us and he welcomes us. He says, I'm here, I'm praying for you. Come to me. I've got mercy, I've got grace to help you in your time of need. Pour out your heart before me. I'm pouring mine out for you. That's our hope. So how do we apply this to our lives? We've already said several things already about shame and pride and frustration. But the most important question to ask, something I've asked already, do you believe this? So Jesus asked Martha when he said on the resurrection of the life, he said, Do you believe this? Kids, you sit here every Sunday listening to me preach, wondering when I'm gonna stop so you can get to the food table. Let me just ask you a quick question, really important question. Do you believe this? Do you believe that Jesus is the one who has taken your sin and carried your sorrows, and who rose again from the dead, and that your salvation is found in him and him alone. Do you believe this? If you're not sure, cry out to Jesus right now Turn to him. Call upon his name. Say, Lord, save me. Lord, help me believe. I believe, help my unbelief. Lord, help me to trust you. Come to him. He says, anyone who comes to him, he will not cast out. Come to him for salvation. Right now. If you do believe, are you living what you believe? What does that mean? Are you living what you believe? Well, let me ask you a few questions. Do you realize that just as God has good purposes in Christ's intense suffering, so he also has good purposes in your suffering? When you are suffering, I'm dealing with back pain this week. It's a very, very small thing compared to what so many people in our church are dealing with, but it's frustrating. There I go. Should never be frustrated, right? Um does God have purpose for it? Yeah. You know what? Sometimes God's need God needs me to God doesn't need me. God is calling me to sit and rest and seek Him And a lot of stuff got taken off my plate this week. It also helps me to be there for people who need it. Because I was able to get rest. Do you know that God has good purposes for you in your suffering? It may just be that you cry out to Him and draw near to Him. Second question, if you're living what you believe, are you living a life that is downcast and hopeless? Or do you live in the light of God's great love for you and Jesus' great salvation? Is the most real thing in your mind the thing that might cause you to be downcast? Or is it Jesus at the right hand of God, having conquered sin and death and never stopping praying for you? If you know the glory of resurrection and eternal inheritance awaits you Are you still seeking your glory and honor and pleasure and satisfaction in the things of the world? If you know that you've been made righteous by the righteousness of Jesus, do you still live in shame? Hiding? Pretending. You've been made righteous by the righteousness of Jesus. And if you know that it's Jesus' righteousness that justifies you and not your own, do you still live in pride or are you living in humble gratitude? Here's another one. If you know that Christ is living to make intercession for you right now, are you going to him as your great high priest? Are you seeking him daily? Are you going to the one who never stops praying for you? Do you keep the disappointments and frustrations you face in this life in their proper perspective, in the light of the glory to be revealed, in the light of the Savior who loves you and is praying for you? And finally. Are you sharing the good news of the gospel of Jesus with others so that Jesus might work through you to accomplish the purposes of God? There is nothing. There is nothing nothing you could ever do in this life that would compare to being used by God to bring someone else to eternal life. life in Christ. If your witness, if your testimony, if your prayers, if your pleading would be used by God as his means to bring someone to salvation in Christ, that will resound for each Eternity. Jesus is satisfied. He lives and reigns forever. Are we Be satisfied in him. Let's pray. Father, what grace you've given us in your Son Jesus. Holy Spirit, what power to bring us from death to life, to bring us from alienation to reconciliation, to bring us from shame. To confidence, not in ourselves, but in Christ. Thank you. Thank you. I pray that we would all know the joy, the satisfaction, the peace, the humble gratitude of belonging to you now and forever. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.