Psalm 23 is a psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, Lord Jesus, Holy Spirit Our faithful God, you never fail. You follow us with your goodness and your steadfast love, even as you lead us in paths of righteousness. To green pastures and quiet waters, through the darkest of valleys, leading us and feeding us. Defending us, correcting us, as only you can, as we need So we pray that you would do your work today as we look at your word. That you would feed us with Christ, the bread of life. And lead us in paths of truth and righteousness for your name's sake. Restore our souls in this time we have with you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. I'm going to ask a dangerous question at the beginning of a sermon. Who's hungry right now? That's not very nice. The food is over there. We'll be able to get to it in a little while. But One thing about me, for those who know me, if you ever see me without food in my hand, you don't really need to ask me if I'm hungry. It's like if you don't see me with a cup of coffee in my hand, you don't need to ask me, do you want a cup of coffee? Because if I'm not currently eating, I'm probably hungry. If I'm not currently drinking coffee, I probably want some. By the way, for the record, this is I've already had three cups of coffee this morning. I thought that was a good place to stop. But do you know that our souls get hungry? Just as surely as our bodies. And our souls need regular feeding, just as surely as our bodies We recognize when our bodies are hungry, and you know, sometimes we make foolish decisions when our bodies are hungry. Sometimes we reach for a bag of chips or some cookies. And I'm not saying they don't taste good, but if you're actually hungry, well you know that kind of food doesn't really satisfy you. You just sort of eat it and then you're kind of like, oh I know I ate something, but my stomach kind of hurts. And what I need is something nutritious. I need something with protein in it and actual like vitamins maybe. Um I made that mistake this morning when I was uh up at one of my kids Had left one of their lunch snacks on the table from this past week, and it's those um cinnamon alphabet cookies from Trader Joe's. I don't know if you've seen those. They come in the plastic tub and they're the letters of the alphabet and they're like cinnamon flavored. And so that was my first breakfast this morning. And it wasn't good. And even though I had written this sermon, I made that foolish decision and I thought, okay, I need to get like some oatmeal or something real in my stomach, because that doesn't feel good You know, sometimes we mistake our soul hunger for other things, and when we do so, we we misfeed our souls. Sometimes we mistake our soul hunger for sadness or loneliness or nostalgia or boredom. And so we can look for a quick laugh. Or we can long for the past, not the past as it actually was, but the past the way that we remember it, through rose-colored glasses, imagining that it was this great time in our lives, if only we could get back to it. And we miss what's really going on. When our souls are hungry, we don't need to binge watch YouTube shorts. We don't need to mindlessly scroll through social media or put together a new Pinterest board, Catherine. Or how did I say that? Or just maybe take a weekend to binge watch a whole season of a TV series we've been waiting to release. We don't need any of that. And none of that is going to satisfy us. It may distract us for a while, but we're going to come back and feel like we felt if we ate the whole bag of chips and we were hungry. We're going to feel emptier than before. Our bodies need nutritional food. What do our souls need? Our souls need God. Our souls need the Lord and His good gifts, recognizing that they come from Him. Jesus said, What does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his soul? God made us for himself, in his image, for a relationship with him, to be with him. And it's our separation from Him because of sin. It's our alienation. Our alienation from God is caused by sin, but also our alienation from one another is also caused by sin, our alienation from the world even from ourselves, this this multiple layers of alienation that leave us feeling empty, it all comes from sin. And nothing else is going to satisfy but actually getting our Redeemer. And through him to receive the good gifts with gratitude that he has for us. Some people chase Exciting experiences trying to satisfy their souls because they get a fleeting joy from going to a rock concert and hey concerts are great, professional musicians, it's wonderful. Or you go to a hike of a stunning overlook. We last Saturday we were in Virginia. We went for a six-mile mountainous hike. And I do mean mountainous. The first mile and a half was uphill, uh ceaselessly uphill. Every time you turned a corner and you thought it was going to flatten out, it got steeper. And so we got to the top where we had lunch and I texted Beth and she said, How's the hike? And I just said uphill. And then almost worse, the last mile and a half then was downhill. And my knees were not happy with me by the time I reached the bottom. But We the overlook that we stopped at for lunch was supposed to be this stunning view. Only we weren't in a national park, we were in a national forest. And there's a difference between the level of maintenance that they do in a national park versus a national forest. And long story short, no one had cleared the overlook in some time. And so we sat on rocks looking sort of through trees at what probably would have been a stunning view had it been super clear. We actually got to a place where we did get a clearer view after lunch, but um I love hiking. It's great exercise, but you can do all these experiences. So I know some of you enjoy going on cruises, and those are great. Um some people take higher adrenaline turns towards skydiving or bungee jumping or some people of course get into really dark and dangerous things like drugs or gambling addictions. Because they want a rush. They want to feel something. And ultimately, while some of those things are good and some of those things are not good, some of those things are gifts from God that we can receive with thanksgiving, other things we need to stay away from. None of them are good if we think of them as replacements for God. God's best gifts are lousy replacements for God Himself. So you can have the most wonderful vacation. Anybody feel this way? You have a wonderful vacation. You come back and you think, oh great, now I've got to do real life. And can I have a few days off before I have to get back into the actual life? Because somewhere we forgot to connect with the God who made us and who gives us our good life. Now when I was younger, I used to chase after the the Christian equivalent of some of these adrenaline experiences. Summer camp at Camp Halawasa in southern New Jersey, Christian concerts, youth conferences, retreats. Other emotional spiritual highs where you just feel a rush. Was I pursuing Jesus? Yes. But I was also pursuing a spiritual high that would, you know, leave me feeling good about myself and my place in the world, and there was always the coming down afterwards. What I learned Over time, now that I'm older, is that just as in a marriage relationship, it's good to go on date nights, it's good to go on vacations It's good to have getaway romantic times, but it is the day-to-day, the routine, the ordinary, that matters most. Our souls need to be fed with Christ every day and throughout the day Just as our bodies need food. I mean I like going out to a good restaurant to have a nice meal, and I like, you know, taking the time to make a really special meal at home. But if those were the only times I ate, I would be pretty malnourished. The ordinary I think that's a picture for us in the green pastures besides still waters. And if you see the footnote in the ESV, if you look down, there's the translation, alternates waters of rest. He makes us lie down. I talked about this last time. It's causative and it's continual. He makes us lie down in green. pastures continually. We need it. We need the rest. We need the food that's in those green pastures. The green pastures is the word of God. We need the spiritual food of Christ, but we feed on Christ through his word. This is the Word of God, and Christ is the Word of God, because we find Christ, the Word of God, revealed to us through this Word of God as we eat. This book, we take it to our hearts and we grow spiritually. Early this week, Wednesday, we were at Larry's house for the men's Bible study. And we're reading about the Word of God in Deeper. And it's a great quote in Deeper from the Gideons and what the Gideons print in the introduction of the Bibles that they distribute. I love this. Here it is. The Bible contains the mind of God, the state of man, the way of salvation, the doom of sinners, and the happiness of believers. Its doctrines are holy, its precepts are binding, its histories are true, and its decisions are immutable. Read it to be wise, believe it to be safe, and practice it to be holy. It contains light to direct you, food to support you, and comfort to cheer you. It is the traveler's map, the pilgrim's staff, the pilot's compass, the soldier's sword, and the Christian's charter. Here, paradise is restored, heaven opened, and the gates of hell disclosed. Christ is its grand subject. Our good its design and the glory of God its end. It should fill the memory, rule the heart, and guide the feet Read it slowly, frequently, and prayerfully. It is a mine of wealth, a paradise of glory, and a river of pleasure. It is given you in life, will be opened at the judgment, and be remembered forever. It involves the highest responsibility, rewards the greatest labor, and will condemn all who trifle with its sacred conduct. That's good stuff. That's the Word of God. And we're all saying Amen. Here's the truth, though. Most Christians I know Struggle to read their Bibles consistently and profitably. Meet very, very few Christians who would say, Yes, my Bible reading. and my prayer life are exactly what they should be. No. Oh, I'm very inconsistent about it. And when I read, I don't always get out of it. What I think I should get out of it. So I'm going to say there's two basic reasons for this. One is the things that keep us from reading, and two are the things that keep us from profiting more maximally when we do read. So what keeps us from reading? Well, there is an enemy, an enemy who very much wants to keep you away from this book because he knows it strengthens you. He knows it equips you to discern truth from error. It makes you wise to his temptations and his tricks. And so he will come up with almost anything to keep you Out of this book and out of this gathered worship. That's when Satan like really is acting like it's time for me to do my Bible reading. And that's when you You know, things erupt. This distraction, that distraction, this excuse, that reason, or Sunday morning. Like why is it that families have the hardest time getting together and getting out the door on Sunday morning You can go to school, you can go to sports, but Sunday morning it's so hard because there's an enemy at work. And he does not want us to be in the Word and in worship where we hear the Word. So we need to realize that it is an absolute necessity. Lying down in green pastures, sitting down at the well-prepared table, these are necessary things. They're not optional things Because the world and the devil will never stop lying to us. Our flesh will never stop kicking against the Word of God. And so we need to keep hearing the truth from God. We need to keep hearing the truth. We're ignorant. We're easily led astray. We are sheep, and we need to hear the good shepherd's voice so that we recognize it and we will walk in the paths that are right. We're weak. We need to be strengthened by the food of his word. It's not an option for when we have time. It's an urgent necessity that we must not neglect. We need to look at it like food. Or rest. We don't put those things off. Like if I'm hungry, I eat. Our souls are hungry. We need to eat. But sometimes when we eat, we're missing some things. The green pastures are beside still waters. And the sheep are not laying down alone. And I think this is a picture of two things. The ministry of the Holy Spirit is pictured in the water, and the body of Christ, the church, is pictured in other sheep. We need. Like sometimes we get the idea that we should just be able to open this book and read it and understand it and profit from it and it would just be wonderful. And sometimes we read it and we think, I don't even understand what this is. I'm in Ezekiel and he's doing weird stuff. Why? Well, you need the Holy Spirit. And you need other believers to help you. You weren't meant to be given this book for your solo endeavor. So we need the Holy Spirit. We need the water. To refresh and help us to digest the food. We need to pray. When you sit down to read the words, you need to pray and ask the Lord to be your teacher. The same Holy Spirit who inspired these words can illuminate our minds to understand them. So we need to pray. Before we read and after we read. Before we read, we need to pray that we would understand, and after we read, we need to pray that we would respond in faith and obedience. And It's good to look for help from other believers. God has gifted his church with under-shepherds, with those who are called and equipped for the ministry of the word. And that's good. We need to rely on that. We can benefit also from our brothers and sisters in Christ. We go to go to group Bible study and you sit together and you think, well, what does this passage mean? Well, the Holy Spirit's been convicting me that I really need to repent of this area of my life, or I need to trust God for this in my life, and then we share, but we also get teaching from those who have made it been called by the Lord to study. One of my favorite scenes from all the Gospels is in John 21. In John 21, Jesus is restoring Peter. It's after the resurrection. It's been some time after the resurrection. And they're on the Sea of Galilee, and Peter's decided he's just going to go back to fishing. It's not a light decision. He had denied the Lord three times after he swore he would follow him to the grave. He denied him three times. It's now sometime after the resurrection. They've seen the risen Lord in the upper room in Jerusalem, but he says, ah, I'm just going to go fishing. Let's go fishing. And this isn't like you or I deciding we're just going to go fishing. This was Peter going back to his professional occupation that he had before he was called by Christ. And Jesus shows up and there's a a reenacting of the miraculous catch of fish. And so Peter realizes that it's Jesus who's standing on the shore calling to them, and he takes off his outer garment, he jumps in the water, and he swims to go be with Jesus. And when Jesus restores Peter, he does so by asking him three times, do you love me? Once for each time that Peter had denied him. But what I love is what he says next. When Peter says each time, Yes, Lord, I love you, yes, Lord, I love you, you know all things, you know that I love you, after each one of these three affirmations of love, Jesus says to Peter Feed my lambs. Tend my sheep. Feed my sheep. For those of us who are called to be under-shepherds, and particularly those of us who are called to be teaching elders, it's a reminder to us that if we love Jesus, we will love his people, and we will love his people by feeding his people. And so you come hopefully to worship on Sunday morning expecting to be fed The most important thing for me to do when I'm up here and the Word of God is open is to feed you, not entertain you, not tell you clever stories that you might remember for later, but to feed you with Christ. From the Word and from the table. But then through the week, I've been preparing daily devotionals to again feed you with the Word of God. So I would encourage you to eat. There are great devotional books, there are great resources. We are the most blessed and resourced church in the history of the world. Eat. Eat. Husbands, imagine you get home from work and your wife's prepared a wonderful meal for you. Or maybe it's a Saturday morning and one of your kids has been ambitious and they've gotten together a wonderful meal and they've really worked hard on it. And whatever it is, but the meal is prepared lovingly by someone who knows you and who loves you and who's had you in mind, and you say, I just don't have time for that right now. I'm just way too busy Jesus gives us Himself through His Word the food that our souls need. We need to make it a priority And we need to do so in prayer and in fellowship with other believers. The Good Shepherd doesn't just lead us to lie down in green pastures, though. We have a second picture of feed. In verse 5, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows. Now, I can't say with certainty that the Lord's Supper is the primary thing that is in view in verse 5, with you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies, but this is certainly a good application of the Passage because here, where we are going to partake shortly, the Lord Jesus has prepared a table for us in the presence of our enemies. And he invites us to feed. Feast on him. He is both the gracious host, and he is the soul-satisfying feast. In John chapter 6, verses 48 to 50, Jesus says, I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. Now he clarifies earlier in John 6 what he means. By eating his flesh, by eating the bread that he offers. Because he said earlier in verse 35, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. But I said to you That you have seen me, and yet you do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out, for I have come down from heaven. not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day, for this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life And I will raise him up on the last day. And in case we missed it, he says it in verse 47, truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. Making a point of this from John 6 to say, the Lord's table is never just about eating bread and drinking wine and thinking we've gotten Jesus Jesus presents himself to us in a different form in the Lord's table, but it is still Jesus, and we still receive him in the same way, which is by faith. So in the Word of God, we hear his voice, the voice of our shepherd, we follow him by faith at the Lord's table. By faith we have We feed our souls on Christ, even as our bodies are fed with bread and wine. It is a picture. It is a sign and a seal. A picture and a promise that we are nourished, that we are cleansed with Christ when we receive him by faith By faith. And specifically in First Corinthians eleven, which we read every time before we take the Lord's Supper, it's a faith that calls us to examine ourselves and to discern the body, which means it has to be a knowledgeable faith, it has to be an understanding. We have to understand our lack. We have to understand Christ's meeting of that need. What did he do to save us? How is he our Savior? And in in as we partake by faith, then, knowing Christ and knowing ourselves and looking to Him, the Lord's Supper becomes truly communion. Where we commune with the Lord. Together, as one body, we commune with the Lord. We also call it sometimes the Eucharist. You may wonder about that. Why do we call it the Eucharist? Well, that comes from the Greek word for giving thanks, because here we give thanks as we We already sang it. Jesus, thank you. Well, as we take the bread and the wine, we're saying again, Jesus, thank you. Thank you for your body. Thank you for your blood. So you'll you'll note that every time we eat the bread, I pray afterwards in thanksgiving for the body of Christ. We drink the wine, I pray afterwards in thanksgiving for the blood of Christ. So we come, we are fed by Christ, we share communion with him And we give thanks for him because he feeds us with himself. Last time we saw, our Good Shepherd leads us. And we can go through the deep dark valleys because he's with us. Here, the Good Shepherd feeds us. And our souls will not fail to be nourished because what He feeds us with is nothing less than Himself. Our souls are hungry for God. And Jesus says, I am the bread of life. Look to me, come to me, believe on me, and you will have life for yourself. Your souls. He prepares the table for us in the presence of our enemies. Why in the presence of our enemies? That seems like an odd thing to do. I think there's two things in view. One is an acknowledgement of a reality, and that is that we live in enemy territory Peter warns us, your enemy, the devil, he prowls about like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. Who do the lions pick off, by the way? The ones who strain away from the herd, right? The ones who are just not quite with everybody else. Communion. We're gathered together, we're gathered together around Christ, who is our Savior, who's feeding us with Himself. And it's an acknowledgement that we are in enemy territory. We need to be together, and we need to be to be feeding our souls on Christ. But it's also a picture of the truth that our enemies are defeated. We sit down and we eat in the presence of our enemies because they are defeated. And when we are in Christ and we are feeding on Christ, They cannot harm us. We fear no evil. Yes, we live in enemy territory. But the enemy has to watch as we sit and we are strengthened for the battle with Christ. And he knows that as we by faith are being nourished by our Savior, we will be stronger in the battle. And he has to watch us be strengthened, knowing that he is defeated. Along with the table prepared in the presence of our enemies were also anointed with oil, and oil's a common symbol. in the scriptures for the Holy Spirit. Now this isn't the formal anointing oil for office, but it's the refreshing oil that's given to weary travelers. Remember in the Gospels when when Jesus went to the home of Simon the Pharisee and uh a a immoral woman came A woman who's well known for being an adulterer, probably a prostitute, she comes in and she anoints the feet of the Lord with oil and washes them with her tears and dries. them with her hair. And Jesus, when Simon the Pharisee is scandalized and says, he was a prophet, he would know what kind of woman this was, Jesus makes a point of looking at Simon and saying, Simon, I came into your house. You gave me no oil. You didn't have anyone wash my feet. And yet she Has not stopped anointing me with oil and washing my feet with her tears and drying them with her hair. Because when what you would do as a sign of hospitality is you would you would refresh a weary traveler. And when I got done with that hike last Saturday, this would have been really, really nice. But imagine walking around with leather sandals. On dirt and rocks and walking everywhere you go. Right? And you finally arrive at your destination, you get in the house, and it was the role of the lowest household servant. Take off your sandals. Wash your feet, rub oil into them, and dry them. Wouldn't that feel good? That's refreshment. The picture is that our Lord not only feeds us, but he refreshes us by the Holy Spirit. He renews, he restores our soul. We're renewed, we're refreshed. So much so that our cup overflows. The cup is the refreshing wine, which is at another picture of the Holy Spirit used commonly in scripture and the the picture here is of a of a host who's so generous that he's just pouring the wine into your cup until it flows out onto the table. There is no expense spared. There is no you know stingy It is here, be refreshed. That's how Jesus gives himself to us. Jesus gives himself to us with an abundant, generous, loving, self-sacrificing, and welcoming refreshment. He just loves us. He loves us. He's like that Stereotypical Italian grandmother is like, oh, you just need a little bit more. Oh, let's have a have a little bit more. He knows that we need him And he's not holding himself back. Our sin, listen, this is one this is a great thing I got out of Gentle and Lowly, which I read several years ago, and if you haven't read it, I highly recommend it. Dane Ortland, and then you can read deeper. It's a good combo. But the thing is, Jesus is not repulsed by our sin. It's why he's our Savior. Imagine a host of a meal being repulsed by the fact that the guest is hungry. You put them food on the table. Oh, I'm so hungry. I've been eating all day. I can't wait to dig in. And the host says, what? You haven't eaten all day? What's wrong with you? Our sin is why we need a Savior. Now, I'm not saying that Jesus is happy about our sin, but it doesn't cause him to recoil from us. It causes him to draw near to us because he is gentle and lowly in heart, and he says, This body was offered on the cross for your sin. This blood was poured out on the cross for your sin. And so if you come in Knowing your sin and feeling burdened by it, the Lord says that is all the more reason to come. One of the reasons why I don't like the way that sometimes traditionally some people have fenced the table, you know, giving the talk before the table, they've said if you if you're aware of any unconfessed sin in your life, then don't come. You know, I've been driven nuts by that. If I'm aware of any unconfessed sin in my life, I can't come to the table. I can just put myself into knots trying to figure out, am I worthy? That's what it means to partake worthily What it means to partake worthily is to be hungry for Jesus, and to know that He's the only one who can satisfy our souls. Not that we should harbor sin in our hearts, we should confess our sin. But we all have sinned. And we all need a Savior. And He He refreshes us. As long as we are in this life, until we are at the wedding supper of the Lamb, which is going to be the greatest feast ever. As long as we are in this life, our souls will remain hungry and in need of regular nourishment and refreshment. And the good news is that our good shepherd feeds his sheep. He feeds us every day through his word. He feeds us every week through the gathered worship of the saints. He feeds us every month through the Lord's table. And He is welcoming us to be fed, to be filled, to be refreshed, to be renewed, to be blessed. Will we answer the call? Let's pray. Oh Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you that in Him our souls find their true satisfaction. Every good and perfect gift comes down from you, Lord, but it comes from you out of your heart of love, and what we need is to trace the gifts back to the giver and satisfy So, Father, thank you for calling us to Christ. Thank you for saving us by your grace. Thank you for feeding us. With Jesus. As we prepare for the Lord's table, would you feed us anew with Christ for our hungry and weary souls? We need it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.