Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you here in week thirteen as we're working our way through the Heidelberg Catechism together, seeking gospel comfort by working our way systematically through guilt. Grace, gratitude. We're in the grace section, the section of the catechism that really deals with the very heart of our redemption. Uh it's a wonderful section, and uh it's been a blessing to you. It certainly has been a blessing to me to do it with you. Um let's Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we get into question number 36 today. Father in heaven, thank you so much for the gift of grace that we have in your Son, Jesus Christ. Thank you for the gospel, for the rich good news that brings us great deep comfort, strength, encouragement, hope, unquenchable, invincible. It's ours in Jesus Christ because of who he is and what you have done through him for us. So remind us of these things, instruct us in these things, grow us in the truth that might comfort our souls, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So as we get back into the Heidelberg Catechism, just a reminder that we are in the we're in the Apostles' Creed section of the Catechism. What are these articles that we believe? I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead and buried. He descended into hell. On the third day he arose from the dead. He ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church, the communion of saints. the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. So there are twelve articles in the Apostles' Creed divided into three main sections. The first section deals with God the Father Almighty and Providence, and we looked at that a while ago together. And right now we are in section two and we've been looking at Article number two, I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. So, question 35 that we looked at last time was, what do you confess when you say he was conceived by the Holy Spirit? born of the Virgin Mary. Answer that the eternal Son of God, who is and remains true and eternal God took to himself through the working of the Holy Spirit from the flesh and blood of the Virgin Mary a truly human nature. so that he might also become David's true descendant, like his brothers and sisters, in every respect except for sin. So that's what we learned last time. And then question 36 is a follow-up on question 35. And it says, what benefit do you receive from the holy conception and birth of Christ? And the answer is he is our mediator, and with his innocence and perfect holiness covers in the sight of God my sin, in which I was conceived and born. You see, a mediator is someone who can fairly, accurately, justly represent both parties bringing both parties together. So to be the mediator, Christ Jesus has to be God and man, the one who can bridge the gap, the chasm that sin has created between God and man. So in his person, he bridges that gap and in his work His innocence, his perfect holiness. He covers his person and work, and we're going to be exploring his work more in days to come, but we've been focusing on his person. and particularly the two natures of Christ and why it's so important that he be both God and man to qualify himself to be our mediator. This is what first Timothy two five says, for there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men. the man, Christ Jesus. You see, he has to be a man, and he is Christ, the anointed one, prophet, priest, and king, and he is Jesus, which means salvation, our Savior. As God who became man, the man Christ Jesus is the one mediator, one mediator, one qualified mediator between God and man. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says this about what Jesus did and what God did through Jesus in his mediation. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For our sake, he made him to be sin who knew no sin. Now there's a lot of heaths and hymns in there. For our sake, God the Father made Christ Jesus who knew no sin to be sin. So for our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. In Christ we become the righteousness of God. Why? Because He is the righteousness of God. We looked at this before. There's no other righteousness but the righteousness from God. This past Sunday's sermon was really all about that. Only God's righteousness can save. We have to become the righteousness of God. How do we do that? Only through the one who himself is the righteousness of God, which we looked at when we looked at the two natures of Christ. and why it is that we need that. This is how we benefit from him. Let's go back to Romans 8. You'll find so much in Romans 8. So many answers to so many questions lie in the lines of Romans 8. wonderful chapter. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. by sending his own son, that's the divine nature and origin, in the likeness of sinful flesh That's the incarnation. And for sin, that's the purpose. He condemned sin in the flesh. In order that, this is the resulting uh benefit, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, Who walk not according to the flesh, which is a way of self-reliance, but according to the Spirit who unites us to Christ So, the law, the written law of God, wonderful, holy, good law, but it's weakened by my flesh because I can't keep it. I'm incapable So the law could not save me. God sent his own son, perfect, holy, righteous, son of God, in the likeness of sinful flesh. He takes on human nature. All other human beings are sinful. He's not sinful. That's why the word is likeness here. But he comes in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin. So that our sin could be condemned in his flesh, and his righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us by the work of the Holy Spirit. Such wonderful. We could look at so many scriptures at this. We'll do a couple more. Hebrews 9, verses 13 to 15 says, For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctify for the purification of the flesh How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God Purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Therefore, he is the mediator of a new covenant so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant. Now this is saying a lot, but basically it's saying the same exact thing as what Romans 8 was saying. The law couldn't save us. We we commit transgressions under the law. The first covenant is the law. All the blood of bulls and goats could not provide final sanctification. It did provide a level of sanctification for the flesh, but the blood of Christ is so much greater, so much more. And as he offers himself up in our place as our mediator, the mediator of a new covenant, we, two things happen to us. Our consciences are purified. And we receive the promised eternal inheritance. That's the benefit we get from Jesus taking on humanity. Taking on a human nature and going to the cross. Our consciences are cleansed, and we receive the promised eternal inheritance. The final verse for today. 1 Peter 1, 18 and 19. Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers. Not with perishable things, such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. So again, hearkening back to that old covenant pattern. the spotless lamb. Jesus is the true spotless lamb of God, the Son of God, who is His blood is worth more than all the silver and gold in all the world. And we are redeemed only and forever through him. Amen. It's through him alone. This is the good news that we receive in the nature of Christ So the question again, the catechism question, what benefit do you receive from the holy conception and birth of Christ? He is our mediator. and with his innocence and perfect holiness covers in the sight of God my sin in which I was conceived and born. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we're born sinful, and we commit sinful acts in our thoughts, in our words, and our deeds. We know it. We see it so clearly in the pattern of our lives. And yet Jesus is the sinless one. Jesus is the holy one. Jesus is the righteousness of God. And he came to give himself for us, so that we might become as innocent as he is, cleansed of all sin. and to receive the eternal inheritance that's promised to him. His is the rightful inheritance as the Son of God, but we receive that promised eternal inheritance as co-heirs with Jesus. We're so thankful for this. We praise you, Lord God, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well wonderful truth from the gospel again today. Let's respond by singing God's praises together. Jesus, thy blood and righteousness, my beauty are my glorious dress. Midst cleaning words in east hoy with joy shall fit up my hand Who shall I stand in thy great day? To me a charge can lay fully am so through eats I am from sin. And free from guilt and shame. Lord, I believe thy prayer. Precious blood we chant the murce these three of God for seed. Just please for me, feel for my soul was shed.