From guilt Through Grace to Gratitude. Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotional Series for 2026. Three days a week on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, we're going to be walking through the 129 questions of the Heidelberg Catechism. And our goal here is not just to familiarize ourselves with a nearly 500-year-old set of questions and answers, but it is to glean true gospel comfort, which is the aim of the Heidelberg Catechism So let's pray as we begin our time together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us, for your faithfulness that is unfailing. Thank you so much for your Son, Jesus Christ, who is our gospel comfort. We pray that you would be our teacher and guide by your Holy Spirit. As we walk through these questions and answers in the coming months, we pray that you would guide us in the truth according to your word, in the truth that is embodied in your Son, in the truth that is applied to our souls by your Holy Spirit. so that we can be comforted with the hope of the gospel and we can live for your glory and for nothing less. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, so why the Heidelberg Catechism? Well, let's think about this. The Heidelberg Catechism is a set of questions and answers. Some people get really freaked out or scared when they hear the word catechism because it sounds very technical. It might sound Roman Catholic. It might sound like something that's difficult or dense, but it really is just a set of questions and answers. It's a teaching method for unpacking truth, for sort of digging deep And we want to dig deep into the gospel. We want to dig deep into the gospel so that we can understand more fully and more richly what God has revealed to us in His Word and in His Son. So this is 129 questions and answers that together provide an outline to the essentials of the faith. It is really a guide to gospel comfort. How do we get comfort from the gospel? for our lives and for eternity. Where did this come from? Well in 1560s, Elector Frederick III was the ruler of the Palatinate in modern day Germany Heidelberg being the key city in his region. So he was the ruler over this city-state, this area of Germany called the Palatinate. And it was really the most prominent and the most important of the regions of Germany at the time. But it was also one that was being heavily influenced by the Reformation in two different ways. There was kind of an older Lutheran stream that had been around since the 1520s that had really been thoroughly throughout this area. But there was a newer, sort of Calvinistic Reformed faith that was understanding of the Reformation, that was coming in, and that was influencing many of the people, and that had influenced Frederick himself And so he wanted a commission of pastors and theologians to put together a catechism A set of questions and answers that would actually bring gospel unity to his people within his district He wanted them to be firmly rooted in the truth of the gospel in a way that could perhaps bring together more Luther-influenced and more Calvin-influenced people. to have a unified understanding of our gospel hope. So he appoints this commission, and largely the material that's in the Heidelberg Catechism was written by a guy named Zacharias Ursinas. Now Ursinas is actually his Latinate name. His real last name is Bear and he's from the eastern part of of Germany toward Czechoslovakia, that area. And uh he is a theologian. He's a professor of theology in the New Testament at Heidelberg University and he's twenty-eight years old. So Zacharias is the principal author of the Heidelberg Catechism, but then Caspar Oliviandus, I can't ever say his name right, Olivianus. Caspar Olivianus is the court preacher. He's actually the guy who preaches to Elector Frederick III on a regular basis in the court of the ruler. And he is got a pastor's heart and a passion for Jesus and a passion for the gospel and a passion for the comfort of God's people. So he takes the material from Ursinas, from Zachariah's Bear or Ursinas, and Makes it more pastoral, makes it more um medicine for the soul. Well, from the beginning, this Heidelberg Catechism is very popular It spreads quickly, it catches on widely, people really appreciate it. And over the years, up until probably the last few decades, Over the centuries, from the 1500s, 1600s, 1700s, 1800s, or first half of the 1900s, this was one of the most widely translated, distributed, and influential books in the history of the world. Some traditional rankings will tell you the Bible, Pilgrim's Progress, Thomas Ekemphas's on the imitation of Christ, and then the Heidelberg Catechism are the four most widely translated distributed and influential books in the history of the world. Now modern publishing, some modern fiction series have actually spread pretty far, but for hundreds of years this was the case. It's been translated into over 80 different languages and spread around the world and has been a source of great comfort for lots of people. And we say it's a source of gospel comfort. That's really where the catechism begins. It begins with this first question, what is your only comfort in life and death? Comfort is interesting because we think of comfort like a comfortable pair of slippers for walking around the house or a comfortable blanket for sort of cozying up in front of the television or you know, a comfortable seat to recline in. But the word troost in the original German is stronger than just like being comfortable. It really is what brings you soulless. peace, strength, good cheer. It's what encourages your soul. Now we often find comfort in many things. We can talk about comfort foods that we eat when we're stressed out and we just want to sort of take the edge off. Or we can talk about, you know watching Hallmark Christmas movies as sort of comfort uh television, you just sort of watch and escape into this romance. Or we have comfortable places to go to relax. Some people like to go to the beach and just sort of chill. Some people like to go to the mountains and just sort of chill. But all of those things are temporary. All those kinds of comfort, they're limited and they're temporary. There's only one comfort that carries us throughout life. Into death and beyond, into all eternity. Our only comfort in life and death is simple. It's shocking, it's countercultural. But it is the fact that I am not my own, but belong body and soul, both in life and in death to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ. That's how the Heidelberg Catechism begins. This is not just the beginning though. It really is preparing us for the totality of what's coming in the Heidelberg Catechism. If you want comfort, true, deep strength, consolation, peace, and joy for your soul in life and in death. You're only going to find it in not belonging to yourself, but belonging body and soul, both in life and in death. to your faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. That's the short answer. Now the answer gets unpacked throughout the rest of question and answer one, which we're going to be looking at in the next couple of days. So today we're just going to be focusing our attention on the very first part of this that I am not my own. but belong body and soul, both in life and in death, to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ. And then tomorrow, or not tomorrow, Wednesday, our next devotional, we're going to take a look at the next two lines. He has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood and has set me free from all the power of the devil or all the tyranny of the devil. You'll find different English translations that will render the words of the catechism slightly differently, and that's because these are translations. This was originally written in German. for a Germanic people. But since then it's been translated into every major European language and most of the major spoken languages in the world. As I said earlier, over 80 different languages, some 82 or 85 languages in the world have the Heidelberg Catechism. So what we're always dealing with in English is an English translation of the original German. That's why you'll see slight differences in word choice. So today, these first two lines, I am not my own, but belong body and soul, both in life and in death to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ Wednesday With our second devotional, he has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood and has set me free from all the power or tyranny of the devil. And then on Friday we're going to wrap it up with the last two sections. He also preserves me in such a way That without the will of my Heavenly Father, not a hair can fall from my head, indeed all things must work together for my salvation Therefore, by his Holy Spirit, he also assures me of eternal life and makes me heartily willing and ready from now on to live for him. So that's coming, but today we're just focusing on these first two lines. These are very, as I said, very counter-cultural. In America, in the 21st century. It is all about autonomy. Autonomy is being a law unto yourself, governing yourself, ruling yourself, belonging to yourself. Nobody can tell me who I am, nobody can tell me what I am, nobody can tell me what I'm for. All of that in modern American parlance is only determined by me. But that doesn't give us any real comfort. Because at the end of the day, we know that we are fallible human beings. We are foolish. We make stupid decisions. We have limited knowledge. We're very weak. We're very inadequate. So not only is it wrong, spiritually and morally wrong, but it's also foolish. To think that I'm going to find comfort in being the captain of my own ship, the lord of my own destiny. No. We are incapable of that. We are inadequate to the task We are morally flawed, we are spiritually dead by nature, we are intellectually limited, we we don't have power and wisdom We need to belong to another who is greater than we are. We need to belong to one who is perfect in wisdom. Perfect in knowledge, perfect in love, perfect in compassion, understanding in grace, in holiness. In morality and righteousness. And that's Jesus Christ. And the good news of the gospel is that we belong to Him. By faith, we belong to Him, body and soul, both in life and in death. Let's take a look at a couple of scripture passages that teach us this. 1 Corinthians 6, 19-20 says, Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. This is, we who belong to Jesus Christ, we are not our own. We've been bought with a price. And Next devotional on Wednesday we'll talk about the price that was paid, that precious price. But this is this just the truth. We we are to glorify God in our body because we are not our own. We've been bought with a price. We're a we're a temple of the Holy Spirit, which dignifies us and elevates us far above what we would be if we were just on our own. Here's Romans 14, 7-9. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself For if we live, we live to the Lord. And if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. For to this end Christ died and lived again that he might be Lord, both of the dead and of the living. So here's that comfort in life and in death. It is Jesus Christ. If we live, we live to the Lord. If we die, we die to the Lord. Whether we live or die, we are the Lord's. That's precious. You belong to God if you believe in Jesus Christ. You are his child. You are the apple of his eye. You are close to his heart. You are loved and kept by him. That is good news. And the more we understand that, the more we believe that, the more we allow that to saturate every part of our souls, the more comfort we get. Not from being our own masters. but from belonging to the greatest master of all, who has purchased us for himself. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for drawing us to Christ, for bringing us to Christ, and for bringing us to yourself through Christ. We are not our own. We belong to the Lord Jesus. And that gives us eternal, unshakable comfort, strength, hope, assurance. Peace that the world cannot take away. We thank you for this most precious gift. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. And each devotional, we're going to respond to what we hear from the catechism and from God's Word with worship. And so we're going to have hymns that close out each worship time. So let's worship the Lord together now. When he's alike. When so like e blows along. Whatever my love thou has told me to say it is well. It is well with my store. It is well with my My soul it is where it is well in my soul. Should come though trial should come. Let me let the show. That try to recognise my blessings. And I shed his own blood for my story. With my strength, it is love, it is worth Nice leg, old double leg, oh his glory. I did not impart but the home in the cross and die. I fail it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord my soul. But the big people. It is well with my joy, it is well. With my soul It is the world, it is well with my soul.