The words of life we turn to this morning are found in Psalm 13. So if you turn with me in your copy of the Word of God to Psalm 13, you can use one of the church Bibles. You'll find it on page Page four fifty three. Psalm fifteen is written to the choir master It is a Psalm of David. How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Consider. And answer me, O Lord my God, light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death, lest my enemy say, I have prevailed over him Lest my foes rejoice, because I am shaken. But I have trusted In your steadfast love. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord. Because he has dealt bountifully with me. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, Father in heaven, We thank you for your word, for the honesty that you give us in the Psalms to shape and guide our prayers, for the reminders of truth. For the security of our hope in every season of life. We ask that you would write Psalm 13 on our hearts this morning, that we might receive it, live it, pray it. And draw closer to Christ through it. As your people, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. And you may be seated. How long is this going to take? That's a question we ask a lot in different circumstances. Most of the time we don't ask that when we're facing something exciting or fun. If you're a beach person, you don't get to the beach in the morning and sit down and relax and say, how long is this going to take? But if you're me, you do. Not really. I only ask that after about two hours and then I'm done. But we we ask this question when we're facing something unpleasant, but also something that we anticipate getting through. We might ask it while we're waiting for our number to be called at the MBA. We might ask it when we're facing surgery. You might be asking it of yourselves right now as the sermon begins. Yesterday, we had Gabe and Kate's wedding at the Naval Academy, and months ahead of time, they warned me of the rules. They said Pastor Jason, they have this very strict rule there. The whole wedding from beginning to end has to be done in 30 minutes. So can you do that? I mean Gabe has grown up under my preaching for the past nine years. He had good cause to ask that question. We did get it in in time. Do not spread the rumors too far that I can preach a sermon in less than ten minutes. But how long? How long we also ask in much more serious times. Times of deeper struggle. We ask, how long will I be stuck in this depression? How long will it be until my children return to the Lord? How long will these cancer treatments last? Of the questions that we ask in hard times. Why and how long are probably the most frequent and the most painful. We often ask why, because we're looking for an explanation. And the the problem with that question is that Very often the explanation lies far beyond our ability to understand. And so we ask why, and there's not an answer that we can be given That will really make sense to our minds of the pain that we're in. How long is is a more hopeful question because it's seeking an ending. It's expecting that this will not last forever, that there will be a limit to it. In the Psalms, we actually have both questions that are asked in laments or painful psalms But how long is by far the more frequently asked question. Because we trust in the goodness of God. Because we trust in his wise and loving providence for his own, we believe that he will bring us through difficult patches of his providence. With a purpose and with a resolve. And so that's why we ask how long? And so it really is a question of faith. Why tends more to be a question of doubt But how long tends, even when it's painful, to be a question of faith. And so David begins, how long, O Lord? Will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? We don't know the life circumstance that caused David to write Psalm 13. We're not given any information about that. in the title, but he's clearly in a desperate place, and he's been in that desperate place for longer than he would have expected. We know of one period of time in David's life where there was a long period of his enemy being exalted over him and of him wondering how long it was going to be, and that is the period of time between when the prophet Samuel anointed him to be the next king of Israel and when he actually became king of Israel. There were a couple of decades of his life that went by when he was fleeing from Saul and being Persecuted part of that time he spent in Philistine territory. He must have thought when he was anointed at maybe seventeen years old, he must have thought, wow, I'm going to be the next king. This is But it was it was more than twenty years before he became king. How long? And all that time the king, Saul, quickly, within a few years, started hunting him down and hounding him. You know, we all go through times when we ask how long. And one of the things I love about the Psalms is that the Psalms give us prayer language. For whatever we're going through. John Calvin very famously said that the Psalms are an anatomy of the human soul. Every emotion that we're capable of experiencing. is in some way outlined for us in one or another of the Psalms. The Psalms give us prayers to pray, words to use, to pour out when we don't have the words. We've learned in this church and we've practiced over the years the Acts model of prayer, adoration, confession, thanksgiving. Giving supplication. It's a very good pattern of prayer. It's a pattern for normal prayer. It's patterned after the Lord's Prayer and other prayers in the Bible. We begin with adoration, we worship God, we praise Him, we confess our sins, we thank Him for His goodness before we ask Him for our needs. We begin with adoration because Jesus began the Lord's Prayer with Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. But we all know the reality, and that is that not all prayers follow the normal pattern of prayer. And David doesn't begin Psalm 13 with O Lord, you are great and sovereign, and I trust in you at all times. And yet, he doesn't do that. He just says, how long? Oh Lord, will you forget me forever? There could hardly be a more striking opening line for a prayer. David is honest. David is earnest David is calling on the Lord, this is the covenant name of God, the great I am, the one who never changes, the one who is self-sufficient in every way, the one who has entered into covenant with David, who has made covenant promises to David, and yet Has God forgotten those covenant promises? There was an anointing. There was a promise. Has God abandoned it? He feels like God has hidden his face from him, that his prayers are not really being heard, that he's being abandoned to take counsel in his own soul rather than being able to take counsel with the Lord, whom he loves so deeply and longs to enjoy close fellowship with. And as a sign of God's abandonment of him, he he sees the reality that his enemy is exalted over him. And he asks, how long is this going to happen? And here's where we need to be careful. And we need to say that while David is being honest before the Lord, and such honesty is welcome and encouraged, we know Even from the way this psalm unfolds in a few short lines, that David was not, in fact, abandoned by God Even in the pit of despair, the Holy Spirit inspired him to write this psalm. God hadn't forgotten him. God hadn't turned his face away from him. God, through the Holy Spirit, was working through him to write this psalm. For David's own encouragement and comfort and for the encouragement and comfort of God's people for now three thousand years David may have felt abandoned by God, but he was not. He may have felt forgotten by God, and he was honest about that feeling, but that was not true. In our modern society, we are always tempted to give far too much credence to our feelings. We live in a society where, generally speaking, the society has told us that you are your feelings. Your feelings are who you are. And you can't deny your feelings because to deny your feelings would be to be inauthentic and therefore not to be yourself. And you don't want to not be yourself. And so you have to let your feelings lead you. Follow your heart, and you'll never go wrong. Well, not so. Now, in Christian circles, of course, we can react against that, and we can Almost get to a point where we reject feelings. We say, oh, I want to have feelings. Those would lead me astray. Those who would get me into trouble. But that's not, the scripture doesn't take either one of those approaches. The scripture doesn't take the approach that says, lead with your feelings, because your feelings are the infallible guide to who you really are And the scripture doesn't say bury your feelings in a hole in the ground and forget that you even have them and keep a stiff upper lip and you know carry on. No. The Bible tells us we are to openly and freely acknowledge to God how we feel, but we must also not allow our feelings to determine Determine reality to the point of overriding the promises of God. God has made covenant promises. God will keep his covenant promises. God's covenant promises never fail, and God never changes, no matter how we feel. But God wants us to tell him how we feel and be honest about how we feel and then receive from him the response to that. So David, after he pours out his heart of how he feels in the opening two verses, he then gets to his request. He doesn't just wallow in feeling this way. He asks God to do something about it. It's a direct Direct prayer. Consider an answer. Consider and answer me, O Lord, my God. So he already called him O Lord in the beginning. Now he calls him O Lord again. He says, O Lord, my God. And that means the unchanging, self-sufficient, great I am, covenant-making, covenant-keeping God is his God. His strength, his deliverer, his mighty one. O Lord my God, light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death Lest my enemies say I have prevailed over him, lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken. David confesses. that he needs the Lord to answer him and save him, or else he will sleep the sleep of death and his enemies will prevail over him. David is not pretending to be self-sufficient. He's not acting like he's got this under control. He's saying to God, I need you to consider, I need you to answer, I need you to light up my eyes, I need you to deliver me, or I am going to be done. Evil will triumph We need to remember this, we need to realize this, that we are, we are always absolutely dependent upon the Lord in all of our trials. We can do nothing without Him. The Bible does tell us in 1 John 4. 4, he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. And that's a great truth. But we need to remember that it's he who is in us who is greater than he who is in the world, not who we are and of ourselves that are greater than who is in the world. In other words, we have a real enemy, Satan, who really is trying to destroy us. He really is uh prowling about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour and we have one within us who is greater than him. We have Christ in us which is our hope of glory but that hope is not in ourselves So sometimes we do what when we're stuck in trouble, what do we do? Honestly, what do we do when we're stuck in trouble? We try to figure it out. We panic and get worried because we can't figure it out We get mad oftentimes at innocent people who have nothing to do with it because we can't figure it out. Or if it's a sort of sad, deep thing, we might distract ourselves from it by Eating ice cream and binge watching something on Netflix because that will just quiet our feelings so we don't have to feel our feelings. What are we doing? We either think I'm going to do this, I'm going to make it work, I'm going to fix this. Get out of my way if you're getting between me and the solution, because I I'm doing this. Or we're like, oh, it's too much for me. I can't possibly do anything about it We can't do it. But God can And God wants us to turn to him. God wants us to cry out to him. God wants us to pour out our hearts before him. Later in Psalm 124, David would write these words, If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, let Israel now say, if it had not been the Lord who was on our side when people rose up against us then they would have swallowed us up alive. When their anger was kindled against us, then the flood would have swept us away, the torrent would have gone over us, then over us would have gone the raging waters Blessed be the Lord, who has not given us as prey to their teeth. We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken and we have escaped. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. We can have a humble confidence only when we have a complete dependence on the Lord. You see, on our own, we're tempted either to an arrogant confidence, I can do this. I am going to defeat this problem. Or we can have despondency. It's too big for me. I can't possibly do it. But only in the Lord can we have a humble confidence that says, I know this is too big for me. I know that I can't handle this, but nothing is too big for God, nothing is impossible for God, nothing is beyond his ability to get me out of. And one way that we do this is by looking back at how the Lord has been faithful to us. in the past. We can see that at the very end of Psalm 13 when David says, he has dealt bountifully with me. If God has gotten us through things in the past by His faithfulness, we haven't done it on our own. It matters a great deal how we tell ourselves the story of our lives. That matters a great deal. When we look back upon past successes, past triumphs, past accomplishments, do we tell the story as though we did something great? Or do we tell the story as though God did something great for us? In other words, do we speak with boasting or do we speak with gratitude? To ourselves and to others about the good things in our lives. This is where it's very practical. Giving thanks in all things is very practical because the more we look back and we give thanks, because it really came from God, Then we can look at the next thing and we can say, that's way too hard for me, but you know what? I didn't actually do that one on my own. It was God who did that for me. And this isn't too big for him. And so that's where David comes in verse 5. He says, But I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. This is the great hinge of the psalm. So often, this little word, R. C. Sproul, you've heard me say before, R. C. Sproul said this is the most important word in the Bible. But Or yet. Or nevertheless. It's often the same word that's being translated different ways, but it's the most important, it's the hinge word of Scripture. Now this one's a little bit unusual because he says, but I have trusted in your steadfast love. What's unusual about that? Most of the time in Scripture, when you have that hinge point of but, it's but God. But the Lord, right? My favorite, as you probably know, is Ephesians 2. 4, my favorite two words in the whole Bible. Ephesians 2 says, You were dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work, and the sons of disobedience among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead and our trespasses made us alive together with Christ by grace, you've been saved. That's the The best but God. Right? Amen. Titus three has a similar hinge point. He says To Titus, for we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But When the goodness and loving kindness of God, our Savior, appeared, He saved us. Not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to His own. Mercy. Both of those are great illustrations of what the Bible does over and over again, and that says, on our own, we would have no hope. We are twisted, we are broken, we are enslaved, we are Not good people, but God has mercy on us, but the Lord in his loving kindness and his mercy. But here, what's David saying? He's saying, but I Have trusted in your steadfast love. Is David pointing to himself? No. No. He's actually remembering the grace of God Why is it that David has trusted in the steadfast love of the Lord? It's because God By his grace, has changed his heart from a heart of stone to a heart of flesh and has given him faith in the world. one true God. When David says, but I have trusted in your steadfast love, he's saying, my faith is evidence of the grace of God at work in my life. He's not looking at his faith as something he has done, but rather something that God has given. We see this as well in Paul's writings in 1 Thessalonians. He writes to the Thessalonian church and he says, we know, brothers loved by God, that he has chosen you because our gospel came to you. So when Paul preached the gospel in Thessalonia And the people were convicted to the core, he said, You've been chosen by God. And that's the evidence of it. We know that you are chosen by God because the gospel came, power, the Holy Spirit. and full conviction. So this is what David's saying when he says, but I have trusted in your steadfast love. He's saying, you've given me saving faith. So that my faith has been trusting in your covenant, steadfast, committed, faithful love. And that means That I am yours and you are mine. And if I am yours and you are mine, then even in this place of despair, even in this place of how long, I Shall my heart shall rejoice in your salvation. David's resolve here Is that he will be guided by the grace of God, by the steadfast love of God, to rejoice in the salvation of God Even when he can't see it. He will be guided by the grace of God And the steadfast love of God to rejoice, rejoice in the salvation of God even when He can't see it or feel it. He will still rejoice. Hundreds of years later, the prophet Jeremiah did this. Right in the middle of the saddest book in the Bible, Lamination Lamentations. Lamentations, the saddest book in the Bible. It's weeping, literally a book of weeping. But at the center of it, in the very middle of it, where's the important stuff in Hebrew poetry? In the middle, right? In the very middle of lamentations, this is what we get. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, says my soul. Therefore I will hope in him. The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. Jeremiah sings that, as Jerusalem is a pile of rubble and ash And decaying bodies. Read Lamentations. It's awful. But he says that right in the heart of it because he says, My eyes tell me one thing. But the character of my God tells me something different. And I will trust the character of my God. And we wait. While we say how long. We wait for the salvation of the Lord. We rejoice in hope. We rejoice in hope Because we know that our God never fails. His mercies are new every morning. I can rejoice in his salvation, I can hope in him, I can wait quietly in my distress, I can seek him. I can trust him to be who he is and to be gracious to me at all times. Even when we're surrounded by enemies, even when the pressure and the persecution of our enemies seems too much, or when life's circumstances are overwhelming. When we're just distressed about the state of our culture or things going on in our families or things going on in our own hearts, we can look up to heaven And to the eternal God who reigns over us and who reigns over all things, to our sovereign, committed, loving God, who never fails, and we can And rejoice in hope. Now here's the truth. On our own, by ourselves, we are very often too weak to do that You ever said, I need the Lord? And you open up your Bible and you start reading and it just Doesn't do anything. And you start praying, and 30 seconds into your prayer, your mind is racing about all the worries and anxieties you have, and you feel like you're just unmoored and untethered in your training. Trying, but it's not working. And here's why. Because we weren't meant to do this alone. We weren't meant to do this alone. Who does David write this for? The Psalm of David for the choir master. You know what that means? hence that means he wrote this for public worship. He wrote this for the gathered worship of God's people. Because we need each other. We need each other. You get a little fire going in the fire pit outside, one of the things I like about the summer, you get a fire going outside and you know, cook things on it Get in touch with your inner caveman. And uh you notice that sometimes there will be a a a stick or a log and it'll sort of fall off by itself away from the rest of the fire. What happens to it? Starts to die out, right? But as soon as you put it back with the rest of them, what happens? Oh, that fire comes back again. We need each other. We need to be gathered together week by week on the Lord's Day. And then during the week, if we're struggling, we need to call up each other and say, I'm struggling. Will you pray with me? Pray for me because we're not meant to do it on our own. We're meant to gather together. And one of the things that we do when we gather together that most rekindles the fire is Is singing. And so he says, I will sing to the Lord. Last verse, because he's dealt bountifully with me. When we come together and we sing To the Lord the praises, and we hear each other singing, that rekindles that fire, that stokes up that hope, that re-invigorates our souls in what we know is right. Here's the truth. It's not enough for us to simply know the truth. We Presbyterians are really big on knowing the truth, and I love knowing the truth. And I get very particular about certain things. If you know me at all, you know I get very particular about certain things because I'm like, this is right and this is true, and this follows from this, and that's wrong, and that's not right Okay? Care a lot about truth. It's important, right? But it's not enough to just know the truth. It's not enough to just remind ourselves and even one another of the truth. Our souls actually Actually, we need to sing to the Lord. He is worthy of our worship, and we were made to worship Him David says he's going to sing to the Lord because the Lord has dealt bountifully with him. And if the Lord's dealt bountifully with you, how could you do anything other than sing? It should be the The natural overflow of your heart. God's been good to me. I'm gonna sing. If your favorite team scores a touchdown, what do you do? You cheer, right? If you're an Orioles fan and your team beats the Yankees 17 to 5, what do you do? You gloat about it on Facebook. If you eat something delicious, you say, Mmm, that's good. And you tell somebody else about how good it is, and maybe offer them a bite, because you want them to share in the joy. And if the Lord has been good to you you sing. And so even in his distress, we don't get anything here that tells us that David's circumstances changed, that the Lord got him out of it. We just see here he's in agony. But he's saying, I will sing to the Lord. And look at that contrast then that we get from the opening verse to the end. How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? From me, I will sing to the Lord, because he has dealt bountifully with me. David's heart attitude was completely transformed because he sought the Lord earnestly. He cried out to him honestly. He trusted him by grace to continue to be who he has always been, David's good and gracious king. And so we see that David learned valuable lessons in his suffering. It's not just that God puts us in suffering and we wonder how long. He's actually doing something in that suffering. He's teaching David. He's teaching us. In the movie Shadowlands, C. S. Lewis says of experience: it's the most brutal of teachers, but you learn. Experience is the most brutal of teachers, but you learn. What did David learn? Well, he learned first that you don't wallow in painful suffering. But you pour out your soul honestly before God. He learned that just because you're suffering, even very deeply and for a very long time, even without any apparent reason, that doesn't mean that God has either changed or abandoned you He learned that God remains steadfast in his love and good in his dealings with all of us at all times, no matter what. And he learned that all suffering of God's people is temporary, but their joy Joy in the Lord is eternal. We ask of suffering. How long, O Lord? But we will not need to ask that question about the joy that is to be revealed. Because it will have no limit. This past week I was listening to a sermon on this passage from Toby Holt, PCA pastor in Mississippi. He reminded me of an old saying: the believer's best week in this life cannot be compared to the Intense joy of our worst week in the eternal life to come. But also the unbelievers' worst week here in this life Cannot compare to the utter misery of the best week they might have in the eternal death to come. The sorrows of this life are all the sorrows a believer will ever experience, and they are temporary. But the joys of this life are all the joys an unbeliever will ever experience. And they are temporary. So, what does professor experience teach us in our suffering? Perhaps the most valuable lesson of all: perspective. Perspective. We are made for eternity. And we are here for a little while. And what matters most is where our hearts stand before God and what we will where we will be when this short life is over. Let's pray Father, you're good to us, far better than we deserve. Your grace, your faithfulness Your goodness is abundant, overwhelming, generous, freely given. And we thank you. Help us to remember that when we're fresh When we can't do it, when we don't know why, when we don't know how long. May your grace strengthen our faith. May we be an encouragement to each other. May we lift each other up and may we be granted by your grace experience, perspective. perspective on who we are, on what we were made for, on where we are going, and what matters forever. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.