Romans chapter one. Romans chapter one We're going to be looking at verses seven to fifteen this morning. This is God's holy word. To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you. Because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of His Son, that without ceasing I mention you always in my prayers. asking that somehow by God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you, for I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you. that is that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine. I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you, but have thus far been prevented in order that I may reap some harvest among you as well as among the rest of the Gentiles. I am under obligation, both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your gospel. We pray That you would bless us as we turn to your word today, that you would speak to us by your Holy Spirit, that you would write your word on our hearts, that you would help us to understand it with our minds, receive it by faith. And that we would love Jesus and follow him better for the time we spend together in your word by the power of your Holy Spirit. And in the name of Jesus we pray. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Anything worth doing in life requires a level of commitment You have to have a passion for the thing that you're wanting to do. You have to have a clear understanding of your purpose in doing it, but you also need you also need guidance in how to do it. Most things you're not just going to be able to sort of figure out and wing it, not if it's going to turn out well and if it's going to be done right. About sixteen years ago I ran a half marathon for the one and only time in my life. I don't think my knees will permit me to build up to that distance again. But uh It was it was a wonderful experience to to train for that, to get ready for that. But you know it took it took a passion It took a purpose to be able to commit to that type of training that takes months and you know several days a week and hours of time. You know, my desire was to be physically fit And I wanted to achieve this goal. I had a purpose in my desire to be physically fit. I had a purpose. I'm going to run this half marathon in October. And it was so the training began in the spring And thankfully, my friend Dan Foster, who's the uh head coach of the cross-country team for FCA, he was wanting to train for a full marathon And he ran the Baltimore Marathon, and so he agreed to give me guidance. He had had experience as a cross-country runner, as a distance runner, and so he gave me the guidance that I needed to be able to do it and also the accountability to stick with the commitment. So there was passion, there was purpose, and there was guidance. And that's what you really need to accomplish something. It's true of almost anything that you want to really do in life. My kids have been into Legos and some of them have built some pretty impressive Lego sets. If you come to either one of my boys' bedrooms, if you can uh get in the door at times, but you can see impressive Lego sets. Multiple thousands of pieces. And that doesn't happen by accident. You have to have a passion for wanting to do it. You have to understand your purpose and what you're trying to accomplish, and you need guidance. You've got to follow that guidance carefully. Sometimes you miss a step and you don't realize it until a couple of pages later, and then you have to take apart what you've done and go back and redo it, and it takes hours and hours of time to do So this is true of a lot of things in life, whatever it is that you're committed to doing. What we see Paul doing here In Romans 1, in this section we're looking at, is he's he's setting his purpose really in why he's writing to the Romans, what he's trying to accomplish, and it connects to the passion of his life. And the purpose of his calling, but also we see how God's hand has been guiding him through it, through providence. Getting beyond Lego sets and half marathons or shed building or dieting or whatever other passion purpose project you might have, zooming out, what is the big passion and purpose of our life to be all about, really? What's it all for? Why are we here? What's the point? What should drive us? What are we trying to achieve? Well, one of the best answers to that question is the first question and answer of the Westminster Shorter Catechism. What is the chief end of man? What is the main purpose of a human being? That's what it's really asking, what is the main purpose of a human being? Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. We were made by God, we were made for God. We were made to know God and be known by God, to glorify him, and to enjoy him. But how do we do that? That's a big picture. But what What could sort of uh guide us in our purpose and how to do that? Well, the very next two questions of the Western Shorter Catechism answer those questions by following up So question two is what rule, what rule has God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him? And the answer is the Word of God. The Word of God contained in the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him. You know, some people would say, yes, I want to glorify and enjoy God, and I'm going to do that by running away and living off nature in the woods and hiding from everybody. And they'll say, well, though the Word of God would direct you probably in a different way. So you need the Word of God. And then the third question clarifies what the Bible is really all about. What do the scriptures principally teach? The third question asks The scriptures principally teach what man is to believe concerning God and what duty God requires of man. So you put these together Our main passion and purpose in life should be to glorify God and enjoy Him We glorify and enjoy him as we grow in our knowledge of him, especially of what we are to believe concerning him and of what he wants from us, and we get this from the Bible. Now, the way it's applied in each one of our lives is different. So we can have the big picture, but then it takes a lot of wisdom and discernment and prayer and Wisdom from other people to figure out what that looks like in our lives day to day. For me, as someone who's called to minister and called to the pastorate, I would say that I was made to glorify God and enjoy Him forever, and as I grow in my own knowledge of God and His will, I've been called by God to preach the gospel and to teach God's word to other people So that other people may also know God and believe what God has revealed about Himself and what duty God requires. This is my calling. It is almost immediately a burning desire that I go and teach it to others. Because that's the shape of my calling, is to be a vessel that God can flow truth and grace through, hopefully. Paul is an apostle. And even among the apostles, he had a particular calling in that he was a missionary church planting apostle. Not all the apostles were missionary church planting apostles, but he was. So sent-out apostle means a sent-out one, one sent out by Jesus, and his calling was to go and plant churches in places where there were not churches. In other words, to take the gospel to places where Jesus was not already known. That's where he makes clear at the end of Romans. So hit that's his call. He's got this set central passion that is the gospel of Jesus Christ and the good news of salvation, and that needs to be central to all of our uh passions and purposes in life. But how does that work itself out? He's saying, I want to go and take the gospel to people who don't yet know about Jesus. The way you live that out might be different. Jeremiah and I just got back from a visit to Covenant College, we returned home yesterday. Well we were there Thursday and Friday And one of the things that they emphasize at Covenant College, Covenant College is the college of the PCA. It's one of the schools we're looking at for Jeremiah for school next year. And one of the things I emphasize at Covenant is helping students to understand their big C calling and find their little C calling. All Christians have a big C calling and a little C calling. The big C calling for all Christians is the same. We are to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. We are to know God, be known by God, and make God known. We are to live with a passion for the gospel of Jesus Christ to shape everything that we do That is what we are made for. That big C calling is the same for every Christian. So when you read this from Paul, you should say, man, he is driven by the gospel. You see it again. I serve God with my spirit in the gospel of his son, he says in verse 9. And then he says in verse 15, I'm eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. We've seen this Good news of Jesus Christ is the center of how this is how God is known. This is how we know God. This is how we enjoy God. This is how we tell others about God That big C calling should be the same for every Christian. But then there's a little C calling, or your vocation. You know, the word vocation means calling. We talk about vocational aptitude tests or vocational training. That word is calling, comes from vocal calling. You have a little C calling. You may be a nurse, you may be an accountant. You may be a homemaker, you may be serving in the military, you may be a teacher, but you have that calling. And the one of the keys to the Christian life is to understand how does my little see calling connect to my big C calling of glorifying God and enjoying Him forever and being all about the gospel. And we'll talk about that a little bit later. But it's clear for Paul, as it should be clear for all of us, that the message of the gospel is not just an abstract message. It's not just, oh, I heard this, I heard this amazing thing. Let me tell you all about it. It's such an amazing message. It's not just about the message, it really is about The gospel is the way that God is glorified and that we enjoy Him. In other words, it's the way that God gets glory and His people benefit and thrive. So you see, you can read this heart here in this section. Paul is driven by the glory of God and the good of God's people. He says, to all those who are in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Even in that verse 7, you see this united. God is being glorified. He's showing his love. He's showing his grace. He's showing his peace. And we're seeing more of him, we're knowing more about him. And as he's doing that, we're being blessed. We're loved by God. We receive from God grace, that undeserved favor and kindness. Peace, that peace with God, and the peace that surpasses all understanding, that guards our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus, as Paul would write in Philippians 4. We are blessed as we come to know God better. And then he says, first I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. So he's thanking God, he's giving glory to God for the Romans. For the Roman Christians. And what about the Roman Christians? Not because they're politically influential, not because they're wealthy, not because they've given him a lot of money. Not because they are well connected with the with the levers of power and they can help him get into the inner circles of who's in charge in Rome. It's not any of that, it's their faith Their faith in Jesus Christ is proclaimed in all the world. That's bringing glory to God and all the world. And it also is showing that God has been gracious to them. Notice he thanks God for that. Why would he thank God for that? Why wouldn't he say, oh dear Roman Christians, thank you so much for your faith in Jesus Christ? Because Paul knows that their faith in Jesus Christ was given to them by God and didn't come from them. So he doesn't say, thank you so much for your faith in Jesus Christ. He says, I thank God, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. He says, For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his son, that without ceasing I mention you always in my prayers, asking that somehow by God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you. For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you. Again, he wants the good of the Roman Christians. He cares about them. That is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine. Sometimes in the Christian life, we can think because we're limited human beings and we don't We don't have the capacity always to put things together that belong together, and sometimes we separate things that shouldn't be separated. And one of the things that we can get sort of hung up in is truth and love. The gospel is good news. It's truth. It's God's truth for the world. And we can say we need to be bold in proclaiming the gospel. We need to stand for the truth. We need to be Unashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is next week's text. Absolutely. No one was bolder and more unashamed than Paul. No one suffered more for the gospel than Paul. But that's not separated from love. Love for people. Because the gospel is good news because it rescues people who are made in God's image and who fallen under the curse of sin and it brings them back to God. And it's for their good. And so that's why truth needs to be spoken in love, because God is truth and God is love, and when you actually separate truth and love and be like, well I'm just going to stand for the truth and like it or not You're actually tearing apart the very character of God, and you're not glorifying God because you're not giving a good reflection of who he actually is. God is not a mean, selfish, grumpy truth teller. He is truth. And he is love. And he is holy, and he is just and he is merciful, and he is compassionate. And only by God's grace can he give us the faith That allows us to grow and to reflect that. And one way to keep this in mind is to remember that The heartbeat of God. It's reflected so often in Scripture. We see it here in Paul. We see it in the Lord's Prayer, where we're Praying first for God's name to be hallowed and his kingdom to come and his will to be done on earth as is in heaven. But then we're praying for the good of God's people. Give us this day our daily bread. You know, forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass. The heartbeat of God is glory to God and good to his people. Glory to God and good to his people. And we can think of that as truth of the gospel and love for one another. We can think of that as bold proclamation and and tender compassion. These things are going together because they are the heart of God and that needs to be our driving passion. Paul loves the Roman Christians. It's evident. He loves them. He wants to bless them. The reason why he loves them, I think, begins with the fact that they're loved by God. If you love God, you will love what God loves. Been married for 27 plus years. And over the 27 years of marriage and three or four years of being together before we got married, I have come to love and appreciate a lot of things that I never loved and appreciated before because my wife loves them. And if my wife loves them, I should show some kind of interest. Doesn't mean we're necessarily going to have all the same passions. But You show some kind of interest because you love this person, and so what's important to them, what's really important to them, becomes important to you Well, how much more if with God? If we really love God, then we should love what God loves. And God loves his people, all of his people. On a human level, Paul had very little in common with the church in Rome. Paul was a Jew. He was from Tarsus. That's present-day Turkey. But he was really educated in Jerusalem under Gamaliel, one of the chief rabbis. He was close to the inner circles of the Sanhedrin. He was a Pharisee of the Pharisees. The Roman Church is a primarily, predominantly Gentile church. We'll get into this later in Romans because a lot of what he's doing is trying to help Gentile and Jewish background Christians to get along with each other. They live in Rome. They're in the urban center of the empire. They They just are very different, completely different background than him. But he loves them and he wants to bless them because they're loved by God And he knows that he can be blessed by them as well. I love that. Here's the Apostle Paul, right? The author of half of the books of the New Testament. the most successful missionary in the history of the church. And when he writes to these Christians in Rome, he says, I want to impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you. That makes sense, right? Of course he is the apostle and he's going to come and he's going to give us This great gift to strengthen us. But then he says, that is that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine. He says, I want to be strengthened by your faith too. He doesn't take this position of, well, I'm the apostle and I'm going to be dispensing the grace of God from on high. It's not going to want to come and I want to be among you and I want to be encouraged by your faith, which is known throughout the whole world, even as I encourage you. Paul's purpose, his particular purpose in this passion of the gospel, is to advance the kingdom of God in these in these two ways. First, here in chapter one, he mentions building up the church that already exists. He wants to build up the church that already exists by imparting a spiritual blessing to them. But then later in chapter 15 that we're going to look at in a minute, he's also wanting to partner with the church in Rome so that he can take the gospel to further places where people don't know about Jesus yet, where there is no church yet. So he wants to bless the church. How is he going to bless the church? How is he going to impart a spiritual gift to strengthen them? Well, he tells us in verse 15. He says, so I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. He wants to preach the gospel to these believers. They're already believers. They're believers of such a quality that their faith is known throughout the whole world that Paul expects to be encouraged by their faith But he wants to preach the gospel to them. Well, that tells us something about the gospel, doesn't it? The gospel is not just good news for lost people of how they can get saved. It's also good news for believers. Of how we grow in our knowledge of God and our love for God. Believers never outgrow our need for the gospel. Why is that? Why is it that we never get to the point where like, okay, I'm done with that 101 stuff. Now I'm in, you know, the 300-level class, or I'm in the 400-level class, I'm gonna leave that stuff behind. No, we never outgrow our need for the gospel. First of all Because we are all natural legalists. We are all naturally legalistic. And this is actually something that is prone to get worse in us. the more religious and dutiful we are. Because we just add to our list, our checklist. Of do good righteousness. If I do good, I'll be righteous And here's my do goods. I come to church. I give a full tithe. I don't fall asleep during Pastor Jason's very long sermons. I sometimes even watch his daily devotionals. I read my Bible, I pray, I'm checking the list, I'm righteous because of that. And the gospel says, no. We sang it earlier. Christ is all my righteousness. That's going to be the sermon next week. We try not to preach next week's sermon today, but it's right there. The second thing related to that is we're all also naturally self-righteous. The better we get at sort of conforming, the better we get at our checklist doing. the more not only do we have a do-good approach to righteousness, but we've become convinced that we've kind of arrived. You know, I'm a whole lot better than those people And it's true that we're better off. It's true. There is a difference. There is a huge, eternal, monumental difference between someone who is a believer who has come to faith in Jesus Christ, who has been born again, who has received eternal life, and someone who's still lost in their sin, cut off from God, alienated, without God, without hope in the world. There's a huge difference But it's not because we are self-righteous, not because we are better people, we're better off. We're blessed And the gospel reminds us of that. If I see a difference between me and my unbelieving neighbor, or me and my unbelieving coworker I don't get judgmental. I don't get arrogant. I don't get haughty. I might pity them. I might pray for them. But I realize there but for the grace of God go I. Christ has changed my heart. And then the third thing is in our tendency to be legalistic and self-righteous We tend to forget how great our salvation in Jesus is, and so we fail to be thankful and to praise Him as much as we should And the more we're reminded of the gospel, the deeper our gratitude is, and the stronger our praise is, because we realize we have been saved. We are being saved. We will be saved by the grace of God through Jesus Christ, not from ourselves. So he gets all the praise and all the glory. So we need to hear the gospel preached again and again. That's why we're we sang it. We're going to sing it again after the sermon because we need to hear it It puts to death our natural legalism and self-righteousness, and it deepens our praise and gratitude. So Paul wants to build up the church by preaching the gospel to them. But that's not all he wants to do. Turn to the end of Romans. We're going to get a sneak peek at the end of the book. Romans fifteen Romans fifteen, we'll start in verse seventeen. Listen to what Paul says is his ambition. Remember, we're thinking about what's his passion, what's his purpose. Another word for this is what is his ambition? What is his longing? What is his hope? Listen for those words in this passage. Romans 15, verses 17 to 24. In Christ Jesus, then, I have reason to be proud of my work for God. For I will not venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me. To bring the Gentiles to obedience by word and deed, by the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem all the way around to Illyricum I have fulfilled the ministry of the gospel of Christ. And thus I make it my ambition. to preach the gospel, not where Christ has already been named, lest I build on someone else's foundation. But as it is written, those who have never been told of him will see, and those who have never heard will understand. This is the reason why I have so often been hindered from coming to you. But now, since I no longer have any room for work in these regions, And since I have longed for many years to come to you, I hope to see you in passing as I go to Spain. And to be helped on my journey there by you once I have enjoyed your company for a while. So he wants to build up the church in Rome. But he also wants to enjoy their company and be sent by them to Spain. So think of the Mediterranean. Right? And think on the east coast of the Mediterranean you have uh Jerusalem and above that uh Syria and Paul's launching station was um the church at Antioch in Syria. And they launched him out so that he could go to Turkey and Greece. And that's all been covered. He's planted churches all over. Turkey and Greece. Well now he wants to go to Rome so that the Rome Roman Christians can send him to Spain, all the way to the other end of the Mediterranean. This is this is his passion. It is to take the gospel where Jesus is not yet known. So for us as a church, what's this mean for us as a church, of course? Well, it means we have a calling to build up the church here. By preaching the gospel to one another, by living out the gospel in community, to have our faith be well known throughout Forest Hill throughout Hartford County, we have a calling and a responsibility to glorify God by building up the church here. But that's not enough. We also have a responsibility to take the gospel to where Jesus is not yet known. That's why we partner with Reaching Africa's Unreached, to take the gospel into the Yumbe district of northern Uganda, home of the last unreached tribe in Uganda, the Auringa people, but then also into Sudan. In the Nuba Mountains of Sudan, there are a large concentration of unreached peoples, and then in the Republic of Sudan, more unreached peoples. So we are reaching Africa's unreached so that Jesus may be named where he's not already. It's also why we partner with Jacob Jason, who was here last week preaching. He does outreaches. You know, we'll have Thanksgiving time we'll have 60-some students who will be at the Ribber's house for a Thanksgiving meal. 95% of those students will not be Christians and they'll be coming from a cultural background that's not Christian. They don't really know who Jesus is. They've not really heard the truth about it. But we're working with RUFI so that these people from all over the world can hear the gospel and hear about Jesus. It's important that we do both. It's how God is glorified. And you might say, well, I'm not a gospel preacher, and I'm not a missionary. So what's my purpose in this? I got the passion. Yes, passion. Glory of God, gospel of Jesus Christ. But what's my part in it? What's my purpose in it? Well, that's where you talk about your little C calling and how that connects to your big C calling. And what is it? Well, God's gifted you in certain ways. God's given you abilities. Desires and opportunities. That's when I talk to young people about vocations. Like, what are you good at? What do you enjoy doing, right? And other people have said you're good at it. And what do you have an opportunity to be able to do? And actually, when you think about it like that, you don't have a little c calling, you have several little c callings. One of the problems Jeremiah is having as he thinks about what to major in in college. He's like Well, I could do this, I could do this, I could do this, I could do this, I could do this. And um so, you know, computer science or business as a major, but art as a minor, but also sing in the ensemble and also take some guitar lessons and also like But where does all that fit in? Well, first and foremost, whatever calling God's given you, do it with excellence and faithfulness. Do your best at it. If God's gifted you to do something, one way you glorify him is by doing it well Brad Boyles, who's the president of Covenant College, when he had us all gathered together for the opening session, he asked the question, do you think Jesus the carpenter made excellent chairs and benches? And the answer has to be yes, of course he did. If that was the work that God, his father, and Joseph, his earthly father, had given him to do until he was ready to be You know, he wasn't thirty years he was thirty years old when he went out. He did it, he did excellent work. Of course he did. So do excellent work. Whatever it is God's called you to do, do it to the highest standard. One way that connects to the gospel Might be people see your work ethic, they see your quality of work, and they say, you know, you are really good at what you do. And you might have an opportunity to say I believe this has been given to me by God, and that I glorify him best by doing it well. Wait. God? But you're an electrician! Yeah, I believe God's giving me this work to do, and I glorify him by doing it well. And then on a practical level, it also helps you earn an income that helps you support the mission work of the church. Because there are goers and there are senders. And taking the gospel to the nations. costs money. And so God gives you good work to do so that you can earn a living to support your family, yes, but to support his kingdom work as well. So that's how it's connected. Do it with excellence and with faithfulness to glorify God in your work and through your work. in the kingdom work of the church. Now, we need guidance. How do we get guidance? Well there's two ways we get guidance for our passion and our purpose. One is through the Word of God. That's the internal guidance. We sang it. May the mind of Christ my Savior live in me from day to day. As the Word of God, as we take in the Word of God, that's why the primary means of grace is the Word of God. The number one thing you need to do to grow as a Christian is to take in the Word of God There's a famous uh professor at Covenant College, uh Dr. Krabadom. And Dr. Krabadom is responsible for Jacob and Carol Lee being on the missionary field in Uganda, by the way Um and he has a little ditty that he sings when he goes around campus sometimes. And uh I've actually never met him But I want to someday. Anyway. But the little vitty is read the Bible four times a year. Four times a year. Four times a year. Read the Bible. And so he's he's a believer in like a 90-day Bible reading plan. And do it. And do it. That way you can read the Bible four times a year. Now I will confess to you, I've actually never done that. Um but I I do read the Bible every year in my personal Bible reading time. Apart from preparing devotionals, apart from preparing sermons, I read the Bible every year and I've been reading the Bible every year for decades. Because there's nothing more important to a Christian than reading the Bible. That's how we get our guidance on what we're supposed to do. But you know, God guides us another way too. God has two books. He has the book of special revelation in Scripture, but he also has the book of general revelation in creation. And corresponding to that, he has two ways he guides us. His word guides us internally, but his providence guides us externally. And we see that in this passage from Paul too, because Paul's been saying how he's wanted to come to Rome for years. For years he's been longing to come to Rome. And so when he expresses it, he says, uh uh without ceasing, I mention you always in my prayers, verse uh 15, verse 10, sorry, that somehow by God's will I may now at least last succeed in coming to you. Somehow by God's will. He's just submitting himself to the will of God. And then down in verse 12, he says, I don't want you to be unaware, brothers, that I have I have often intended to come to you, but have thus far been prevented. Why would he be prevented? Well he actually tells us in what we read in chapter 15 at the end of the book, because he wasn't done yet with the work that God gave him to do in the eastern Mediterranean. He still had more work to do there. So God's like, no, no, no, you can't go to Rome yet. No, no, no, you can't go to Rome yet. And you think, if Paul had gotten his wish, if Paul had gotten his wish and had gotten on the fast track to Rome years prior. Not only would those churches he was supposed to plant not get planted, but we wouldn't have 1st and 2nd Corinthians. We wouldn't have 1 and 2 Thessalonians. These are letters that he wrote Because he was staying in the field doing the work God had given him to do. And then, what's interesting if you know Paul's life, when he says in verse 10, he doesn't know what he's saying Always in my prayers asking that somehow by God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you. I think that's funny. Ironic. Because he's praying somehow by God's will. What was the answer to that prayer? Somehow by God's will. He went to Rome in chains He went to Rome as an unjust prisoner. That's not what he was planning. But that's how he got there. You think, wow, that that kind of stinks. Paul was a faithful Christian. Why wouldn't God put him in Rome in an easier way? Well, guess what? If he doesn't go in chains, then we don't get Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, or Philemon. So not only did Paul benefit But the church has benefited for 2,000 years because God's providence in Paul's life was hard. He didn't want to stay in the Eastern Mediterranean. You know what happened to him there? Read Acts. What happened to him on those missionary journeys? The most successful missionary of all time. Yeah, he was beaten, he was stoned. He was whipped, he was chased out of town, barely escaped with his life, over and over and over again. That's probably why you wanted to gather and go to Rome. Like, is it time to go to Rome yet? Run away from the crowd. Lord, is it time to go to Rome yet? Nope. It's hard providence. He goes there in chains, and that's that's no, you know, and they almost die on the way, the shipwreck that happens. He ends up on an island. Then he gets bit by a snake as soon as he gets here. It's hard providence. Listen, some of you are going through hard providences right now. We are not in control of our lives. We are loved by God, but we are not God. And that's a good thing. Because if I would have written the story of my life, cards on the table, if I would have written the story of my life, I've had a passion for the gospel from a very young age. I wrote my first book that I wanted to have published when I was twenty years old And I thought I'm going to be an author and a conference speaker, dispenser of wisdom. That was my 20-year-old dream of my life. I don't know. But that wasn't God's will. God's will has been better. God's will has been better. Because I I know myself well enough to know that if God had taken me down that path, I would be even more insufferably arrogant than I am already. Like, just so puffed up with pride. But God said, no, you're not going to get that path. You're going to go the way that I want you to go because it's going to be better for you and better for the church. We don't need more celebrity pastor best-selling authors. We really don't. We've got a lot of them already. Hard providences. They are not what we would have written for ourselves, but they are not a mistake. They are not derailing us from God's purpose or plan for our lives. They are ordered by love. They are given with wisdom. And they are how we will fulfill God's purpose for our lives. So what's our conclusion from this glimpse into the heart of Paul? It's this. I think. There's nothing more important that we can do in life than passionately pursue faithful gospel service in whatever way that God has called us and equipped us. We can have no greater passion than for the glory of God and the eternal good of his people. We can have no greater purpose than to love the church and to be a part of what God is doing for the advancement of the gospel kingdom in this world. And we can do no better than to trust His providence in how He will lead us, how He will guide us, how He will provide for us through this. Always keeping our eyes on Jesus and his gospel and his kingdom, but accepting. Accepting even with gratitude. the ways in which his hand of providence redirects our story from the way we thought it was going to go. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your love for us Thank you so much for your faithfulness to us. You're a good God. You're so much better to us than we deserve. We're humbled by that, and we thank you for that. Thank you that Jesus, our Savior, is our righteousness and our peace and our glory and our joy. May we live lives that are truly Christ-centered, kingdom-minded, and that humbly submit to your providence. We pray this all, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen.