Good morning and welcome to Journey Through Acts. This is a devotional series through the book of Acts in which we are re-presenting Presenting devotional studies that were done in Acts as part of our three-year journey through the Bible that we did as a church from 2022 to 2024. Let's turn our attention now to God's Word. Good morning, Forest Hill family. Welcome to Walking with Jesus one chapter per day. I'm Michael Talercio, pastoral intern of Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and you're joining us for day four hundred and ninety-seven. We're looking at Acts chapter seventeen, a personal favorite of mine. Why don't we go ahead and ask for the Lord's help and then we'll look at his word? Let's pray. Father, thank you that you have given us another day and another opportunity for us to be in fellowship with you as we Come before you now, we pray your word would penetrate our hearts, that it would uproot any lies that we are prone to believe and that we do believe about you. We pray that we would be refreshed by this word from the Apostle Paul about his ministry and about you through him, Lord, we would be transformed to trust you more, to know you more. And to live for you more uh fully. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Okay, we're looking at Acts chapter 17. Now, when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. And Paul went in as was his custom. And on three Sabbath days he reasoned with them from the scriptures, explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead. and saying, This Jesus whom I proclaim to you is the Christ. And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a great many of the devout Greeks, and not a few of the leading women But the Jews were jealous, and taking some wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out to the crowd. And when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, shouting, These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also, and Jason has received them And they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard these things and when they had taken money as security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea, and when they arrived they went into the Jewish synagogue Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica. They received the word with all eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were so. Many of them therefore believed, with not a few Greek women of high standing as well as men. But when the Jews from Thessalonica learned that the word of God was proclaimed by Paul at Berea also They came there too, agitating and stirring up the crowds. Then the brothers immediately sent Paul off on his way to the sea, but Silas and Timothy remained there. Those who conducted Paul brought him as far as Athens, and after receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they departed. Now, while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw that the city was full of idols. So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also conversed with him, and some said, What does this babbler wish to say? Others said, He seems to be a preacher of foreign divinities, because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection. And they took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, May we know what this new teaching is that you are presenting? For you bring some strange things to our ears. We wish to know therefore what these things mean. Now all the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there would spend their time in nothing except telling or hearing something new. So Paul, standing in the midst of the Areopagus, said, Men of Athens, I perceive that in every way you are very religious For as I passed along and observed the objects of your worship, I found also an altar with this inscription to the unknown God. What therefore you worship as unknown, this I proclaim to you, the God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth does not live in temples made by man, nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place that they should seek God and perhaps feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he is actually not far from each one of us, for in him we live and move and have our being As even some of your own poets have said, for we are indeed his offspring being then God's offspring We ought not to think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and imagination of man. The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent. Because he has fixed the day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed. And of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. Now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked, but others said, We will hear you again about this. So Paul went out from their midst But some men joined him and believed, among whom also were Dionysius, the Areopagite, and a woman named Demaris, and others with him. Acts chapter 17 largely demonstrates for us what it looks like for people to hear the gospel, how people respond to the good news of who Jesus is. whether it be Jews or Gentiles. We see Jews interact with the gospel in the first portion of today's passage, from verses one to nine in particular, where Paul and Silas are in Thessalonica And this isn't characteristic of all Jews, but we do see Paul and Silas speaking specifically to Jews. On three Sabbath days, he's reasoning with them from the scriptures. explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead. And he's proclaiming Jesus to them. And how do they respond? Well, some were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas. as did a great many of the devout Greeks and not a few of the leading women. But the Jews were jealous and they incite a riot as a result. So we get the sense that there are some Jews who are responding to the gospel in faith, and we're being told here that Greeks and not a few, a good number of the leading women. uh are responsive to the gospel in faith. And yet the Jews, the those in this text here are rejecting this gospel message. And they go so far as to, as we said, incite a riot and they create this uproar that causes them to uh essentially search for these these men, Paul and Silas, who have been preaching the gospel. They've gone in to take refuge in the house of a man named Jason. Jason protects them. And then The uproar is such that the people in the city authorities are disturbed not because of the riot, but because of the content of the teaching that led to the riot. This is weighty stuff. This is something that people can perceive is a life or death sort of message Um it provokes these grandiose responses, either humble submission and faith or this big uproar, this riot. And it's interesting just the gamut of people that will respond to this message, some in faith and some not in faith, some in anger. We are told again in the next section that there is a group that will respond in faith, and it seems like the majority here in Berea do. And what they do is they take their copy of the Bible, their Old Testament scriptures. And they examine what they hear from Paula and Silas as they are preached to. And that's what we all ought to do. You may hear of the phrase be a Berean, uh it means just Check whatever you hear against the scriptures themselves. That's what we all ought to be doing. And in fact, the text calls these men more noble than those in Thessalonica because they received the word with all eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were so. We're also uh told again that there are a number of women at this time of high standing, as well as men who believe. We just see the the scriptures care to mention that both men and women are valuable in the Lord's kingdom, and it's important that both men and women respond in faith to the scriptures. We see God's love for both sexes uh here in in this passage to open their hearts and minds to the word and also to even to mention them in the scripture. And we see uh the de the Thessalonian Jews come again to Berea because they are hearing that Paul and Silas are quote unquote having success, uh, if if we want to put it that way, with the Berean Christians, the the Bereans, that is, who become Christians. um who are Jews, in fact, who become believers. And so out of jealousy they go, they stir up another, they stir up more dissension. And so Um Silas and Timothy are left uh there at Berea while Paul is sent off by way of the sea. You almost get the sense that uh they're trying to uh that maybe the believers here are are trying to kind of calm things down because anywhere Paul goes Uh it's make or break, you know, it's it's a it's a big deal and quite a response. And so um they send him off to Athens and while he's there, true to true to his his nature, um He speaks up in Athens. Now, first we recognize that he's provoked. His spirit is provoked within him when he sees idolatry all over Athens Remember, Paul is a Jew, and Paul is a God-fearing Christian. And so We might say that it is uh not something that sits well with him to see all of these idols all over the place. He's provoked. And so he does what he has been doing. He goes to the synagogue where the Jews are, the devout persons. He reasons with them, but he does something else in this section of text. And in the marketplace, every day he reasons with those who happened to be there. Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also conversed with him. So these are Gentiles uh through and through, Epicureans and Stoics. Uh these are people that are uh either like Epicureans would be, kinda given to hedonism, uh to philosophy, but uh sort of a w whatever will please me, uh that that will that is what I will pursue. Uh and and then you have the Stoics who are basically ascetics. Uh they are Um they have the stiff upper lip. Um you have two different groups of people and Paul is reasoning with them. So not only do you have the Jews and the Gentiles, you have the Epicureans and the Stoics. uh and Paul is conversing with them all. And notice how they respond. They say, what does this babbler wish to say? And yet others say he seems to be a preacher of foreign divinities because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection. They they kind of assume that he's preaching two different deities, Jesus and the resurrection. Clearly he's if if we know anything about Paul, he was preaching Jesus who is raised from the dead. Jesus is the resurrection, as he says of himself in John 11, I am the resurrection and the life. So you have the first group who are calling Paul a babbler, which as I understand it in the Greek, it just means somebody who kind of picks up and puts down seeds. uh as if there's really no sense to whatever it is that they're doing. They're just kind of taking things in and throwing things out. Uh they they call 'em a babbler, as we say in English here, just somebody who's talking nonsense. But others say that he's maybe a little more sober, but he's a preacher of foreign divinities. And then because Paul is preaching Jesus and the resurrection. He's not pulling any punches. He's not holding himself back from declaring the truth in order to gain a following with these people, as we sometimes think he is in this chapter. Because he's preaching faithfully, they take him to the Areopagus and they want to know what he's talking about. So uh he goes. Uh he doesn't shun the opportunity to go to the uh kind of like the the prime time setting of his day, uh the Areopagus, the the place where, as it says in verse twenty-one, uh people spent all their time in nothing but telling or hearing something new. So This is the marketplace of ideas, quite literally, where Paul is brought to. And what does he do? Well, he faithfully proclaims the gospel. And this time not to Jews, but to Gentiles, quite quite specifically here, the men of Athens, uh, who are themselves religious but who are not Jews, and we see how Paul addresses them. He begins by speaking to what he has seen. He understands that they have it made all of these various um m as as he knows them to be idols, but uh does he put it, um the objects of their worship He recognizes that they have created all of these idols. He speaks to that, and then he introduces them to who they have described as the unknown God. And he tells them that he knows all about the God that they don't know. And that introduction for his speech is instructive for us because sometimes we're tempted to believe that in order to appeal to non-Christians We need to kind of pander to their cultural sensitivities. We've kind of got to be become like the culture that they're used to. We have to get so uh deeply rooted in the culture that these Gentiles, these non Christians might be involved and invested in that that we kind of become like the culture, that we we sort of mirror the culture in the hopes that if they kind of understand where we're coming from and we can relate to them and we they we feel relatable to them that then we'll have a platform for speaking truth to them. And and I want to just say that Paul doesn't actually do that. He does address them uh in a in a polite way, uh in a respectful way, but he doesn't pander to their deities, to their idols. He he doesn't uh he doesn't address them in such a way where He's trying to get them to first like him before he's willing to speak truth to him. He's respectful. He treats them with a degree of uh honor, but he speaks directly to their problem. First by telling them, I'm going to tell you about this God that you don't know about. But then also by kind of inadvertently, not inadvertently, but indirectly maybe calling them out for for their for their ignorance, and actually for their folly. What therefore you worship as unknown, this I proclaim to you, the God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth Paul doesn't say that the God he worships is just one God among many. He doesn't say that the people should listen to him because this is what he believes to be true. He says that They, the people he's speaking to, were made by the one God that he worships, the God of who made the world and everything in it, the Lord of heaven and earth And then he corrects them and says, he doesn't live in temples made by man, nor is he served by human hands, as the as the people think that he needs to be. He doesn't need anything. In fact, he sustains and upholds his creation. He upholds the people that Paul is thereby speaking to. He gives them life and breath and everything. And God has determined and allotted periods and boundaries for people to live according to, to live in. Um with the intention that they would seek Him, that they would understand that there's this commonality to all of humanity. And that they would look for that commonality in their common creator, to feel their way toward him, to find him. He quotes a couple of their prophets there, uh maybe not prophets, but playwrights at least, Epomenides of Crete and Eratus. or Eretus, uh and some of the poems or some of the plays in which they they wrote these words. In him we live and move and have our being, and for indeed we are his offspring. These are Just Gentile writers that Paul is using to show that there is some kernel of truth in what they're saying, and that the truth is actually founded in God, the Creator. uh and in particular Jesus Christ. And we see as Paul continues to correct these men and women, his hearers, that he gets very specific. We ought not to think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and imagination of man. We're we're kind of being fools, Paul's saying, if if we think that the God who created us is made out of a substance that he created. like gold or stone. We ought not to be making God in our image because we were made in his image. And then even more clarity here. The times of ignorance God overlooked. But now he commands all people everywhere to repent. Repentance is central to Paul's presentation of the gospel, and it should be for ours as well. There is no true Presentation of the gospel message that is devoid of a call, an invitation, Really a command in a respectable way for people to repent if they're trusting in anything but Jesus Christ for salvation That's the effect of Paul's words in verse 30. The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent. What are they repenting of? They're they're being called to repent of thinking that God is has been made in their image rather than they in his image. They're being called to repent of their small view of God, of their downplaying of His authority, of their unwillingness to come to the true God In repentance and faith. They're having to repent for not repenting for not being humble before this true God For not knowing him as he really is. And Paul is not only calling people to repent, he's proclaiming good news to them. The times of ignorance got overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent because He has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed. And of this, of this message, of this news, of what he is proclaiming, God has given assurance to all by raising this man, Jesus, from the dead. This gospel message is trustworthy. It is sound and secure. It is worth staking your life on. Because this man about whom this gospel message centers was raised from the dead. Death isn't enough to stop this message from bearing fruit in the lives of those who will repent and trust in this God who has given us this man, Jesus, whom he raised from the dead. So may we take courage and follow Paul's example from today's passage, trusting in Jesus, the one who is our refuge, the one who is our safety, whether people mock us or whether they fall before the Lord in repentance and faith. We can know that they are going to fall before the Lord at some point on their knees. Every knee will bow before this Lord Jesus, whom we are called to proclaim and take refuge in today. Let's ask for his help as we seek to do that. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you've given us this assurance that we have that All men and women all over the world are commanded, just as we have been commanded, to fall before Jesus in repentance and faith. To know that there is coming a day of judgment by which you, O Father, will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom you have you have appointed, and you've made it clear to every human being. who that man is and that this will happen because you raised that man Jesus from the dead. Thank you. That we can submit to him now before We are unable to come before him in repentance. We pray that many would come before him now, that you would use us to call others to experience the joy and the privilege of being uh won by this king now. We pray that you would do that uh in in us and in in others through us uh for his glory. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, I hope uh that today you will go out in confidence in this gospel message. That God owns everyone, that there is one race of people that that God is the God over those people and that we're called to submit to Him in repentance of faith. I pray it will be a blessing for you as you do that. In his name. God bless you.