Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to Journey Through Acts. This series of Acts Devotionals was originally released as part of our three-year study of the whole Bible that we did together as a church from 2019. 2022 to 2024. Let's now turn our attention to God's word. Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, day five hundred and forty of our three-year journey through God's Word, and that brings us to Acts. 28, our final chapter in the book of Acts together, which will see Paul all the way to Rome. Let's pray, and we will dig into God's word together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword. Your word that it is a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. Your word that reveals to us your Son, who is the Word of God incarnate and our only hope for salvation. Be our teacher and our guide through Acts 28 today. Help us to see what you have planned for us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Acts 28. After we were brought safely through, we then learned that the island was called Malta The native people showed us unusual kindness, for they kindled a fire and welcomed us all, because it had begun to rain and was cold, when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks. and put them on the fire. A viper came out because of the heat and fastened on his hand. When the native people saw the creature hanging from his hand, they said to one another, No doubt this man is a murderer. Though he has escaped from the sea, justice has not allowed him to live. He, however, shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm. They were waiting for him to swell up or suddenly fall down dead, but when they had waited a long time and saw no misfortune come on him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god. Now in the neighborhood of that place. were lands belonging to the chief man of the island named Publius, who received us and entertained us hospitably for three days It happened that the father of Publius lay sick with fever and dysentery, and Paul visited him and prayed, and putting his hands on him healed him. And when this had taken place, the rest of the people on the island who had diseases also came and were cured. They also honored us greatly, and when we were about to sail, they put on board whatever we needed After three months we set sail in a ship that had wintered in the island, a ship of Alexandria, with the twin gods as a figurehead. Putting in at Syracuse, we stayed there for three days, and from there we made a circuit and arrived at Regium, and after one day a south wind sprang up, and on the second day we came to Putioli. There we found brothers and were invited to stay with them for seven days, and so we came to Rome. And the brothers there, when they heard about us, came as far as the Forum of Appius and three taverns to meet us On seeing them, Paul thanked God and took courage. And when we came into Rome, Paul was allowed to stay by himself with the soldier who guarded him. After three days he called together the local leaders of the Jews, and when they had gathered, he said to them, Brothers, though I had done nothing against our people or the customs of our fathers, yet I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans When they had examined me, they wished to set me at liberty, because there was no reason for the death penalty in my case, but because the Jews objected, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, though I had no charge to bring against my nation. For this reason, therefore, I have asked to see you and speak with you, since it is because of the hope of Israel that I am wearing this chain. And they said to him, We have received no letters from Judea about you, and none of the brothers coming here has reported or spoken any evil about you. But we desire to hear from you what your views are, for with regard to this sect, we know that everywhere it is spoken against. When they had appointed a day for him, they came to him at his lodging in greater numbers. From morning till evening he expounded to them. testifying to the kingdom of God and trying to convince them about Jesus, both from the law of Moses and from the prophets. And some were convinced by what he said, but others disbelieved. And disagreeing among themselves, they departed after Paul made one statement. The Holy Spirit was right in saying to your fathers through Isaiah the prophet, Go to this people and say, You will indeed hear, but never understand, and you will indeed see, but never perceive, for this people's heart has grown dull, and with their ears they can barely hear. And their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and turn. And I would heal them Therefore, let it be known to you that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles. They will listen He lived there two whole years at his own expense, and welcomed all who came to him, proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance. That is Acts chapter 28, the conclusion of the book of Acts. At the beginning of the book of Acts, we got our outline in the version of the Great Commission in Acts 1. 8 In Acts 1. 8, Jesus had said to the disciples, You will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in Judea, and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. So the flow of the book of Acts starts in Jerusalem and goes out to Judea and then to Samaria and then to the ends of the earth. And once the gospel reaches Rome Because all roads lead to Rome, and Rome is a hub that goes out into the far corners of the Roman Empire and even to the frontiers beyond. That's taking the gospel to the ends of the earth. Now Acts ends with Paul in prison in Rome. And from Rome in prison, he wrote Philippians, Ephesians, Colossians, Philemon, these prison epistles, which are some of the best doctrine and some of the most practical application of the gospel to life that we find in all of Scripture. He wrote those, while under house arrest, while chained to a Roman soldier. twenty-four hours a day, um, but having some liberty. So he was he was there. But let's let's back up a little bit and get Paul there by stopping first at Malta. The very interesting stop at Malta. Paul is here bit by a viper Well gathering firewood reminds me of a time when we lived in Georgia and my kids were helping me to get some firewood from the back porch area and bring it in to put on the fireplace. And right after Catherine, who was about four years old at the time, put down a couple of logs and walked away, a black widow spider crawled out. from the logs and right across the hearth. And I was like, oh, Catherine was carrying logs that had a black widow in them. Um And she's four years old. That probably wouldn't have gone well had she gotten bit, but the Lord was gracious to us. But Paul did get bit. And Immediately the native people say, Oh, this guy's a murderer. That storm in the sea that had them uh all in danger, that was to punish him, and he escaped, and now You know, now he's not going to escape. Justice has not allowed him to live. But Paul just is able to shake off the viper and he suffers no harm And some people take this incident here in Acts 28 and then the longer ending of the Gospel of Mark, which is probably not original to Mark, but anyway, they take that because it was in the King James Version and all that. So they take this Acts 28 incident, they take the longer ending of Mark where Jesus says you'll be bit by serpents and not harmed. And this is kind of where this uh snake handling tradition of some of the fringe elements of Christianity comes from. They say, well Paul was able to be bit and not harmed, and Jesus said, you'll be bit by serpents and not be harmed. Uh but if Jesus did say that, you'll be bitten by serpents and not harmed. It was about Paul here, and not necessarily about all believers as a normal course of life, but he was too uh foretelling what would happen here to the Apostle Paul if he did say that, and there's some reason to doubt that he ever did um because of that. Uh too much to go into, but I think at the end of Mark we dealt with that. I think Uh Mike did that uh devotional on act on Mark uh 16. You can go look that up. But anyway, so here uh Paul's able to shake the viper off. We know that. Falls in the fire, he's unharmed, and all the people think, oh, he's not a guilty murderer. In fact, he's a god. And the chief man of the island hears about this and wants Paul to come in and and visit his father who is sick with fever and dysentery, and Paul's able to pray for him, and God uses Paul to heal this man. And then all the people bring those who have diseases and they're cured. And Now, it doesn't tell us that the gospel went powerfully throughout that whole island and the whole island of Malta was converted to Christ. We explicitly don't see that. So this is, again, I've mentioned this before, but there are some who say, what we need for the gospel to be powerful in our world today is to have these apostolic signs and wonders. If only we could have the great miracles. that the apostles performed, there we would see uh, you know, the church advance and the gospel go forward and the nations converted. But Here we have an island where Paul did more miracles on this island than at any other time in all of his ministry combined, and yet what we don't see is that the whole island becomes Christian or comes to trust in Jesus. And had they, we certainly would have read it. But they don't. They honor him. They honor the whole group, and they give them whatever they need. So God used that to provide providentially for the remainder of the journey. But it is not miracles. Jesus did more miracles than anyone, and he saw fewer converts, only 120 believers by the end of his three and a half years of ministry in perhaps the village of Sikar in the Samaritan. But generally most people who heard Jesus, the crowds of thousands who came out to hang on his every word, were not converted. It takes the power of the Holy Spirit through the preaching of the gospel to save lost sinners, and God sovereignly does that, and he builds his church with the preaching of the word by the power of the Holy Spirit So Paul arrives at Rome three months after being on the island. They set sail in the ship of Alexandria. They go first to Syracuse and then to Regium. and then they go to Pusioli, and then they go to Rome. And when they're in Rome, the Christians receive them. The brothers, when they heard about us, came as far as the Forum of Appius and the three taverns to be us. They come from all over the city, all over the Roman area. to to welcome Paul. And this was a great blessing to Paul because he's been largely alone throughout this time. I mean, uh he's he's just been unjustly imprisoned and he doesn't know what the future holds, but here comes a great crowd. of believers to to encourage him. And he's given some liberty. He's allowed to be on his own with one soldier guarded to him. Of course those soldiers will work their way in shifts. And Paul is thankful for this. He's thankful for the relative liberty. He's thankful to be under house arrest and not in some stinking rotten dungeon where he's, you know, going to be mistreated. And so he has this opportunity. And of course, the Apostle Paul, of course, if he has an opportunity to share the gospel, he's going to do it. That's one thing we know about Paul. If he is given an opportunity to share the gospel of Jesus Christ, he is going to take it. And so he takes it. And he shares the gospel of Jesus Christ with the group of Jews, Jewish leaders who are there in Rome. And i it's quite an expensive uh time of sharing. There's a day appointed and they come and from morning till evening he expounds the scriptures to them, showing them that Jesus is the Messiah from both the law of Moses and the prophets. That's another one of those Bible studies. I would love to have been there for. Wouldn't you have loved to sit under the Apostle Paul's teaching for all morning and into the evening, hearing from him, from the scriptures of the Old Testament, the Hebrew Bible, why it is that Jesus is the Messiah, how he was perfectly foretold and anticipated in the law of Moses and of the prophets. What a great Bible study that would have been. And yet Some believed, but others were disbelieved. See, the gospel comes in and divides. It is a word of blessing. to those who believe, but the word of judgment for those who disbelieve. And that's exactly what Paul says here. He quotes Isaiah the prophet. Now what's interesting is in Isaiah 6 where these verses originally come from, the way they're they're translated to us out of the Hebrew, the emphasis is more put on the sovereignty of God in judging his people through the ministry of Isaiah. Here, the emphasis is put more on the human responsibility. These people's hearts have grown dull, and with their ears they barely hear, with their eyes they've closed. So, is it the sovereignty of God that hardens their heart and closes their eyes and ears so that he can judge them? Or is it the responsibility of man when he hears the gospel of Jesus Christ and he hardens his own heart and shuts his own ears. And the answer of course is yes. It is both of those things. The sovereignty of God is at work and the responsibility of man is at work as well. And those two things are in no way in contradiction with each other. In fact, they work together. So that God is always sovereign and man is always responsible. Do we understand exactly how that works? No. Why not? Because we're not God. So we have to be content to say, God is always sovereign, and his word brings judgment. But man is always responsible, and his unbelief brings judgment. So Paul continues there, we're told, for two years at his own expense, welcoming all those who come to him. proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ without with all boldness and without hindrance. And Paul reflects on this in Philippians chapter 1. That would be a good one. After the devotional, if you want to open your Bible to Philippians chapter 1 and read that, I'm not going to go into it because it would make the devotional really long. But Paul talks there about how His Roman imprisonment has really been for the advance of the gospel and even some members of Caesar's household, even the members of the Emperor's household and the and the the the palace guard have come to faith in Jesus Christ because he's able to proclaim the kingdom of God and teach about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance. And I will say, notice here in Rome, he's not doing any miracles. There's no signs and wonders. He's not healing the sick and raising the dead. He's simply preaching the gospel, teaching the Word of God, and the Holy Spirit is pleased to send. many, because that is how God works. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your powerful word. We thank you for your sovereign grace. We thank you for your Holy Spirit, who brings us to salvation Who brings Jesus to us and us to Jesus, who changes our hearts. We pray for those we love who have heard the gospel but have not believed. All of us have friends, family members, children, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, parents perhaps, who have heard the gospel. And they've not believed. We pray that you would be gracious to them and that you would turn. We pray that they would see their need and they would repent. We pray that you would be pleased to bring them salvation and that they would turn to you. and be saved. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that brings us to the end of the book of Acts. Have a blessed day in the Lord. Thank you so much for joining us for this time in God's Word. We hope it was a blessing to you. If you want to find out more information about Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, you can find that on our website, Forest HillPca. org. That's Forest Hill. com. Pta.