Good morning and welcome to our journey through Acts as we're going through the book of Acts. one chapter per day on Tuesdays and Thursdays. This is part of our devotional plan for 2026. Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays we're doing the Heidelberg Catechism. Tuesdays and Thursdays we're doing Acts and then Romans and then First Corinthians and 2nd Corinthians, etc. Most of these are being recycled from old devotionals that were done previously as part of our three-year walking with Jesus through the Word that we did from 2022 to 2024. Decided to go ahead and do this one fresh for this year, which is Acts 24. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and for your faithfulness to us. Lord God Almighty, we pray that you would teach us from your word today and write it on our hearts. Help us to know and follow Jesus. Help us to walk after the example of the Apostle Paul who said, Imitate me as I imitate. imitate Christ. May we be Christ followers, and may we be filled with uh boldness and conviction to testify to the truth that is in Jesus before a hostile world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well let's go to Acts twenty-four. And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders and a spokesman, one Tertulius, and they laid before the governor their case against Paul. And when he had been summoned, Tertulius began to accuse him, saying, Since through you we enjoy much peace, and since by your foresight, most excellent Felix, reform are being made for this nation in every way and everywhere, we accept this with all gratitude. But to detain you no further, I beg you in your kindness to hear us briefly. For we have found this man a plague. One who stirs up riots among all the Jews throughout the world and is a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes. He even tried to profane the temple. But we seized him. By examining him yourself, you will be able to find out from him about everything of which we accuse him. The Jews also joined in the charge, affirming that all these things were so. And when the governor had nodded to him to speak, Paul replied, Knowing that for many years you have been a judge over this nation, I cheerfully make my defense. You can verify that it was not more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem. and they did not find me disputing with any one, or stirring up a crowd, either in the temple or in the synagogues, or in the city. Neither can they prove to you what they now bring against me. But this I confess to you, that according to the way, which they call a sect, I worship the God of our fathers. believing everything laid down by the law and written in the prophets, having a hope in God, which these men themselves accept, that there will be a resurrection of both the just and the unjust So I always take pains to have a clear conscience toward both God and man. Now after several years I came to bring alms to my nation and to present offerings While I was doing this, they found me, purified, in the temple, without any crowd or tumult. But some Jews from Asia, they ought to be here before you and to make an accusation, should they have anything against me. Or else let these men themselves say what wrongdoing they found when I stood before the council, other than this one thing that I cried out while standing among them. It is with respect to the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial before you this day. But Felix, having a rather accurate knowledge of the way, put them off, saying When Lysias the tribune comes down, I will decide your case. Then he gave orders to the centurion that he should be kept in custody but have some liberty, and that none of his friends should be prevented from attending to his needs. After some days Felix came with his wife Drusilla who was Jewish, and he sent for Paul and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus, and he and as he reasoned About righteousness and self-control and the coming judgment, Felix was alarmed and said, Go away for the present. When I get an opportunity, I will summon you. At the same time he hoped that money would be given him by Paul So he sent for him often, and conversed with him. When two years had elapsed, Felix was succeeded by Portius Festus And desiring to do the Jews a favor, he left Paul in prison. Well, here we have Paul on trial. For the second time and for the first time before a Roman authority. So last time we looked at Paul before the Sanhedrin. And here we see him in front of uh the Roman the Roman governor uh Felix, the Roman ruler of that area. And You see that the Jewish people, the Jewish leadership is there. It's the high priest, Ananias, it's some of the elders, and then they have a hired spokesman, Tertullus. Uh Tertullis is, you know, sort of a professional orator, kind of get like getting a good lawyer, like getting a you know, slick suit, uh high-priced lawyer, is kind of the role that Tertullis has. And they're flattering, Felix. They're engaged in flattery and they're engaged in slander. This is Something that we need to keep in mind whenever we face opposition from the world. If we are being faithful to Christ, if we are following after Jesus, the world will Oppose us, and the world will slander us. And the world will just say all manner of evil things against us. Jesus himself warned us of this at the end of the Beatitudes when he said, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven, he said, Blessed are you when others revile you and utter all kinds of evil against you for my sake. And so he said this is this is going to happen. In fact the Apostle Paul, who's standing here in Acts 24 He wrote that everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. So we shouldn't really be surprised by it. And the same tactics of sort of flattery toward those who are in power and slander against God's people are still being carried out by the enemies of God's kingdom today. But what I want us to see is how the Apostle Paul reacted to this. Because what we don't see, the Apostle Paul did not slander in return. There's not name-calling. There's not mud slinging. He's also not getting emotional. He's not getting angry and indignant. And he's speaking the truth. Now, he is defending himself, and I think that that is entirely appropriate when the facts, the truth, are on his side. And so that's what he really focuses on. What he focuses on is verifiable facts. You can verify that it was not more than twelve days since I went out to worship in Jerusalem. They did not find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd. So he gives them the facts. I was purified. I was in the temple. There was nobody even with me. I didn't have a crowd. I didn't have tumult. And then and then he says, I think it was some Jews from Asia who, if they have anything to say against me, they ought to be here before you. And If you know the background of Acts, if you've been following us on this chapter-by-chapter journey, you know that when the Apostle Paul was in Asia, which is not like China and Japan, Asia is Asia Minor, which is present-day Turkey. When he was in Asia Minor, present-day Turkey, he was attacked repeatedly by Jewish people who raised up crowds against him and who you know, said horrible things against him. It also happened when he went to Greece, to Macedonia as well. And so he's had this experience. He's thinking it's probably somebody who saw me on my missionary journeys and who has something to say against because really in Jerusalem he hadn't done a single thing that would have offended anyone. Uh he had shaved his head, he was under a vow, he had purified himself, he was in the temple by himself worshiping So he lays out the facts, or he focuses on the facts. And then he says, look, if they want to bring charges, it's it's their responsibility to bring proof. They can't prove any of this, and they can't even say what wrongdoing they found when I stood before their council. And then I love this in verse 21, the Apostle Paul admits his own fault. He's secure enough in the truth. that he doesn't mind admitting when he has done something that he probably should not have done. This is so rare in our day and age. In our day and age, the way we're taught and conditioned by our culture is to defend ourselves and never apologize and never admit any wrongdoing. That is not a Christian pattern of behavior. A Christian pattern of behavior tells the truth. the truth that is on our side and the truth that may be against us. So he says in verse 21, I did this one thing. When he was before the Sanhedrin, last chapter, I cried out while standing among them, It is with respect to the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial before you this day. And Paul is admitting that by shouting that out in front of the Sanhedrin He took the Pharisees and the Sadducees and set them at odds against each other, and that had the potential to create a tumult and a disruption. Remember, he's being accused of wanting to cause a tumult and a disruption, of being a disturber of the peace. And Rome does not like a disturber of the peace. But he's very clear about when he did that. and where he did that and how he did that and that none of the rest of what he's being accused of is true. So he's speaking the truth. He's speaking the truth calmly. He's speaking the truth without personal vitriol, to be name-calling and slandering and throwing mud just like the people who are against him, and he's doing so humbly. And then, as you go further, what you see is that Felix decides to keep him imprisoned there in Caesarea because he's trying to appease the Jewish leadership. But he does talk to the Apostle Paul regularly. Part of it we're told here in verse 22 is because Felix has a rather accurate knowledge of the way. In other words, Felix knows about this new group of Christians. They're not even really called Christians yet by this point. They're just called followers of Jesus or people of the way, since Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And so he he respects Paul enough to say, Keep him in custody, but give him some liberty. Let his friends come and attend to his needs. In other words, Felix knows he's not guilty of doing anything. seriously wrong and yet he's a politician and politicians have to be political and he's trying to appease the Jewish leadership. The Apostle Paul takes advantage of this, and when he's brought back before Felix, his focus is no longer on defending himself. I love this about Paul. His focus is no longer on defending himself, but on testifying to the truth about Jesus. He sent for Paul and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus. He reasoned about righteousness and self-control and the coming judgment These are the things that Jesus himself in the Gospel of John promised that the Holy Spirit would do when he comes into the world. When the Spirit comes into the world, Jesus said he will convict the world concerning sin, righteousness, and judgment. So here it is. Sin, that's self-control, lack of self-control, righteousness, and the coming judgment. These are the things these are that's an example for us because When we get an opportunity to have that deeper conversation, that spiritual conversation, which we should be looking for, this tells us what to focus on. What is the righteous standard that God requires? Have we fallen short? Do we lack the self-control to do what we know is right? Is there coming judgment? Now, Felix was not converted. He was alarmed But that's because Paul was speaking the truth and kind of touching a nerve. He was Felix was being convicted. And he didn't want to be convicted. So he's alarmed. He says, go away for the present. When I get an opportunity, I will summon you. Felix is a i he's a politician, I've said that, right? He's a politician. One of the ways we know that, he's hoping that money would be given to him by Paul, and so he sends to him often to converse with him. Paul will take advantage of any opportunity. Paul's smart. He knows a couple of things. He knows that Felix knows that he's innocent. He's no longer even examining him about the facts of the case because Felix knows he's innocent. And he also probably knows that Felix is looking for a bribe, but he's not going to give him a bribe. And so as long as Felix is giving him an opportunity to speak, Paul is going to speak gospel truth. Faith in Jesus Christ, righteousness, self-control, coming judgment. He's going to stick on gospel themes. Now, in the end, he doesn't win Felix as a convert to Christ. And that's okay. We're called to speak the truth, to do so faithfully, to do so in love. Paul was respectful to Felix. Paul was respectful even to him. Listen, we need to wrap our heads around this because our culture just doesn't operate this way at all. Felix is a politician. who is keeping an innocent man in prison and who is looking for a bribe and who is appeasing the Jewish leadership. He's corrupt He's unjust, and yet Paul treats him with respect. He treats him with respect because What's more important to the Apostle Paul than his own personal freedom, his own political advantage, we might say, what is more important to the Apostle Paul is the gospel of Jesus Christ. and testifying to the truth of Christ to anyone who will give him an audience. There's a lot for us to learn from Paul here in Acts 24. Speak the truth at all times. Be humble. Don't get involved in mudslinging against opposition. Don't take a position that says you need to defend yourself at all costs, but you need to speak the truth. Be respectful to those who are in authority, even if you know that they are corrupt and unjust politicians. And always, always, always look for every opportunity to testify to the truth in Jesus Christ the gospel in our hearts and on our lips. May that be true of us today and always. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. Make us faithful and bold witnesses for the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. It is in his name that we pray Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me as we're journeying through Acts. Tomorrow we are going to go back to the Heidelberg Catechism, and then we'll be back in Acts 25 on Tuesday. And that'll be a pre-recorded one from a few years ago, but I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.