We are in Psalm 4 today as we begin our summer in the Psalms. So we have the general theme for this Summer in the Psalms series is security in the Lord. And we're going to be picking up a number of Psalms, mostly early on in the Psalms. So we begin with Psalm 4 today. Psalm 4 is written to the choirmaster, which means it was intended for public worship, with stringed instruments, a psalm of David. Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness. You have given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me and hear my prayer. O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies, Selah? But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. The Lord hears when I call to him. Be angry and do not sin. Ponder in your own hearts on your beds, and be silent, Selah. Offer right sacrifices, and put your trust in the Lord. There are many who say, who will show us some good. Lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord. You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound. In peace I will both lie down and sleep For you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. Let's pray. Father in heaven. We are kept by you every day of our lives. On good days, on hard days, on days of distress, on days of delight. We are kept by you. We are blessed by you. Father, teach us this truth that we might find our peace, our rest, our joy, our security in you, in every season of life. Write these words deeply in our hearts as we consider them together this morning. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. One of the surest signs of distress is an inability to sleep at night. When we want to say that something doesn't really bother us, we say, well, I'm not going to lose any sleep over it. Whether that's true or not. Or when we want to express that something is stressful, we might say that'll keep you up at night, right? Because At night, when we're alone with our thoughts, is when all those things swirl that we have anxiety about, and they sometimes keep us from falling asleep, or sometimes If we get up in the middle of the night, they keep us from going back to sleep. But of all the things that you've ever said, truthfully or untruthfully, you wouldn't lose sleep over. I'm guessing none of them would be nearly as severely distressing as being hunted by your own son. And your nation's army as they're seeking to kill you and all of your closest friends. That would keep anyone awake at night And yet it was in the midst of that situation, most likely, that David said, I will both lie down and sleep. Sleep for you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. We don't know for sure the circumstances of Psalm 4 because the title doesn't clearly indicate that, but it is written by David. And Keen observation here. It does follow Psalm 3. 4 comes after 3. And actually 3 and 4 have long been recognized as a paired set of Psalms If you look at Psalm 3, verse 5, it says, I lay down and slept, I woke again, for the Lord sustained me. And then Psalm 4 says, In peace I will both lie down and sleep, for you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. It's a morning psalm and an evening psalm. It's actually some of the few psalms that make a specific reference to time of day. So a morning psalm and an evening psalm, both written by David, and we know that Psalm 3 was written when he fled from Absalom, his son. And so it makes sense that Psalm 4 was also written at the same time. So perhaps Psalm 3, one morning when he woke up while fleeing Absalom, and then Psalm 4, as he's going to bed at night, and his men are all Also going to sleep. It seems to fit best. Whatever the situation, he's clearly in deep distress, and he's also not alone in that deep distress, because in verses four and five he speaks to those who are with him and who are around him. Absalom's rebellion, Absalom wasn't just a rebellious child, right, who disobeyed his parents and did things his parents didn't want him to do. Absalom led a bloody coup that drove David from Jerusalem with his 300 mighty men. And Absalom took the throne, was hailed as king, took over David's household, and sent the army of Israel in pursuit of David and his three hundred So this was deep distress that he's in. And so we can see the outline of this psalm fits well that situation. Verse 1: David is crying out to the Lord in his distress. Verses 2 and 3, he's speaking out against those who've brought him into such dishonor. Verses 4 and 5, he's calling his friends and supporters. to decide righteously to not sin in their anger in the face of this distress, but to worship God rightly. And then finally in verses 6 through 8, he speaks to the Lord again. and confesses that the Lord alone gives him real joy, peace, and security even in the midst of such dangerous distress. Now this psalm, while I think it does come out of a very specific life situation, it's general enough and was written for public worship that we can also benefit from it. And we can apply it to any time of deep distress in our lives. It may be a medical crisis that you're going through. It may be a family crisis that you're going through. It may be a rebellious child who's breaking your heart. It may be a strained marriage that is at the point of breaking. It may be overwhelming stress related to work or a period of joblessness or it may be the generalized cultural uh situation we find ourselves in that causes us deep distress. Whatever it is, this is a good psalm for times of distress. And David here as a man after God's own heart models for us how we should handle distress and what's the first thing, I said the first thing we should do when we are in distress. Cry out to the Lord. Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness. You have given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me and hear my prayer. Three basic requests right out of the gate. David is not dressing up his prayer. He's not giving a long introduction. He's not trying to impress the Lord with his flowery language. Right away, answer me. Be gracious to me. Hear my prayer. Three urgent requests. He needs God to answer him. He needs God to answer him by being gracious to him. To be good and to be kind and helpful, to show him favor and blessing. And of course, if God's going to answer and if God's going to be gracious, God has to first hear his prayer. And God is only going to hear his prayer if it is according to his will. And so when he says, hear my prayer, It's another way of saying, may this prayer be according to your will. May it be your will, so that you will hear it. This is what we're told in 1 John 5, verses 14 to 15. This is the confidence that we have toward him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests we have asked of him. David needs needs it to be the Lord's will to be gracious to him. Could make a reasonable case that this time David is in a disastrous, distressful situation of his own making Unlike earlier in his life when he was fleeing from King Saul and he was completely innocent, David has done some pretty boneheaded things to get himself into this situation. Why was Absalom rebelling against David? Well, the story begins when Amnon, who was Absalom's half-brother Set his heart, or more likely his just his lust, on Absalom's full sister, Tamar, so also Amnont. half sister. We can stop right there and say, we need to back up one more step because the way David got himself into this mess was by taking more than one wife and ending up with such a large and complicated and dysfunctional family So this setup of this situation between Amnon and Tamar, where Amnon lusts after Tamar and then takes advantage of her, and then he won't do the right thing, which is to ask for her hand in marriage because he realizes it was just an impulsive moment and he and he hates her more than he desired her and David refuses to do anything about it. As a as a father, he's just like, well that's terrible that that happened. Between two of my kids. I you know, wish that wasn't so. We actually don't know even anything about his reaction because it's completely silent, but we have good reason to know that he knew about it. Well Absalom knew about it and Absalom wasn't going to do nothing about it. This was his sister who was violated and he was going to get justice if his father, the king, wasn't going to take care of it. He would would take matters into his own hands. And so Absalom conspired to murder Amnon. Now David was distressed at this and decided he needed to take action because this was very publicly known, and so he banished Absalom from Absalom. ever coming back to Jerusalem. And then he relented and he let Absalom come back, but he didn't actually forgive Absalom and be reconciled to him. So they had this strained relationship because of this Ugly sin upon sin. But Absalom's back in the city and he begins to say to himself, My father the king doesn't really care about justice I'm going to see that justice is done. And the only way that's ever going to happen is if I'm king instead of him. And so he conspires together and he organizes this coup attempt And David is driven out of Jerusalem and he's put on the run. He's got 300 mighty men with him and the whole army of Israel chasing him down. And David needs the Lord to be great. gracious to him, to treat him with kindness and favor, and to help him, even though he does have some guilt here. Yet he knows that if it is God's will for him to continue his reign as king God will restore him. God will hear him and be gracious to him. David's confidence before God rests on two things, and we need to have the same two The two things that David is relying on is one, his covenant relationship with God, and two, God's past goodness to him when he was in distress. We see the first one when he addresses God as, O God of my righteousness. This is an unusual way to address God, O God of my righteousness. Now, what David is not saying here is, I am so righteous in myself That you should come to my protection because of my righteousness. That's not what he's saying. What he's saying is God is the God of his righteousness. In other words, God is the source of his righteousness. And if God is indeed the source of his righteousness, he will also be the source of his salvation. And here's how we apply it to us. We need to have right standing before God before we can expect rescue from God. Unbelievers will sometimes pray in a moment of crisis or a moment of panic, oh Lord, if you're there, please get me out of this. They should have zero confidence that God will hear or answer that kind of prayer. Because they do not have right standing before God. They are not in a covenant relationship with God. They are not righteous before God. They're enemies of God. They're estranged from God. Now God is so gracious that sometimes He does answer those prayers. and he uses it as part of the process of bringing that person to himself. But there's no ground, there's no basis for which an unbeliever should have any confidence before God to say, get me out of this trouble When they have no relationship with him, they have no righteousness before him, they have no standing before him. But if you are in Christ, you do On your best day and on your worst day, you have the same standing before God, because God is the God of your righteousness in Christ, Christ is your righteousness. Christ is all the righteousness you'll ever have, and Christ is all the righteousness you will ever need That means you don't need to butter God up by promising all sorts of wonderful things that you're going to do for him if he gets you out of it because he doesn't need anything from you. He's already given you everything you need. meet in Christ, but it also means that even when you have been a moron and you have just blown it big time. You can still cry out to God to be gracious. And you can still, if you are in Christ, you can know that He will hear you and He will answer. According to his wisdom. The second thing that gives David hope before God is God's past deliverance of him. When he faced Goliath, when he was in a very similar situation, being chased down by the king and the armies of Israel with only his mighty men, when King Saul was chasing him down when he fought the Philistines in battle and more. As we trust in God's promises. And we see God bring deliverance, it gives us confidence that He will do so again in the future or in our present distress. So, we need to rehearse two things to ourselves on a regular basis. We need to rehearse the gospel promises of who we are in Christ. You are an adopted child of God. You are righteous before God with a righteousness not your own that cannot be taken away from you. You are loved. You are killed. You are blessed. Whether you feel like it or not, those things don't change. And the second thing we need to rehearse is all the many ways that God has been good to us. So preach the gospel to yourself and practice intentional thanksgiving because those will build up your confidence when the next distress comes. You'll have those two hopes to stand on. Second thing that David does is he addresses the men who have brought him into this dishonor in verses 2 and 3. O men! How long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. The Lord hears when I call to him. David's opponents had turned his honor into shame by lying about him. Absalom spread these false rumors around the city. The king doesn't have anybody he to hear your complaint because he doesn't care about justice. Oh, if only I were king, I would have someone appointed to hear your complaint. The fact is that David did have people appointed to hear complaints, but Absalom intercepted these people. And he lied. And so it was lying, vain words and lies, that turned David's honor into shame. You ever have somebody lie about you? Doesn't feel very good. By the way If you've had someone lie about you, and they didn't think you would know about it, and you found out about it later, and you remember how much it hurt you, Let that be a restraint the next time you are tempted to say something unkind or unflattering about somebody else. Because just as surely as you found out, we'll probably get back to them as well, David was lied about But you know what is interesting is that in verse 3, he doesn't boast in either himself or in his mighty men. He doesn't say, oh man, how long will you Turn my honor into shame. How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? Don't you know who you're messing with? I'm the guy who slew Goliath. You think I'm afraid of you? King Saul hunted me down for years and couldn't get his hands on me. You think I'm afraid of you He doesn't do any of that. He doesn't get self-righteous. He doesn't get self-boasting. He doesn't center on himself at all. He says, know that the Lord. Has set apart the godly for himself. The Lord hears when I call to him. David's confidence is that he belongs to God wholeheartedly because God has set him apart for himself. We call that electing grace. God chose David, God set David apart for himself. And it's God's sovereign, electing grace that not only gives David confidence But he wants his enemies to know that that is the ground of his confidence. He wants them to know that it's really the Lord that they're standing against. If we see the world opposing the gospel and the people of God with unwarranted hostility, Lies, slander. We just need to remember we belong to Him. Because he has set us apart by his grace. Not because of anything we did, not because of anything we are in and of ourselves, but because of his electing sovereign grace. And that is a greater honor than anything the world could ever give. And it is also a security that nothing in the world can ever shake. And so David could then turn to his companions in verse 4 and 5 and say, be angry and do not sin. Sin ponder in your own hearts on your beds and be silent. Offer right sacrifices and put your trust in the Lord. So you've been lied about, right? Most of you nodded when I asked. How did that make you feel when you found out what lies someone had told about you? If it didn't make you angry, I don't know that you're human. Okay. How does it make you feel when you think of some of the injustice That goes on in the world. When you think about people who sell drugs to kids Or people who traffic in human beings as property. Or people who oppress the weak. How does it make you feel? It ought to make you angry. There is such a thing as righteous anger. Jesus experienced holy and righteous anger when he went into the temple complex and he saw the money changers extorting people and the animal sellers extorting people and all of that business activity crowding out the Gentiles for being able to worship in the courtyard that was designated for their worship. However, and here's the big however, even anger that has a good and righteous cause Can and often does lead us into sin Paul quotes Psalm 4 in Ephesians 4:26, when he says this in 26 and 27, Ephesians 4, he says, Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger. And give no opportunity to the devil. When we let anger fester in our hearts Instead of dealing with it righteously, the devil gets an opportunity to manipulate us and lead us astray. You know the old saying, idol hands are a devil's workshop? That's true, right? Too much downtime, too much idleness, your curiosity and your imagination can often lead You astray. Idle hands are a devil's workshop, but if that's true, an angry soul is the devil's playground. Because we are so easy to manipulate. we are angry. And we can feel righteous about it too. Because they were wrong. We need to be careful. Instead of lashing out in anger, we're called to ponder in your own hearts on your beds and be silent. In other words, we're to meditate. on the causes and consequences of our anger before the Lord without allowing it to lead us into rash, impulsive, and destructive behavior. As we're pondering, one of the things that we ought to be pondering Is how many times we ourselves have done wrong. How many times other people have had righteous grounds for being angry with us? Or even more, how many times God has had righteous grounds for being angry with us, and how gracious he has been to us instead. Again, the gospel comes in to correct our thinking. God does not treat us as our sins deserve. He's gracious to us. His mercies are new every morning. And so when we ponder this in our bed at night, our response should be right worship, offer right sacrifices, and trust in the Lord, verse 5 says. do that? How do we offer right sacrifices and trust in the Lord? Well, Romans 12. Romans 12 gives us the answer. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. So actually a little bit better translation is which is your reasonable worship or your logical worship. It is what should naturally flow from looking at and considering the mercies of God. By the mercies of God, present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. How do we do that? What does that look like? Verse 2, do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. When we see, when we see again how God has treated us in his mercies How much we sinned, how much we've deserved his wrath, how much he's been good to us, what it cost him to be so good to us, the life of his son, his innocent son on the cross, when all of that is fresh in our minds. We should say, yes, Lord, I am yours, I am yours completely, body and soul, life and eternity, and that's going to change the way that I think and the way that I act. I'm not going to think like the world. It's so easy to think like the world. It's all around us. It's the air we breathe to think like the world. They're the problem in this society. We're the solution. That's the way that the world thinks. especially in our culture, as divided as we are, the natural way that our culture thinks is those people over there who vote that way or who think that way, they're the problem in the world. We're the solution. If only we had the power, if only we were in charge. You know who thought like that? Guess who thought like that in our story today? It wasn't David, it was Absalom That's Absalom thinking. Did Absalom have just grounds for being angry at his father? Yes. His father did not punish the man who took advantage of his own daughter. So, but it's Absalom who got suckered into that way of thinking of if only he was out of power and I was in power, then things would be right around here. David looked to the Lord. And David called his men to look to the Lord. He wasn't alone. He was in community. He was with a group of people, and he was encouraging them to do what he was doing. After he calls upon the Lord and asks for the Lord to answer him and be gracious to him, he says to his friends, look, I know you're angry Be angry, because this is not right. The rightful anointed king of Israel is sleeping in a cave or is sleeping on the cold hard ground. Surrounded by 300 devoted followers, while the armies of Israel are coming after me. This is not right. You should be angry, but don't you sin in your anger. Instead, worship God. Instead, worship God. That's what we need to do. Don't think like the world. Don't go along with the world. Offer a right sacrifice, and that is to say to God, I am yours. I will do what you want me to do. What is it you want me to do? And part of that is to understand that God's will for us, as expressed in His Word, is really better and wiser and more loving than our own selfish desires or the lies of the world. Sometimes we are never so wrong as when we are convinced that we are right. And we may be in the facts of the case, we may technically be correct. But if we go about it in a way that is selfish and demanding, then we've lost before we've even started. Right? I think I've told on myself on this before, but I think it'll be someone something you can relate to. And that is I spent the early years of our marriage. Trying to learn this lesson. Because every time I was convinced that this time I was in the right, and Beth was wrong, and she owed me an apology because I was wronged. Every time I like insisted on that, I was so wrong. I was completely looking at it from a self-centered viewpoint I was completely blind to where she was coming from, and I allowed my anger to lead me into sin. And it took me years to get past that. And now I never have that problem anymore. Don't ask Beth about it. Take my word for it. But it's it's so easy. But what we need to do is we need to in our righteous anger call upon the Lord. Call upon the Lord, meditate on his mercies, worship him, and trust in him. So, this is the pattern we have in verses 1 to 5. And it's so important because you don't get the fruit of verses 6 to 8 unless you follow the pattern of verses 1 to 5 So let's rehearse it a little bit. When we are wronged and we're in distress for whatever reason, we can either get dragged down by selfish anger and outrage, or we can turn and cry out to the Lord, remember his covenant mercies. and his past deliverances and worship him rightly, trusting him, even in the midst of our righteous anger. But we also don't need to be swallowed up by them and swept away by them. We can be righteously angry and still worship God. Asking for him for grace. And so if we follow that pattern, I think we'll get to the place where we reach the same wonderful conclusion that David reaches in verses 6 through 8. There are many who say to us, who will show us some good, lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord. You have put more joy in my heart than they have. When their grain and wine abound. In peace, I will both lie down and sleep, for you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. David finds from the Lord the light of his face shining upon him, and that giving him joy, peace. and security. The one thing David most needs, the one thing he asks for, the one thing when he says, Be gracious to me, O Lord, the answer he wants It's the second line of verse 6. Lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord. Here we are, your people, persecuted on the run. Here we are, lift up the light of your face upon us. That's what he wants. He wants God's grace, God's favor. Where did he get that idea? I think he got that idea because he paid attention in church In Numbers chapter 6, God tells Moses how to instruct the priests how to bless God's people. Following that? Number six, twenty-two to twenty-seven. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to Aaron and his sons, that's the priest. saying, thus you shall bless the people of Israel. You shall say to them, the Lord bless you and keep you You. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you Peace. At the heart of this blessing is this repeated idea: the Lord make his face to shine upon you, the Lord lift up his countenance upon you, and that is precisely what David prays for. Here's what it means. For God to bless his people in our distress is not for him to take the distress away It is also not for us to just be able to crush all of our enemies and win. It is for him to look upon us with favor. with kindness, with regard, to say, you are mine and I am yours. I am for you and I am with you That's the big prize that we need to know that in our souls. Knowing that Knowing that God is with him and for him, that God looks upon him with favor, that God regards him with grace, that gives David abundant joy, deep peace, and real security. You've put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound. In an agricultural society like ancient Israel, there's no more joyful time than the harvest, especially in a good crop year. Harvest feast for the big party of the year. We do it at Thanksgiving. It's a tradition. Right? We don't have any particular reason to do so around Thanksgiving because we're not farmers who brought in a great harvest, but that's originally when you would bring in the final harvest before winter. And if you had enough, if you had enough food stored up that you were going to make it through winter in an American context, but in uh Israel context through the dry season, because the middle between the harvest is the dry season when nothing will grow, then you rejoice. And you and you enjoy that by having lots of grain and lots of wine, lots of bread and lots of wine. And what David is saying here He is far from home. He is far from his palace. He is sleeping on the ground. There is no fresh drinking water available to him. He is on meager rations. Of a fugitive. And yet he says, Knowing that God is with me and knowing that God is for me gives me more joy here than the harvest festival. Pleasures of this world are passing. The best experiences you can have in this world, the greatest, most intense, wonderful experiences, the next day they're faded and gone. And you can easily get sucked into the trap of just chasing the next one and chasing the next one because they don't last. The favor of God is everlasting. It is eternal. It is unfading. In fact, when we pass from this life into the life to come, it will only increase infinitely. So from prison, the Apostle Paul could write Philippians, the Epistle of Joy, and repeatedly call us to rejoice in the Lord always. And then David. Concludes in the final verse with a strong statement of peace and security. In peace I will both lie down and sleep, for you alone make me dwell in safety. Peace and safety. The sure sign that David has found in the Lord, what he could find nowhere else, is that on a dusty, rocky cave floor or under the stars on the cold ground, far from the comfort of his palace. Oh, and guys, this is a middle-aged David. This isn't a young David. Some of you will know that camping was fun when you were younger. To get to a certain age and sleeping on the ground, no So this is middle-aged David. He's got grown kids, okay? So, and he's saying there, I will lie down and sleep. This is not the sleep of utter exhaustion that cannot stay awake and so falls asleep standing up or sitting because you're just completely shot. And it's also not the sleep that lays down but can't get to sleep because it's restless tossing and turning. I will both lie down and sleep is the sleep of peace. And it's a good sleep. It comes from having peace. In peace, I will both lie down and sleep. Most people in the world want this kind of peace. Most people in the world, if you said, how much would you give to have so much peace that you could lay down and sleep at night unperturbed? If you could package that. Here's the thing. Most people want this kind of peace, but they don't want the God whose gracious favor gave this to David. Wanting peace and not wanting God is like wanting to breathe without wanting air. God is our peace. C. S. Lewis put it this way: God cannot give us a happiness and peace apart from Himself because it is not there. It does not exist. Salvation is found in Jesus and cannot be found apart from him because he is salvation. It's like saying, I really want to go see the Statue of Liberty. But I don't want to go to New York City and I don't want to get on a boat. I guess you can see it from distance. No, I want to go To the Statue of Liberty, in it, up it, stand on it, see the view from it. But I don't want to go to New York and I refuse to get on a boat. Okay? Have fun with that. That's the pursuit of peace while refusing to believe in God and surrender to Jesus Christ. God is Himself our peace. And being apart from God is actually the root cause of all of the distress in the world. And I'm not saying that all Christians sleep well at night. But I am saying that there is a peace that is deep and eternal, and it only comes from God In the Lord's gracious favor, in the light of his face, when David finds joy and peace, he knows then and only then that he is truly secure. You alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety This is going to be our theme for the summer. God is our security, our safety, our refuge, our peace. He's the one we should trust in for all of those things. We can rest in him. In rejoicing and in distress, because he never fails and he never changes, on his last night with his disciples. After the Last Supper and before Judas arrived with the soldiers, Jesus spent hours teaching them. We have that recorded in John 14, 15, 16. And then his prayer in John 17. And in John, he tells them, I have said these things to you. That's how he concludes his teaching that night, the end of John. 16. God has not promised us a life in this world that is free from distress. In fact, he's actually promised us the opposite. In this world you will have tribulation. That's a promise of God. Put that on a bumper sticker. But the wonder of God's grace is not that he spares us from distress, but that his favor gives us deep joy, real peace. and true security through it all. Just as Jesus was able to sleep in the boat, in the storm, because he trusted his Father, when we learn to trust the Father and His love for us, we will rest secure in him. Let's pray. Father, thank you for loving us with a love that is strong and faithful. There is no one like you, as faithful, as strong, as unfailing. As able to give us joy, peace, and true security. So help us to worship you and trust in you and rejoice in you no matter what, for you never fail. Fail, you alone are our salvation in life and in eternity. In Jesus' name, amen