Turn with me, please, to Isaiah fifty-seven. Isaiah 57, as we continue in this wonderful book, we I'm going to say a few words of clarification before I read the passage. Our passage begins and ends with contrasting pictures of peace. There is the peace that the righteous man enters into upon his death, and then the lack of peace for the wicked that closes the chapter. And right in the middle, The first line of chapter 11, or verse 11, asks us a key question, whom did you dread and fear? In between, we have pictures of idolatry in the first half of the chapter and pictures of humble contrition in the second half of the chapter. So let's go to God's Word. Isaiah 57. This is the Word of God. The righteous man perishes, and no one lays it to heart. Devout men are taken away while no one understands. For the righteous man is taken away from calamity. He enters into peace. They rest in their beds who walk in their uprightness. But you draw near Sons of the sorceress, offspring of the adulterer and the loose woman, whom are you mocking? Against whom do you open your mouth wide and stick out your tongue? Are you not children of transgression, the offspring of deceit, you who burn with lust among the oaks under every green tree, who slaughter your children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks? Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion. They, they are your lot. To them you have poured out a drink offering, you have brought a grain offering. Shall I relent for these things? On a high and lofty mountain you have set your bed, and there you went up to offer sacrifice. Behind the door and the doorposts you have set up your memorial for deserting me, you have uncovered your bed. and have gone up to it. You have made it wide, and you have made a covenant for yourself with them. You have loved their bed. You have looked on nakedness. You have journeyed to the king with oil and multiplied your perfumes. You sent your envoys far off and sent down even to Sheol. You were wearied with the length of your way, but you did not say it is hopeless. You found new life for your strength, and so you were not faint. Whom did you fear and dread, so that you lied and did not remember me, did not lay it to heart? Have I not held my peace even for a long time, and you did not fear me? I will declare your righteousness and your deeds, but they will not profit you. When you cry out, let your collection of idols deliver you. The wind will carry them all off. A breath will take them away. But he who takes refuge in me Shall possess the land, and shall inherit my holy mountain. And it shall be said, Build up, build up, prepare the way, remove every obstruction from my people's way. For thus says the one who was high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place and also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly, and to revive the heart of the contrite. For I will not contend forever, nor will I always be angry, for the spirit would grow faint before me, and the breath of life that I made, because of the iniquity of his unjust gain, I was angry. I struck him. I hid my face and was angry. But he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart. I have seen his ways. But I will heal him. I will lead him and restore comfort to him and his mourners, creating fruit of the lips. Peace. Peace to the far and to the near, says the Lord, and I will heal him. But the wicked are like the tossing sea For it cannot be quiet, and its waters toss up mire and dirt. There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, righteous God, you whose name is holy, you who dwell on high, but also with those who are lowly and contrite. Humble our hearts before you, that we might fear you, that we might listen to you, that we might be led by your Spirit To walk before you with humility and faith and godly fear. That we might have your peace, that you offer to those far away and those nearby, any who will look to you and trust in you. Do that work in our hearts, we pray, by your Holy Spirit, in the name of Jesus At the end of uh the great children's classic Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Rold Dahl writes a dialogue between Willie Wonka and Charlie Bucket. And Willie Walker says, don't forget what happened to the man who suddenly got everything he wanted. Charlie then asks, what happened? And Wonka replies, he lived happily ever after. That's a very touching conversation. It's a very nice conclusion to a children's book, and it's just not true. And maybe every child reading this classic, of course, would be drawn in by this idea that you would get this chocolate and candy factory that's magical and that creates all these wonderful things with these umpa loompas. But in the real world, we realize that suddenly getting everything we want doesn't work out quite so well. People have won millions of dollars, tens of millions of dollars, in the lottery only to bring stress, conflict, and heartache into their lives. Singers and movie stars can work for years to achieve fame and wealth, and then when they achieve it, they realize how empty it all was. At a pastors conference several years ago, I had a conversation with a former Major League Baseball pitcher. He pitched for the Yankees and he won a World Series. And he told me, he said, the night we won the World Series was the best and worst night of my life. We finally did it. We won the World Series. But hours later, I was standing on a bridge thinking of ending it all. Because achieving what I had been striving for for years did not give me peace. Most people want their dreams to come true, but when they do, we find out the dream isn't what our souls need deepest. Our souls were created for something more than anything this world could offer. And God invites us in this passage. To turn aside from created things, turn aside from man-made things, from idols, from other pursuits, and find our peace in Him. And it begins with this picture of the entry of the righteous into eternal peace. The righteous man perishes. No one lays it to heart. Development are taken away. No one understands. For the righteous man is taken away from calamity. He enters into peace. They rest in their beds, who walk in their uprightness. One of the signs of the sickness of the culture in Isaiah's day was that nobody seemed to pay attention or care when righteous, faithful, godly men were dying. They were too focused on the important people. We see that in our culture, right? Our culture, what do we pay attention to? Well, the death of celebrities, right? Actors and actresses and singers and people like that. And you know, it's I understand that. Right? When when Gene Hackman died recently, it was like, wow First of all, I had no idea he was 95 years old. But uh and then just the weird circumstances of the death and all that, it it draws us in and we and we end up grieving for these public people that we never knew, but we saw them on screen or we listened to their music They're the people that are put out there. And yet when righteous, faithful men die, oftentimes their funerals are just attended by a few people. It certainly doesn't make the news. But God doesn't want us to miss what's really happening in the death of the righteous. They are entering into peace. They're being taken out of the calamity of this world, and they're entering into their eternal rest. I saw this quote online this week. From Alistair Begg. Death for the Christian is to fall asleep in the arms of Jesus and wake up finding out your home. That's the peace that is given to the righteous who walk upright in this life and enter into peace at death. And it's contrasted at the end of our chapter with the restless pursuit of the wicked who can never ever find peace. And the reason why the wicked never ever find peace is that they're worshiping idols instead of the one true God. And so in verses 3 to 13 we get this portrait of idolatry. And a lot of this language might be strange to us, but let's just take a look at it and I'll try to clarify it. There's really three forms of idolatry. uh that are present here. One is sorcery or witchcraft. Another is the worship of false gods, which involves making sacrifices, which even got to the point by Isaiah's day of people sacrificing their children in the worship of their false gods. And then it's uh making political alliances with foreign powers and and Sending lots of wealth to them in order to get them to uh to be on your side. So let's look at these verses again. But you draw near, sons of the sorceress. Offspring of the adulterer and the loose woman, whom are you mocking? Against whom do you open your mouth wide and stick out your tongue? Here's the idea that people who are practicing witchcraft or sorcery, they would say these incantations, they would say these charms or And with the very mouth that God gave them, and the very gift of speech that God gave them, those who should know God, because they're among the people of God, they're they're speaking this uh devilish uh falsehood. Are you not children of transgression, you offspring of deceit, you who burn with lust among the oaks, under every green tree, who slaughter your children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks Part of the language here of adultery is because God in His Word says that when we worship idols, we are committing spiritual adultery. He is our husband He has purchased us for himself. He has secured us to himself. He's made vows to us. When we turn aside to false gods, It's spiritual adultery. And under the trees they slaughter their children. We've actually excavated in Israel. ancient high places, um these pagan worship sites that are they're on the tops of hills and they've dug them up and what they find when they dig them up is buried clay pots that have children's remains. And then moving on, among the smooth stones of the valley is their is your portion. They, they are your lot to them. You've poured out a drink offering to them. You've brought a grain offering. Instead of bringing it to the temple to the Lord, they bring it to these false gods. Shall I relent for these things On a high and lofty mountain you've set your bed, and there you went up to offer sacrifice. Behind the door and the doorpost, you've set up your memorial for deserting me. You have uncovered your bed, you've made it You've gone up to it. You've made it wide. You've made a covenant for yourself with them. We're in covenant with God, but we enter into covenant promises with the powers of the world. You've loved their bed. You've looked on nakedness. And then foreign alliances come in in verse 9. You've journeyed to the king with oil and multiplied your perfumes. You sent your envoys far off and sent down even to Sheol. You were wearied with the length of your way, but you did not say it is hopeless. You found new life for your strength, so that you were not faint Whom did you dread and fear, so that you lied and did not remember me, did not take it to heart? Have I not held my peace even for a long time, and you did not fear me? I will declare your righteousness and your deeds, but they will not profit you. When you cry out, your collection of id let your collection of idols deliver you. The wind will carry them all off. A breath will take them away. When we hear this language of idolatry, I can almost see some of you tuning out a little bit like sorcery, witchcraft. Child sacrifice, idolatry, foreign envoys. This is literally, it's like 2,700 years removed from our lives. What does this have to do with us? What is going on? Well, it really is, at the heart of it, God's people Not trusting God to meet their needs, not fearing the Lord so that they will walk in faith and humility, but instead looking to the world and the ways of the world. to meet what they think are their needs or to give them what they want. Human beings are driven in our lives By two primary things that are kind of at the core of us. We either want to get what we think we need, or we want to keep what we have, and we're afraid of losing. We either want to get what we think we need or we want to keep what we have and we're afraid of losing. So that's desire and fear. And it's kind of the engine that fuels our actions. And fear is by far the more powerful of the two. The fear of being left out, the fear of being left out. left behind, the fear of not giving our children everything that they should have in their childhood, the fear of not getting everything that we think we need, the fear of dying. And so that's why the pivotal question in the middle is a question of fear. Whom did you dread and fear? Verse 11 begins with and then ends with, and you didn't fear me. The essence of it, of idolatry, is looking for something in the world that will meet our needs or will protect us from harm. Instead of trusting in God. And so, by this definition, anything can be an idol. Any combination of desires or fears that can drive us to false and substitutions for God. I'll give you some very common contemporary examples. So I'm stressed. I've had a very hectic week. I need to relax. And so I go shopping and I engage in some retail therapy. I can't really afford to do this. I'm putting it on my credit card, kicking the can down the road. Because I need more shoes, or I need more tools, or I need more fishing equipment, or I need more whatever. Or I really can't afford to tithe because I'm saving up for a vacation to Disney this summer. And we just how can we raise our kids without annual trip to Disney would be just wrong for them to miss out on that, so we can't really afford to tithe. Here's another one. I I I binge watch a series until 2 a. m. because my mind is restless and I need the distraction. I don't go to God, I don't pour out my heart before Him. I don't get into His Word. I just say, Let me just watch this show for one episode, two episodes, three episodes, four episodes, five episodes, and then I don't get nearly enough sleep and the next morning I just can't possibly get out of bed early enough to have time with the Lord before I go off to work. Here's another one. I'm living vicariously through my children and their sports achievements because it makes me feel successful as a parent All the things that I didn't get to do when I was a kid. And yeah, sometimes that means I have to miss church for months at a time because of weekend travel to tournaments, but I can't let them miss out on that opportunity. And besides, I made a covenant with that team that I would be there. Hmm, that's kind of language from here. Here's another one. I work way too many hours. I spend most of my making hours away from my family because my work makes me feel important. Or I need to make enough money to keep up with our lifestyle standards or whatever. But I'm too worn out after work to have family devotions with my family. I don't get home in time for dinner and prayer around the table. I'm really not up to praying for my kids at bedtime. And it's really hard to get up for church on Sunday morning because I just work so much. Here's another one. I've lost friends and I've broken relationship with family members because I'm always arguing about political things, because I'm just so afraid of what might happen if the other side wins. Why do we do what we know we're not supposed to do? Why do we fail to do what we know we're supposed to do? Why do we live like the world instead of like children of God is because something that we think we need and we're not trusting God to give it to us or something we're afraid of losing and we're desperately holding on These fears and desires, they're often two sides of the same coin. So if I desire approval from others, I fear rejection from others. If I desire peace of mind, I fear stress and uncertainty. If I desire comfort, I fear pain and discomfort. If I desire material prosperity, I fear poverty. If I desire to be important, I fear being humiliated or being irrelevant. When we have identified these things, we've identified the fear and desire that's driving this behavior, God is an invitation to us. Be contrite. That means realize This is stupid. This doesn't work. And it's directly against what God has for me, which I know is so much better. Be contrite. Confess it to God. And He is good, and He is wise, and He is loving, and He is sovereign, and He is in control, and we are not, and He welcomes us to walk with Him. Right in the middle of verse 13, we get the hinge. But he who takes refuge in me Shall possess the land, and shall inherit my holy mountain. If we take refuge in the Lord, Psalm 34 ended with, the one who takes refuge in him will never be content. If we take refuge in the Lord, we don't need to be afraid that the world is going to take away anything that God has given us that is for our good. God is our fortress, God is our refuge, He's our defender. Yes, we might lose our spouses. Or we might lose our jobs. But even through those things, God, we're not losing anything of eternal value that is truly for our good. Our spouses who die in the Lord immediately go into His presence, and we will be in his presence before too long, all of us. A job we've lost, God may have something other for us. Even uh sickness we go through, God keeps us in his hands through it. And also there's nothing that we desire. That won't ultimately be fulfilled beyond our imaginations when we are face to face with Jesus. When you're in glory, listen, when you are in glory with the Lord, You won't be regretting that you never did get that promotion at work, or you never did get that boat that you really wanted, or you never could afford that vacation home You will not care about any of those things. You will not be without anything. It will be perfect, complete joy. And so and so God promises this to us. Those who take refuge in me shall possess the land, they shall inherit my holy mountain. Jesus said, Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. And God ultimately says, I am your inheritance, and you are my inheritance. Here in Isaiah 57 he says, verse 15, Thus says the one who is high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy, I dwell. in the high and holy place, but also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly and revive the heart of the contrite. For I will not contend Nor will I always be angry, for the spirit would grow faint within me in the breath of life that I made. Because of his iniquity, because of his unjust gain, I was angry. I struck him I hid my face, I was angry, but then he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart. I've seen his ways, but I will heal him. I will lead him and restore comfort to him and his mourners, creating the fruit of his lips. Peace, peace to the far and the near, says the Lord, and I will heal him. So I I don't know where your heart is this morning We all come in here, this is what we're good at on Sunday morning. We all come in here and we all smile. And people say, How you doing? I'm doing fine. How are you? I'm doing great. Good to see you. Good to see you too. Alright, let's worship. And there's nothing wrong with that, you know. Not expecting that you come and just say, oh, let me tell you about the week I had, let me tell you all the burdens I'm carrying. But the result of that is we don't really know where one another is, but God knows your heart. You have no mask that fools him. He sees. What you're struggling with. And he has a word for you here for you. So you might be in a place where you feel like you've just blown it too much over and over again. You may feel too ashamed to really face God and seek Him earnestly from the heart. Verse 17 and 18: God says to you, I hid my face, I was angry, he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart. I have seen his ways, but I will heal him. I will lead him and restore comfort to him. Notice God doesn't say he's finally going to get his act together. And I'll be able to back off from disciplining him. He doesn't say that. He says, I've seen his ways. He actually continues in the backsliding of his own heart, but I will heal him. I will lead him. I will restore comfort to him. If we look to him, look to him. Or you may be in a place where you are patiently waiting on the Lord and you're tired and you're feeling discouraged. Look at verse 15. I dwell in the high and holy place, and also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly, and to revive the heart. of the contrary. God has renewal. God has revival for your heart as you look to Him. Or you may be in a place where you're fearful. Of what the future is going to hold. You don't know what's coming next week or next year for you or for those you love. Look at verses 13 and 14. He who takes refuge in me shall possess the land and shall inherit my holy mountain, and it shall be said, Build up, build up, prepare the way, remove every obstruction. from my people's way. It's helpful to me anyway. One of my kids, when they were little, when we were watching a movie, if it had any scary parts to it or tense parts or uncertainty, sometimes they would just say Pause the movie. Pause the movie. And I would pause it and they would look at me and they would say, Daddy, does this have a happy ending? And I would say, yes, it has a happy ending. Are you sure it has a happy ending? And I would say, yes, I'm sure it has a happy ending. Okay, okay, press play. But do you think the characters in the middle of the story know that it's going to have a happy ending? They don't know if they're going to survive the next attack or the next monster or the next uncertainty. That's where we are. We're in the middle of our story. And it seems uncertain, but we are guaranteed because Jesus is the resurrection and the life, and we are in him, and he is in us, we are guaranteed. The happiest possible ending. We are going to be in eternal joy and bliss, lacking nothing forever. No regrets, nothing lacking. God says, that's what I'm bringing you to. You can trust me. Or maybe you're here and you're just lacking peace And you keep looking for it in all the wrong places. God says to you, verse 19, peace, peace to the far and the near, says the Lord. Lord, and I will heal him. The world promises what it doesn't deliver. All the time. That's pretty much what marketing is, I think. The art of promising what you really have no ability to deliver. Sorry for any marketers in the room. But bad marketing is that way, we'll put it that way. But the world is constantly selling us, if you only had this, then your life would be so much happier. If you only had this, then you're, you know, you get that Jeep, and man, your life is going to be a big adventure. You are going to be out there, right? And you know, who doesn't want to jeep? But I'm not sure that it actually translates into the life that you have on the commercial, right? And so God says, I have peace for you. You've got to come to me. You've got to seek me. Turn to me. Fear me. Walk with me. The key for receiving these messages from God is that we acknowledge God for who He is. Verse 15 says, Thus says the one who is, high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity. Whose name is holy. There's only one. V1. He's high and lifted up. Now that has a double meaning from Isaiah. It means that God is exalted in glory. He reigns supreme over everything. But in Isaiah 52, at the beginning of the servant song, it says, Behold, my servant will act wisely, and he will be high and lifted up. And Jesus in John 12, when we looked at that passage, we learn that Jesus in John 12 said, I, when I am lifted up, will draw all men to myself. And John tells us he was speaking of the cross. So when we see the one who is high and lifted up is the one who is glorious and who reigns supreme over all things, but also is the one who was lifted up on a cross. To die for you and for me, to take away all of our sin, all of our shame, the utterly unique one, the supreme one, the exalted one. Hung on a cross in our place to bring us salvation, to bring us rescue, to bring us peace. He himself is our peace, Ephesians 2:7. says. He made peace by the blood of his cross, Colossians tells us. That's where peace is found. The Holy One, the transcendent one, the eternal God, the one true God. On a cross for us. We take our place as the contrite and the lowly at the foot of that cross. We come saying, Jesus Nothing in my hands I bring, simply to the cross I cling. Foul I to the fountain fly, wash me, Savior, or I I die. I have nothing. You have everything. I've been chasing the world and all of its false promises. It's left me tired. It's left me broke. It's left me frustrated. It's left me tearful. I need you. I need you. And we come in humility and in contrition, and God says, I will give you peace. The only other option is to just keep on the hamster wheel. Keep chasing And God closes it by telling us what that's like. It's like the tossing sea that cannot be quiet. It's waters. Toss up mire and dirt. I think this is part of the reason why Jesus calmed the Sea of Galilee on multiple times in his ministry. This passage here in Isaiah. This is what our lives are like without God. Without God is just a restless tossing sea, and we're holding on for dear life. And there's all this muck and mire being tossed up continually, no peace for the wicked. But remember when Jesus stood up in the boat, in the storm, with two words. Quiet, still. Immediately there was a great calm. It's not a gradual secession of immediately there was a great calm. Because he spoke and he alone has that authority. Now I'm not saying, please don't, I'm not saying that if you just turn to God, all your problems in your life are going to go away. Because earlier in the story, Jesus was asleep on a cushion in the stern, and they all were convinced they were going to drown. And after he calmed the storm, he rebuked them for their little faith. Because what they really should have done is have the faith that Jesus had that let them sleep in the storm and say, yeah, I'm in a storm. But God is in control. Yeah, I don't know how this is going to come out, but He does. Yeah, I don't know what next week might bring, but I know who has my eternity secure and He has every hair on my head counted. And he has written every day of my life in his book before one of them came to be, and I will trust him. And that brings great calm to us, even in the midst. of trials and circumstances. But the deciding issue, really, coming back to verse 11, which is the middle of this chapter and is the hinge, it really is a question of fear. Fear drives us so much more than we realize. Whom did you dread and fear? God says, so that you lied and did not remember me, did not take it to heart Have I not held my peace even for a long time? And you did not fear me? So fearing something Other than God is what puts us in this trap. Proverbs 29, verses 25 and 26, very relevant for life in our age. Proverbs 29, 25 and 26. The fear of man lays a snare But whoever trusts in the Lord is safe. Many seek the face of a ruler, but it is from the Lord that a man gets justice. When we're driven by the fear of man, we look to man to make things right. We demand that someone stop this outrageous nonsense and bring order and decency And so we put our hope and our trust in a man or in a government and we say, make it right. And that's a snare. It's a trap that Satan uses to take our eyes off the Lord and to draw our hearts away from him. It's whoever trusts in the Lord who is safe. Because it's from the Lord that we get eternal justice. And so the end, in the end, we must choose. We can center and anger our lives. On our own selfish desires and fears, looking to the world to give us what we think we need, to rescue us from what we're afraid of, or we can worship God at the foot of the cross, trusting in his sovereign rule over our lives, and we can find true peace in him What happened to the man who suddenly got everything he ever wanted? He did not live happily ever after. But everyone who belongs to the Lord Jesus Christ, everyone whose hearts and lives are surrendered to Him will. Forever. And 10 million years from now, we will be unbelievably peaceful, joyful, content, and satisfied. And we will have only begun to scratch the surface of the joy that God has for us. So, what's it going to be? Let's pray. Father, the world is full of idols. They wear more clever disguises in our day and age than they did in Isaiah's But they are real nonetheless. And they are just as tempting to our sinful human hearts. Father, satisfy our hearts with you. Anchor our lives in you. Turn us to focus on the cross, where Jesus, the righteous one, was high and lifted up to die. To rescue us from ourselves and from a world that cannot keep its promises. Help us to find our refuge in Jesus alone. It's in his name we pray. Amen.