Good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So going to be with you here. It's Thursday, our fourth day of week thirty-one. We're in the Gospel of John. We're in our third lesson in John, here in John chapter 1, verses 35 to 51 today. So the third, third, the final part. of John chapter 1. And today we're going to be asking the question, how can we testify to people about Jesus? And we'll see. Some powerful examples here in this section of how to do this. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father. Please speak to us through your word today as we are in the Gospel of John. Please be in us by the power of your Holy Spirit and teach us and grow us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. John 1, 35-51. The next day again, John was standing with two of his disciples, and he looked at Jesus as he walked by and said, Behold the Lamb of God. The two disciples heard him say this and they followed Jesus. Jesus turned and saw them following and said to them, What are you seeking? And they said to him, Rabbi, which means teacher, where are you staying? He said to them, Come and you will see. So they came and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour One of the two who heard John speak and followed Jesus was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, We have found the Messiah, which means Christ. He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, You are Simon, the son of John. You shall be called Stephus, which means Peter. The next day, Jesus decided to go to Galilee. He found Philip and said to him, Follow me. Now Philip was from Beth Seda, the city of Andrew and Peter. Philip found Nathaniel and said to him, We have found him of whom Moses and the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. Nathaniel said to him, Can anything good come out of Nazareth? Philip said to him, Come and see. Jesus saw Nathaniel coming toward him, and said of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no deceit Nathanael said to him, How do you know me? Jesus answered him, Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. Nathaniel answered him, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. Jesus answered him, Because I said to you, I saw you under the fig tree. Do you believe? You will see greater things than these. And he said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see heaven opened. and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. So here we have John's account. of the calling of the first disciples. And it's actually very different from what we read about in the synoptic gospels. It gives us a little more context for how early disciples were brought to Jesus. In in the Synoptic Gospels, it's, you know, they see Jesus sees Uh Peter and Andrew and James and John, two sets of brothers who are fishermen at the Sea of Galilee, casting their nets, and and he says, Follow me, and they immediately leave their nets and follow him. And that did happen. But there's some context in which that call happens. And this section of John sets context. So we see again what John is doing is kind of filling in the gaps. He's like, okay, you guys have read Matthew, Mark, and Luke. They've been around for a while. Let me let me fill in the background. Let me give you other information that's not in these other gospels. And so what we have here are good examples of personal evangelism. In just a few short verses, John the Baptist testifies about Jesus again. And he gets Andrew and and probably John, the gospel writer himself, to follow Jesus. Notice that Uh the second disciple is not really named. It's John standing with two of his disciples, and we're later shown that one of them is Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. When there's a disciple who's deliberately not being named, it's probably John the Gospel writer, or John the Evangelist, as he's called, as opposed to John the Baptizer. just to distinguish the two Johns, John the Baptizer, John the Evangelist, or John the Gospel writer. So it's probably who these two guys are. Well then we see Andrew And he gets his brother Peter to meet with Jesus and begin to follow him. And then Jesus invites Philip to follow him. Philip immediately goes and finds Nathaniel. to follow Jesus. And so in just the face of a short, a few short verses, right, we have five key disciples who become these followers of Jesus through personal evangelism. And what's also striking is the number of references to Scripture and images from Scripture that are drawn upon here to explain who this Jesus is. and what his ministry is about and why it is that someone should follow him. And what we're seeing here in these in this section is it's a combination of personal testimony I've seen this man, I've heard this man, and scriptural explanation. He's the Lamb of God, he's the Messiah. He's, you know, the one that Moses and the prophets wrote about. That that's the combination that is used to bring people to Jesus. So the first one who uses this is John the Baptist or John the Baptizer. He calls Jesus the Lamb of God. This is the second time in chapter one that we've seen him call Jesus the Lamb of God. So again, he's using scriptural imagery. He's saying, this is the Passover Lamb. This is the sacrificial lamb. This is the one who's going to save us from our sins and die in our place. And that is part of what moves Andrew and John to follow Jesus. Andrew then tells Peter, we have found the Messiah, the anointed one. That again is biblical language. He's using biblical language to explain who Jesus is. It's not just Hey man, I met this really great dude and he's so awesome and he says all these b m mega mind-blowing things, man. No, it's we have found the Messiah. He's the anointed one who is promised in Scriptures. That brings all the scriptural weight of what it means to be Messiah with it. So then Philip, he probably gives the the longest and deep deepest explanation when he goes to find Nathaniel. He says, We have found him of whom Moses and the law and also the prophets wrote. Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. So the personal experience is we have found him, and he even names him Jesus of Nazareth, son of Joseph. That's personal experience. We found him. His Jesus of Nazareth, son of Joseph, but also scriptural content. Who is he? He's the one of whom Moses and the law and also the prophets wrote. And finally, even Jesus himself uh does this. He has this combination of personal experience. I saw you under the fig tree. But then also scriptural explanation. You'll see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. It's a reference to Jacob's vision. of a ladder stretching the heaven down to Jesus in the god in in the book of Genesis. And it's an it's an Old Testament picture, which is a picture of Jesus. Jesus is the one who who bridges heaven and earth because he's true God and true man, he bridges heaven and earth. And the angels, the messengers of God, uh bring grace down from heaven and bring prayers up to heaven through Jesus. So it's an image, it's a symbol, but it's a it's a biblical picture. And so Jesus is using his own personal testimony. I saw you under the you know, when you were under the fig tree, that's uh showing this supernatural sense that he has because Jesus wasn't in the area when that happened, but then also scriptural explanation. I am I am the latter that Jacob solved That's who I am. So this is our clear pattern. The question is, how can we share Jesus with others? This is the clear pattern. Personal testimony informed by Scripture. It's a powerful tool to bring others to Jesus. So two things are needed for us to be able to offer this kind of testimony. First of all, we need to know the Bible well enough that we can have scriptural language and scriptural imagery. that we can use. And then we need to know Jesus well enough personally that we have a personal testimony of our knowledge and experience with him. So so we could say I was wayward, I was stubborn, I was foolish, I was like a sheep going astray, and Jesus, the good shepherd, sought me out and brought me to himself and now he leads me and I follow him. Or I was I was lost, I was dead in my sins, I was without hope, I was without God in the world. But Jesus died. to set me free from my sins. He rose again to give me eternal life. He drew me to himself. So it's a personal testimony, but it's not just a personal testimony. It's a personal testimony informed by Scripture. You have to know the Bible well, and you have to know Jesus well. Now you don't have to be perfect. You don't have to have all the answers, but you just have to have biblical language and personal testimony. And we can give people then what they really need. They don't need our opinion about current events or politics or sports. I mean, it's okay to talk about those things, but It's better to talk about the things that change eternity for people. The testimony of what God has done in our lives through Jesus, and the testimony of who Scripture says that Jesus is. It's my prayer that we would learn to soak in the Word of God and also to soak in the presence of Jesus in our lives so that we would have a testimony of how God's answered our prayers. of how God's given us hope, of how God's given us life and forgiven our sins, and through the scriptural language explaining who Jesus is as the Messiah and the Son of God and the Lamb of God. and the good shepherd and all of those wonderful things. So be in the word, be in prayer, so that you have a testimony to share with others. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for sending your Son Jesus to come into the world. He is the Lamb of God who takes away our sin. He is the Word of God made flesh. He is the shepherd who has come down to lead us out of the wilderness and into the promised land. He is our Savior, and you have changed our lives through him. May we have the courage and the boldness and the clarity to speak that truth to a world that doesn't always want to hear it, but they need to hear it. May we have the courage to do so. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me as we're walking through the Gospel of John together. We will head on to chapter two tomorrow. In fact, we're going to plan on covering a whole chapter in one day tomorrow. Hope you can join me for that. And I hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.