Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Five days a week we gather together to walk through the Gospels section by section and then pray a psalm. together. Today we're in Matthew 16, verses 13 to 28, and then Psalm 39. And in Matthew we're asking, Peter, why so brilliant and then so dull? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this day. Thank you for loving us with a love that is constant, faithful, gracious. Thank you for showing us our Savior and drawing our hearts to Him. Please write this word on our hearts today, and please draw us closer to you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew sixteen thirteen Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, Who do people say that the Son of Man is? And they said, Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say? that I am. Simon Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Then he strictly charged the disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ. From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem. and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from you, Lord, these this shall never happen to you. But he turned and said to Peter, Get behind me, Satan. You are a hindrance to me, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man Then Jesus told his disciples, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me, for whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, then he will repay each person according to what he has done. Truly I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death. until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom. Have you ever seen anyone go from absolutely brilliant To completely dull so quickly is Peter in today's passage. One minute, he's giving the first clear Christian confession of faith, a brilliant statement of who Jesus truly is, and then a few minutes later He's arguing with the Son of the Living God and is rebuked sternly for it. How can a man go from being called a rock to being called Satan in so short a time? Well I must confess that I have seen someone go from brilliant to blockhead faster than the speed of light Me. Peter's problem was the same that mine has often been. Everything's fine when we're listening to God and aligning ourselves with his truth, but when we start setting our minds on our own agendas, then everything falls to pieces in a hurry. Simon Peter saw the signs, and God the Father showed him their significance. Peter got it because God revealed it to him. Maybe he then got a little big for his britches. Maybe the revelation from God and the strong commendation from Jesus made him a little puffed up. Whatever the cause, the result was clear. As soon as Peter stopped setting his mind on the things of God and started thinking from a human perspective, he got off track and quickly. We need to make sure we are continually renewing our minds by word and spirit. grounded in the Word, renewed by the Holy Spirit, that we are continually calling ourselves away from the world's perspective or the perspective of our flesh. When we align our thinking with God's revelation, our lives are more fruitful for God's glory, and we are truly blessed. Alright, let's go to Psalm 39. To the choirmaster, to Jeduthan, a psalm of David. I said, I will guard my ways, that I might not sin with my tongue. I will guard my mouth with a muzzle so long as the wicked are in my presence. I was mute and silent. I held my peace to no avail, and my distress grew worse. My heart became hot within me. As I mused, the fire burned. Then I spoke with my tongue, O Lord! Make me know my end, and what is the measure of my days? Let me know how fleeting I am. Behold, you have made my days a few handbreads. and my lifetime is as nothing before you. Surely all mankind stands as a mere breath. Surely a man goes about like a shadow. Surely for nothing they are in turmoil. Man heaps up wealth. and does not know who will gather. And now, O Lord, for what do I wait? My hope is in you Deliver me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the scorn of a fool. I am mute. I do not open my mouth, for it is you who have done it. Remove your stroke from me, I am spent by the hostility of your hand. When you discipline a man with rebukes for sin, you consume like a moth what is dear to him, surely all mankind is a mere breath. Hear my prayer, O Lord, and give ear to my cry. Hold not your peace at my tears, for I am a sojourner with you, a guest, like all my fathers. Look away from me, that I may smile again before I depart and am no more. Psalm 39 is one of only two psalms in the Psalter that have this negative ending. Where it it just ends with a down note with not a a a triumphant hope. Now we're going to get there in Psalm 40. You always have to remember the Psalms were put together. So tomorrow we get to Psalm 40. we'll see the the triumphant note of hope. But if you're here, this is heavy. This is hard. And it's a reminder to us that we can pray to God even when things are heavy and even when things are hard. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, we live a life as a sinful human being in a world that is fallen and broken and corrupt and in rebellion against you, and that leads to a lot of hardship. Much of it of our own causing. We reflect upon how Peter could go from being so brilliant and insightful by the power of your Holy Spirit to being so thick-headed and blind to what was needed for his own salvation. Because he took his eyes off of Christ and he started thinking about himself and his own desire for glory in this world. And Father, sometimes we get to being in despair because we want what we want and we're not getting it, or we don't understand why we're surrounded by evil people who are doing selfish and wicked things and then being cheered on and supported by the masses of the people, or we have sinned and you're disciplining us for our sin and it seems really hard to bear up under the shame and the consequences of our own actions. Whatever it may be, Lord God, we find ourselves at times just in a deep, deep pit of Struggle. Sorrow. At those times, Lord God, would you hear our prayer? Would you be gracious to us? Would you turn to us? Would you relieve? The oppressive suffering by your grace and for your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels again. I hope to see you tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.