Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We've come to John 18. Just a few chapters left in our study through the Gospels this year. And uh this is a confrontation in the garden. And we're asking the question today, why did Peter strike with his sword? As we look at John 18, verses 1 to 11. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It is living and active. It is full of truth. It is powerful and penetrating. We need your word to penetrate our hearts and to show us ourselves and to bring us to Christ again that we might be Further redeemed and sanctified by Him. So we pray that you would do this work in us by your Holy Spirit in Jesus' name. Amen John 18, verses 1 through 11. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the brook Kidron, where there was a garden, which he and his disciples entered Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples. So Judas, having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees went there with lanterns and torches and weapons. Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, came forward and said to them, Whom do you seek? They announced, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them, I am He. Judas, who betrayed him, was standing with them. When Jesus said to them, I am he, they drew back and fell to the ground. So they asked him again, whom do you so he asked him again, whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus answered, I told you that I am he, so if you seek me, let these men go. This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken of those whom you gave me. I have not lost one. Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. So Jesus said to Peter, Put your sword into its sheath. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? John 18, 1 to 11. So, you know, we see Peter here doing something really rash and foolish, even for Peter. Draws his sword, strikes Malchus, the high priest's servant, cuts off his ear. The other Gospels, the other three Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, they tell us about this sword strike, but they don't tell us the name. of the assailant. John alone tells us the name of the offending disciple and also the name of the afflicted servant, Malchus. It's interesting. Most of the time in the Gospels when someone is named like this, it's because they later become a disciple of Jesus and join the church. That's how they would know who he was. So it's a little bit of speculation, but probably means that Malchus became a Christian, became a follower of Jesus following the resurrection. But John's the only gospel writer to tell us what happens immediately before Peter swings his sword. It's a crowd of temple guards and officials that come. In the middle of the night here to arrest Jesus. It's it's gone dark. It's after dinner they had together and all the teaching in the upper room and the prayer. They're out in the garden and they come to arrest him. They come in the dark. torches, lanterns, weapons. And Jesus simply says, whom do you seek? And they say, Jesus of Nazareth, and Jesus answers, I am Hmm. ESV says I am he, but Jesus simply says, I am. This is one of several places where Jesus in the Gospel of John says, I am, which is echoing back to Yahweh. the name of the Lord from the Old Testament. Remember, when Moses at the burning bush encountered the Lord, the Lord identified himself as, I am who I am. So tell the Israelites that I am has sent you. And so when Jesus says, I am in this singular, powerful way, and everybody is knocked back to the ground, it's great power and authority. He's identifying himself as Almighty God. So all these armed guards, they fall to the ground. And you've got to wonder, like, doesn't Peter see that Jesus is really in control here? Doesn't Peter see that Jesus knows what he's doing? Why would he even after that, why would Peter like draw his sword and strike Malchus's ear and cut it off? But we have to remember that earlier in the evening, Jesus had told Peter that he was going to deny him three times. And Peter, in his bold and brash way, had objected to this prediction, and he had pledged to stay by Jesus' side, even if it meant dying with him. And I think Peter was serious. I don't think Peter was lying when he said that to Jesus. He is showing here his eagerness that he's willing to fight. He's willing to fight to the death. He's going to try to help Jesus out of this tough jam. He's going to do everything he can to help Jesus out and help him to be victorious, even if he has to die in the process. Wait a minute. Does Jesus need Peter's help? No Wait a minute. How often do we think that maybe God needs our help to be able to accomplish his goals. This is a theme we see in scripture again and again. Remember Abraham and Sarah when they couldn't conceive and Sarah said, Well maybe you take my handmaiden Hagar because God said he would give you a seed, but he didn't necessarily name me. They thought they would help God out. This is a foolishness that's common to man when we think that God needs our help. Or when we think that our way of trying to accomplish the purposes of God would be better than God's way. But God knows what he's doing Jesus knows what he's doing. Jesus could have very easily escaped the situation. There were several times when people either wanted to make him king or wanted to kill him during his earthly ministry, and he just walked right away. Walked away from being stoned, walked away from being shoved off a cliff, walked away from being taken by force and made king. He could have done it again if he wanted to. Peter had seen that. How many times have we seen God provide for us? How many times have we seen God come through and make something right when we thought it was impossible, and yet we still think we need to try to help God out? Take things into our own hands, make things happen the way that we think they should. So why does Peter strike? He strikes because he's being far too human, far too much like us. thinking, I'm going to do what I can do to try to make things better according to my way of thinking and my way of seeing, instead of trusting God We need to learn the lesson from Peter here. We need to learn to trust God and put away our swords and find his peace and follow his plan. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are great. You are sovereign. You are good. May we support and submit. to your sovereign will by simply obeying your word and following your commands and not Taking things into our own hands, not trying to make things happen according to our own design. Forgive us when we are tempted to do that, when we give into the temptation to do that. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope that today's lesson was helpful to you. Hope you can join me tomorrow as we wrap up week 38. Have a blessed day in the Lord.