Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad to be with you here in our 39th week together as we're coming close to the end of the Gospel of John. We're in John 19, so just a couple more chapters to go. A couple more weeks to go in the Gospels together before we finish up this devotional journey. Today we're in John 19, verses 1 to 16. Jesus is on trial before Pontius Pilate. Pontius Pilate is going to condemn Jesus to death, which has been remembered throughout the centuries, part of the Apostles' Creed crucified under Pontius Pilate. But the question for today is, who gave Platius Pilate authority to crucify Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God, sovereign God, please speak to us today, through your word, that we might know you better, that we might live by faith more effectively. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him. And the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and arrayed him in a purple robe. They came up to him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews, and struck him with their hands. Pilate went out again and said to them, See, I am bringing him out to you That you may know that I find no guilt in him. So Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, Behold the man. When the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, Crucify him, crucify him! Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to that law he ought to die because he has made himself the Son of God. When Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid. He entered into his headquarters again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave no answer. So Pilate said to him, You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? Jesus answered him, You would have no authority over me at all, unless it had been given you from above. Therefore, he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin. From then on, Pilate sought to release him But the Jews cried out, If you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar. So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the pavement seat at a place called the stone pavement, sat down the judgment seat, sorry, at a place called the stone pavement, and in Aramaic Galatha. Now, it was the day of preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, Behold your king. They cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. So he delivered him over to them to be crucified. It is hard sometimes to submit to governing authorities. Especially when we see them doing wrong. It is hard to see our taxes used to support wrong-headed ideas. It's hard to obey laws that we believe to be misguided, not laws that require us to sin, but just foolish laws that we think are bad and we disagree with them. When we feel the weight of a flawed government hanging on us, and when we're tempted to resent that government and rebel against it, we can look to Jesus. Yes, I'm connecting. Jesus being on trial before Pontius Pilate and our quibbles with our government over the way they spend our taxes. and the foolish regulations they sometimes come up with. Even in periods of discontent with the government, we can look to Jesus for an example. Jesus today standing before an unjust governor one who ruled poorly, one who represented a a massively oppressive foreign empire. Jesus is face to face here with a man whose name has come to be synonymous with injustice. But we don't see Jesus lecturing Pontius Pilate on the principles of sound governance. We don't see him complaining. Rather, what we see is a calm and confident Jesus telling the truth in loving humility. Jesus' calm confidence is so deeply disturbing to Pilate that he repeatedly gets exasperated. One time as Jesus stood silently before him, Pilate said, You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? And I love Jesus' response to this. It is so faithful and so powerful. You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Later, Paul picks up on this truth in Romans 13 when he calls Christians to submit to the governing authorities. He says, submit to the governing authorities, for every authority that is instituted is instituted by God. Pontius Pilate, corrupt Pontius Pilate, flawed Pontius Pilate, had no authority except what had been given to him from God. The authority to crucify the Son of God, the authority to crucify the truly innocent man, the only truly innocent man in the history of the world, was actually given to Pontius Pilate by God himself by Jesus his Heavenly Father. Do we believe that? Do we believe that the power Pontius Pilate wielded as governor of Judea was given to him by God? It's what the Bible says. It's what Jesus says. Are you going to doubt Jesus? Here's something more. If we actually do come to believe that It gives us confidence and peace no matter what's going on. Think about the alternative Either Pilate's power was given to him by God, or some other power in the world is being exercised outside of God's sovereign control. There's power in the world that God is not in control of. Which of those is scarier? That God put Pontius Pilate in his position and gave him the authority he had so that the purposes of God could be carried out, even through Pilate's cowardice, selfishness, foolishness. Or Pilate was put into his position of power apart from God's will, which means that the world is not under the sovereign rule of God, which means We have no reason to expect that anything that happens in the world ever happens for a good purpose or according to God's eternal plan or has a designed outcome for our good and for God's glory. I mean, that's terrifying. But if we don't want a world spinning out of control, we have to believe that everything is under the control of our Heavenly Father, just as Jesus believed that everything was under the control of his Heavenly Father Believing this gives us assurance that any injustice that happens to God's people comes through the hands of God of our loving Heavenly Father and is intended by him for His glory and for our greater good, our true eternal good. That's what Jesus knew. He was facing the single greatest injustice in the history of the world. the shameful public execution of the singular, truly innocent man, the singular, truly good man in the history of the world, a man whose whole life was love and service. He faced that. And he did so trusting God. We need to trust God. Because there's a lot of stuff in this world that ain't right. And we know it. God's Word says it. Now, to say that God's in control doesn't mean that that makes it okay, that that makes it right, that that means God's happy with it. No. It means that God is in control of it. The world is not outside of his control. That's important. So we can face corrupt rulers, foolish rulers, our enemies, persecution. difficulty, economic trial, government shutdowns, whatever, we can face it all with a calm confidence that our Father who ordains all power and all use of that power is at work for his greater purposes, which are always for his glory and for our good. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that you are the sovereign God. There is no power above you or beside you. You reign supreme Help us to trust you. When things are difficult, when we're concerned, overwhelmed, stressed out, not understanding. Help us to trust you, for you are always trustworthy. So we ask this Father in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today on Walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope that this lesson was an encouragement to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow as we continue in John 19. Have a blessed day in the Lord.