We're in Isaiah 63, 15 to 64, 12, or what I like to think of what is should be just Isaiah 64. It's clearly one prayer. We have reference at the beginning and twice and then again at the end to pleading with our Father. Let's go now to God's Word. Look down from heaven and see, from your holy and beautiful habitation. Where are your zeal and your might? The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me, for you are our Father. Though Abraham does not know us and Israel does not acknowledge us, you, O Lord, are our Father Our Redeemer from of old is your name. O Lord, why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our heart so that we fear you not? Return for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your heritage. Your people held possession for a little while. Your holy people held possession for a little while. Our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary. We have become like those over whom you never ruled. Like those who are not called by your name. Oh, that you would rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains might quake at your presence as when fire kindles brushwood And the fire causes water to boil, to make your name known to your adversaries, and that the nations might tremble at your presence. When you did awesome things that we did not look for, you came down, the mountains quaked at your presence. From of old no one has heard Or perceived by the ear. No eye has seen a God besides you who acts for those who wait for him. You meet him who joyfully works righteousness. Those who remember you in your ways, behold, you were angry and we sinned. In our sins we have been a long time. And shall we be saved? We have all become like one who is unclean. And all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind take us away There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you, for you have hidden your face from us, and have made us melt in the hand of our iniquities. But now, O Lord, you are our Father We are the clay and you are the potter. We are all the work of your hand. Be not so terribly angry, O Lord, and remember not iniquity forever. Behold, please look, we are all your people Your holy cities have become a wilderness, Zion has become a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation, our holy and beautiful house where our fathers praised you has been burned by fire. And all our pleasant places have become ruins. Will you restrain yourself at these things, O Lord? Will you keep silent and afflict us so terribly? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we have here such a passionate plea from your prophet Isaiah. May it be a pattern for us as we seek your face. Teach us from your word and write it on our souls and transform us for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I wonder when you really need something and it's really important to you And there's one person who can give it to you, how do you ask for that? Do you ask in a way that is kind of mumbly and half asleep? Do you ask in a way that is just sort of rote and routine? Do you ask in a way that doesn't really expect to get a response? Do you ask in a way that's half distracted by other things? If you really need something, it's really important to you, and there's one person who can give it to you, my guess is you don't ask in any of those ways. And now let me ask, how do you pray? How do you pray when something is really important to you? It is Mother's Day and I think about probably the most desperate time of prayer in my life, probably, was the day that Beth became a mother. Best and worst day of my life. Those of you who don't know the story, you're thinking, what? Our firstborn was uh Primi. He was born almost 10 weeks early, and uh he had not moved in the womb for almost 72 hours before he was born. They had done like five sonograms and there was heartbeat and there was blood flow but there was absolutely no movement. It was completely still. We didn't know what was going on. And so they decided to go ahead and deliver him by C-section. And he weighed less than three pounds. And um We went into that operating room, you know, first time I'd ever been in an operating room with my wife. And, you know, I go in and and I just Just started praying. Started praying. Started reciting scripture. Started singing little bits of hymns And praying some more and reciting more scripture. And there was no distraction and there was no half-heartedness and there was no mumbling. It was focused and earnest and zealous prayer. And when we heard the little bird cry, of our firstborn. It was the most beautiful sound we had ever heard. But then Beth got sicker. She had a severe form of preeclampsia and uh for the 24 hours after Andrew was delivered she she crashed. And she wasn't looking good and it was rough. And they were talking about flying her out of there and taking her to the ICU at Johns Hopkins. And I that day I'm going back and forth. Her room, the NICU. Praying for her, praying for Andrew, because Andrew was born needing a blood transfusion, a platelet transfusion. And like, you know. It was a rough day, but it was a day of focused and earnest prayer because there was something that was very important to me. And I wanted it and I knew the Lord alone could answer, even though he used human means. And I rem I remember the last they were taking Beth's blood. every couple of hours to check on the platelet count. And it was going down and down and down and down. And they said if we this this next time it's down again, out, she goes. And uh Just prayed. The next time it was up. And then up and up. You know, and I think I my guess is that all of you have had a life experience like that, where something was so important to you that you just were focused in prayer. And now the thing is, do our hearts align with God's heart to want what matters most to God? Prophet Isaiah had a very difficult calling. Of all the people in Scripture, I don't know, Jeremiah went through some really, really horrible stuff, thrown into a pit, locked in them. dungeon, you know, lots of the prophets had hard things. But I just think about Isaiah, because the charge, the calling that he was given at the very beginning of his ministry. It's in Isaiah 6. And we, when we read Isaiah 6, we usually read it up to a certain point and then we stop. So, um if you have your Bibles, let's just turn to Isaiah 6, and you'll see what I mean It's a beautiful picture of this vision of the Lord. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above him stood the seraph, and each had six wings. With two he covered his face, with two he covered his feet, with two he flew, and one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. And I said, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. For my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar. And he touched my mouth and said, Behold, this has touched your lips, your guilt is taken away, and your sin atoned for. And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? Then I said, Here I am, send me. And we stop there, and that will preach. That's just an awesome passage. That's just, I mean, from beginning to end, it's like the call and the glory of God. It's wonderful. It is. It's one of my favorite passages in Scripture But we stop there. Here's the call that God actually gives him. And he said, Go. And say to this people, keep on hearing but do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people dull and their ears heavy, and blind their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed Then I said, How long, O Lord? And he said, until cities lie waste without inhabitant and houses without people, and the land is a desolate waste. And the Lord removes people far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land, and though a tenth remain in it, it will be burned again like a terebinth. Or an oak whose stump remains when it is felled, the holy seed is its stump. That is a calling. The only thing the only thing that could sustain Isaiah in that kind of calling Is the knowledge of the glory of God who called him That happened in the year that King Uzziah died, about 740 B. C. Here we are more than 40 years later. Toward the end of Isaiah's ministry. I know some of you might feel like we've been in Isaiah for 40 years. It's in fact only been three. But Isaiah had a ministry that was over 40 years long. And he's coming to the end of it. And It's been exactly what God told it was going to be. He's preached. There's been deaf ears. There was one sort of glorious highlight moment when King Hezekiah actually listened to him and cleanse the land and pleased pleaded to the Lord and the Lord gave this miraculous deliverance from the Assyrian Empire and their threat. But even after that Miraculous deliverance. It was just a continued decline, a continued spiritual apathy, a continued sin and compromise. Now, Isaiah had already prophesied of the eventual good that the Lord would do for his people, the future coming day of judgment and glory that we've looked at. in recent weeks and we'll be looking at it again tomorrow uh next week and the week following as we wrap up. But he's in this place And he's looking forward by faith, by vision, really, because he's a prophet. He's looking forward to a time when The temple's been burned and the cities are desolate. In other words, everything that he was told back in the beginning of his ministry, he's looking forward into the future and seeing it really is going to happen. And this prayer is coming out of that place. Two weeks ago. We looked at Isaiah 62, and in that passage we saw that there was this plea. God said to the people, On your walls, O Jerusalem, I've set watchmen all the day and all the night. They shall never be silent. You who put the Lord in remembrance Take no rest and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. And we talked about how this was a call for this radical type of persevering prayer that Jesus also called for in his teaching. Take no rest and give the Lord no rest until he establishes Jerusalem as a praise in all the earth. So that was 62. Now we come, this is, I believe, Isaiah's prayer in response to that call. Isaiah's a watchman. Isaiah is called to that ministry. So he's praying. And this is the way he prays. And it's a lament on behalf of the people of God, but here's what it is: it is a personal, passionate plea. To the Father to act on behalf of his people. And in that, it's a model to us for how we should pray. It is a personal, passionate Plea to the Father to act on behalf of his people If we understand the spiritual weakness and decay of the church in America today, our increasing captivity to the world and its agenda. We see the deep sin and the lukewarm spirituality and the compromised worldliness in our lives and in the church. If we long to see the Lord revive his church, and glorify his name among us and through us, then this prayer is a model prayer for us. Just see these three elements. It's passionate. Five times in this prayer, God is addressed with, O Lord. Do we have O's in our prayers? Oh Lord, oh God, oh Jesus. Do we pray that way? It's not only Isaiah's own passion, but he's also calling on the Lord to respond passionately. He says, Where are your zeal and your might? The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me. And that note held back from me shows us how personal this is. He says, you are our Father. He uses this pronoun we repeatedly and sometimes me because it's this personal to him and This is the clear thing. It would be so easy for Isaiah to say, I have been the faithful watchman on the wall. I have been the faithful prophet of God. I have said what God has given me to say. I mean, here we are, 2,700 plus years later, still reading the words that Isaiah, he'd be easy for him to say Those people, they won't listen to me. And they won't listen to you. Would you do something about them? What is their problem? Why are they that way? They He doesn't say that though. He says we our our iniquities our hearts our sin Is a corporate personal. Jesus taught us to pray, our Father, who art in heaven. He taught us to pray, give us this day our daily bread. Lead us not into temptation. but deliver us from evil. He taught us to pray in this way, personally, but on behalf of God's people. together and it's pleading. It's asking desperately for God to act decisively. He says some bold things. Rend the heavens and come down. He's asking God to take decisive and bold action. And that's how you pray for something that you really need. It's vitally important to you. So the first thing we see Isaiah asking God to do is to look down from heaven and see. Look down from heaven and see from your holy and beautiful habitation. And is Isaiah saying that God is unaware of the plight of his people? Is Isaiah saying that God is, you know, off on vacation? No He's asking the Lord to do what he has always done when he begins to move powerfully on behalf of his people. If you have your Bibles open, you can put a bookmark there in Isaiah 63, and you can turn back with me to the beginning of the book of Exodus. In chapter 2, chapter 1 kind of sets up how everything's changed from the days of Joseph, and now there's this slavery and now there's this oppression. And then chapter 2 goes into the birth of Moses. But then at the end of chapter 2, we see this. During those many days the king of Egypt died. And the people of Israel groaned because of their slavery and cried out for help. Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God. And God heard their groaning And God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. God saw the people of Israel And God knew. You see those four verbs. God heard, God remembered, God saw, and God knew. Now when you read that, humanly speaking, you might think, well, does that mean that God wasn't paying attention? That he had forgotten, that he didn't see? No. It is a covenantal attending to his people and their plight. And that's what Isaiah is praying. He's like, what you did then When you heard, when you saw, when you remembered, do that now. Hear my prayer, see what we're going through, and take action. That's what we need God to do. God is not, of course, absent from us, but we need to cry out to Him. And notice he calls upon God to look down and pay attention and care for his people as our Father and our Redeemer. Isaiah wants the Lord to look on his people specifically as our Father and our Redeemer. A father cares about the plight of his children. And here's the truth. A good father, a loving father, cares about the plight of his children even when it's their own stinking fault. You still are heartbroken for your kids, and you still care about them, and you still take action to help them Hopefully it's wise action that's not just enabling them to continue with self-destructive patterns. But you care because you're their father. And if you're their father and you're a decent father, you can't just not care You can't just like say, uh, I told you not to do that. You did it anyway. This is what I said would happen. See ya. That's not how a father acts A father might say, I told you not to do that because I didn't want to see this happen to you. You didn't listen to me. This happened to you anyway. Don't you understand that the advice I was giving you was loving and good advice because I didn't want this to happen to you Now I'm going to help you, but let's think about how we can avoid doing this again. Right? That's And that's what really Isaiah is looking for. Be a father to us because you are our Father. Our Redeemer from of old is your name. It's a prayer that's rooted in who God is. So often we just we just we don't even bother grounding our prayers, to be honest. We just sort of say to God what we want or what we need. It's totally coming out of our desires or our preferences or our circumstances. But Isaiah is saying, this is who you are, God. This is who you are. I want to ground my prayer in who you are. And I want you to act consistently with that. It's the same he he asks when he asks him to look down as the father and as um The Redeemer, he's asking for him to have compassion. He says in the middle there, the stirring of your inner parts and of your compassion are held back from me. This uh goes back to something we looked at just last week in sixty-three. at what should be the middle of chapter 63. It is the middle of that section we looked at last week, verse 7. Remember I will recount the steadfast love of the Lord, the praises of the Lord, according to all that the Lord has granted us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel that he has granted them according to his compassion, according to the abundance of his steadfast love. So we've just, you know, if you look at it just a few verses ahead in in Isaiah, even though it was a week ago. So Isaiah has just gotten done prophesying about all the good that God grants to the house of Israel according to his compassion. And now he says, so why Is your inner parts and your compassion held back from me? This is, by the way, this is a very deeply emotional language. This is one of those places where Bible translators are are they don't translate things literally I I'm generally in favor of as literal a translation as makes sense. But there are some times when a very literal translation doesn't make any sense because we don't use language in the same way that they use language back then Because what this word actually is talking about is a moving of the vowels. And if they had put in there according to the moving of your bowels, we have a completely different picture in our minds. It's not helpful at all. Because what it is, is really if you care deeply about something, you feel it in your guts, in your stomach. You know, we say our heart, I actually think they were more accurate, like if you're really burdened for something, you really care, it's really weighing on you, like your stomach hurts Right? Or is that just me? And so that's the word. Where is that deep care for us that is felt in the gut? By the way, this is also a very Jesus word, because there's a Greek equivalent to this word, and it's used of Jesus three times in Matthew, three times in Mark, three times in Luke. And by the way, in the New Testament, it's only used of Jesus. I'll give you a couple of examples from Matthew. Matthew 9, 36. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them. Because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. You know what comes right after that? The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Pray then to the Lord of the harvest to send workers out into his harvest field. Jesus is looking out at this mass of humanity who without a shepherd, he's deeply moved. And he tells his disciples, there's so much work to be done. Pray for the Lord to send workers out into his harvest field. Second one, Matthew 14, 14. He went ashore. When he went ashore, he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them and healed their sick. This is Jesus. This is Jesus responding. emotionally responding with movement toward people. Sometimes we Presbyterians have the reputation, you know, for being the frozen chosen. By the way, I have to commend you guys on your singing today. That wasn't Frozen Chosen singing. That was good. Chris is Victor and we give thanks and revive us again. Like that's good. Sometimes we Presbyterians have this reputation for being unemotional and stiff in our approach to things, and sometimes we can even think that honors God. You know, God is in control, he has ordered all things for our good and for his glory, so we will simply go through life accepting whatever comes. That's not biblical The Bible, Isaiah here, he was told forty-some years ago that this is exactly what was going to happen, and it's happening, and he's not okay with it. He's pleading to the Lord, we desperately need you Verse 17 of chapter 63, he says, O Lord, why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our heart so that we do not fear you? Now, is Isaiah's not blaming God for the sin of the people. Later in chapter 64, it's going to be very clear that he knows that it's their responsibility and he's confessing that in chapter 64 starting in verse 5 you meet him who joyfully works righteousness those who remember you in your ways Behold, you were angry and we sinned. In our sins we have been a long time. And shall we be saved? We've become like one who's unclean, and our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind. Take us away. There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you. For you have hidden your face from us and made us melt in the hand of our iniquities. That's such a powerful image. So here's what Isaiah is getting at. It's not that it's God's fault that we're sinning, but the only hope we have is if God would turn our hearts back to himself We don't have it's not in us. Like we don't have the righteousness in and of ourselves. Now that's not an excuse. Please don't hear that as an excuse for passivity. Well, I'm just going to keep sinning until the Lord makes me stop. That is not what I'm saying. But I am saying this, you cannot change your own heart. But here's the good news. If you even see that you need to have your heart changed And if out of seeing that need you start praying like Isaiah, that is the Holy Spirit working in you to start changing your heart. So don't give into despair, but no, this is God doing his work in me, and he who began a good work in you will be faithful to complete it in the day of Christ Jesus. But we need to plead to him. We go to God knowing that he's our only hope, and we're clinging to him for the help that we need. We we ask him to change us and to revive us and to help us to walk in his ways. We lament our sin, our hard-heartedness, our worldiness. Whatever that looks like for you, it could be an addiction to videos or video games, it could be uh uh wasting money on self-indulgent things that you know you're not tithing or you're not giving the missions and you have the money. It's not that you're in financial distress, but you have the money. But you go out to eat and you, you know, buy a new car and you and you say at the end, well let me see what's left over. Okay, let's put ten bucks in the plate because You know, it could be that. It could be how you're spending your time. Could be how you're praying. It could be your attitude toward other people. God says Jesus says the greatest commandment is to love the Lord our God with all our heart, mind, soul, and strength. And the second is like it to love our neighbor as ourselves. If you're not loving your neighbor, if you're bitter Jealous, spiteful, angry towards your neighbor, that's that's a heart that's hard and needs to change. It could be voices you're listening to that are drawing you away from the Lord, whatever it is, to go to God and say, don't, I love this image, but just Don't let me melt in the hand of my iniquities. Deliver me out of the hand of my iniquities. iniquities. Bring me into a place where I'm walking so closely with you that my heart is tender to your touch and sensitive to your leading and responsive to your word. And then Isaiah goes one step further, as we get into 64, but he goes one step further. He's not just asking God to change the hearts of his people and cause them to walk in his ways, but he also pleads for God. to take decisive action on behalf of his people. Oh that you would rend the heavens and come down. that the mountains might quake at your presence. I think here, too, he's thinking back to Exodus. Because at the end of chapter 2 in Exodus, God sees, God remembers, God hears, right? And then chapter 3, what does God do? He comes down from the heavens into a burning bush and the mountain quakes. So I think I think he has that exodus imagery in mind throughout this background of this prayer, which means which means Isaiah is thinking and praying biblically We need to populate our minds and our imaginations with Bible so that when we pray, we're praying in Bible ways back to God. For God to rend the heavens and come down is for God to act decisively on behalf of his people. You even have this image of fire kindling brushwood. Again, the burning bush, I think, is is in in Isaiah's mind, that your name may be known to your adversaries, and that the nations might tremble at your presence. This is a desire to see God act in a supernatural, powerful way among and through his people for the glory of his name. Specifically, because in this prayer, Isaiah is already seeing the destruction of Jerusalem and Judea. We could see that at the end of the prayer, the holy and beautiful house where our fathers praise you've been burnt with fire, your holy cities have become a wilderness. He's looking forward and he's asking for God to restore the people from the exile back into the Holy Land. And that's And that's a prayer that God answers, right? He does that. For us today We can use the language of this prayer to pray for God to powerfully revive his church, to send a heart-changing, life-transforming, Christ-exalting revival to his church. people to powerfully move in us in a clear and unmistakable way. But also, but also, you cannot hear the language of rend the heavens and come down. without thinking of the day when God will do that decisively and finally. The heavens will be torn open and the Lord Jesus will descend from the heaven with a shout of command. And it will be the day that we're longing for. So we pray, we use this prayer to pray for revival for the church now and also come quickly, Lord Jesus. Revive your church, take us out of the hands of our iniquities, help us to walk with you, but also come quickly, Lord Jesus. It's a sad commentary on the state of God's people at the very end of chapter 63, the last verse. We have become like those over whom you have never ruled, like those who are not called by your name. When there is no discernible difference between the people of God and the people of the world who don't know God, that is a sad spiritual concept. And there are so many measurable ways in which that is true in the American Church today. We need to re- realize that we we're acting like those over whom the Lord doesn't rule, like those who are not called by his name. When my kids were little and they would be fighting about something. It happened once or twice. A day. But when they were little and they were fighting over something, sometimes I would I would come into the room and I'd say, What are you doing? You're acting like orphan children. You're acting like you don't have parents who are in the house and who love you and who can help you. You just would rather Fight it out without any help. And that's us. Like Like, oh man, this thing stinks, I'm gonna make it right. You know, we get angry, we post something on social media or we or we or we say something or we whatever. It's like, wait a minute, what are we doing? Do we not remember that we have a Father in heaven who rules over us? Do we not remember that we have a king on the throne, an unimpeachable, unremovable king on the throne who rules over us, and we can go to him and we can pray to him and we can ask him to act And in fact, God tells us not to take things into our own hands. But there's no when there's no distinction. That's the actual trigger. That thought is the actual trigger for, oh, that you would rend the heavens and come down. Isaiah finally has A great concern for the name of God among the nations that we see here. To make your name known among your adversaries, that the nations might tremble at your presence. So here's the questions for us. Very practical, convicting, I know, but hopefully challenging in a positive way too. Here. Here's the questions. How is the world going to know who God is if his people live no differently than the world? If we don't reflect the character of God to the world, who will? If we don't worship God with holy fear and reverence, how can we expect the nations to take God seriously or to think that He's anything other than a figment of our imaginations or just another religious opinion? God must radically transform our lives in a powerful way. Remember what Peter said A famous verse that's often used for apologetics. Be ready to give a defense to anyone who asks you for the hope that is within you, yet do so with gentleness and respect. Be ready to give a defense for anyone who asks you about the hope that you have in you. What does that presuppose? It presupposes a people who are living in such a different way that it is evident that there's a hope. And and I'll you know, someone recently has said to me a couple different times, like You don't get stirred up and angry about all this political stuff like everybody else seems to be doing. And I was thankful that they had only seen that good side of me. Anyway. But I was but and they said there I there's something different about you. And I was like, uh yeah, because I'm not really all that worried about it My king is on his throne, and his kingdom endures forever. And I really don't put my hope in the nations of this world. And that was that was a good day to have that opportunity. And I just pray that we would have there that would be so evident that people would ask us those things or say those kinds of things to us. We who are the children of God, we have this privilege of calling upon God as our Father. O Lord, you who are our Father. How can we call God Father? It's because He's adopted us by grace. He's loved us before the foundation of the world. He's drawn us to Himself He's given his son to us and us to his son so that we are in Christ, and Christ is in us, and we can come to him as our Father. And we should, for what we need to do. As a father, I did not appreciate it when my kids were younger and they would pester me for things they wanted. for things they thought they needed. And I can tell you, I could always tell how much they thought they needed something by how much they pestered me for it. And I would just say to them, quit pestering me. If you don't stop asking, you are definitely not going to get what you're asking for. That was what I said to my kids. Funny, because it's the exact opposite of what God says to us. For some reason, God actually wants to be pestered by his children for the things that matter He wants us to come to him again and again and again. And he says to us, keep asking, and you will receive. He doesn't get tired. Our greatest hope is found in the fact that He is a God who, unlike The false gods of the world. God acts. Look at verse four of chapter sixty-four. From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye has seen a God besides you who acts for those who wait for him. Guess where that verse falls in this prayer? Right in the middle. That's our hope. Our hope is we have the one true God. As our Father, He's the one who acts. He actually acts for those who wait for Him. But we wait. Not passively, not apathetically, not cynically, not half-heartedly, we wait like a five-year-old waits for Christmas morning. We wait with expectation. We wait with, even dare I say, pestering, our fathers. to give us what we need that he alone can give. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you've given us everything in your Son Jesus, who is our righteousness, our peace, our eternal life, and our unfailing joy. But Father, we confess to you that we are so often lukewarm, compromised, distracted, half-hearted. Have mercy on us. Have mercy on us and draw us to yourself and change our hearts and our minds and our lives. Transform us by the power of your Holy Spirit. That we might reflect who you are, that we might seek you with passion, personally pleading for you as our Father. To be moved with compassion and zeal, to look upon us, to rend the heavens and come down to us. To revive us, to rescue us, and to glorify your name through us. We pray all this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen.