Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you. We're in our 29th week, the middle of the week here, looking at Luke 21, verses 1 to 19. We're asking maybe the most important question we can ask, and that is what kind of life pleases God. What kind of life pleases God? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, would you please be our teacher today as we turn to your word? We thank you that you have Given us your word, you've given your son for us, you've given your spirit to help us understand and grow in our knowledge and faithfulness to your word, we pray that you would grow us to be more like Christ and to have lives that are more pleasing to you for the time that we spend in your word today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Luke 21, verses 1 to 19. Jesus looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the offering box. And he saw a poor widow put in two small copper coins, and he said, Truly I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them. For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she, out of her poverty, put in all she had to live on. And while some were speaking of the temple, how it was adorned with noble stones and offerings, he said, As for these things that you see, the days will come when there will not be left one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. And they asked him, teacher, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when these things are about to take place? And he said, See that you are not led astray, for many will come in my name, saying, I am He, and the time is at hand. Do not go after them. And when you hear of wars and tumults, do not be afraid, for these things must first take place, but the end will not be at once. Then he said to them, Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and pestilence. and there will be terrors and great signs from heaven. But before all this they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name's sake. This will be your opportunity to bear witness. Settle it therefore in your minds, not to meditate beforehand, how to answer. For I will give you a mouth and wisdom which none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict. You will be delivered up, even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends. and some of you they will put to death. You will be hated by all for my name's sake. But not a hair of your head will perish by your endurance. You will gain your What kind of life pleases God? Is it a life of service? Of sacrifice? Of heroism, of fame and great accomplishment. Well, the widow who gave her last two copper coins did not gain anyone's attention other than Jesus who saw her gift and made sure his disciples saw it too. The key to her gift was not its size, but her faith she put in all she had to live on Later in the passage, when Jesus warns of coming persecution, he tells his disciples, this will be your opportunity to bear witness. Settle it therefore in your minds not to meditate beforehand how you will answer, for I will give you a mouth and wisdom which none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict. Jesus did not want his disciples depending on their own wisdom and eloquence. He wanted them to trust him, to provide them with the wisdom and words they would need. The common element between the poor widow and Jesus' instructions to the persecuted disciples is faith. The life that pleases God is a life of faith. Faith, as Jesus commends it and describes it here, is the opposite of self-reliance We are used to praising and honoring self-made and self-reliant men, but no man ever made himself anything. And God is pleased with those who know this. and who depend on him and not on themselves. We can be tempted to rely on almost anything other than God, our money, our wisdom. Our freedoms, our family, our skill, our connections. All of these blessings are given to us by God, and while we should be thankful for all of them We should not find our identity, our security, our comfort, or our fulfillment in any of them. God alone should be our hope and our trust. He is the giver of every good and perfect gift, and he is the keeper of his children. A life of faith pleases God because it honors God for who he is and never seeks to put anyone or anything else in his place. God is pleased with the life of faith because it glorifies Him, and it is best for us. When we depend on him alone, he gets the glory and we get the real security our hearts need, which is found in him alone. Alone. I pray that God's Holy Spirit would move in us to give us a living faith that would lead us to live a life that pleases Him. Let's look our uh now to Psalm 140 as we go to the Psalms. Psalm 140 is written to the choir master. It is a psalm of David. Deliver me, O Lord, from evil men. Preserve me from violent men who plan evil things in their heart, who stir up wars continually They make their tongue sharp as a serpent's, and under their lips is the venom of asps, Salah. Guard me, O Lord, from the hands of the wicked. Preserve me from violent men who have planned to trip up my feet. The arrogant have hidden a trap for me, and with cords they have spread a net. beside the way they have set snares for me, Salah. I say to the Lord, You are my God. Give ear to the voice of my pleas for mercy, O Lord. O Lord, my Lord, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle. Grant not, O Lord, the desires of the wicked Do not further their evil plot, or they will be exalted, Saylor. As for the head of those who surround me, let the mischief of their lips overwhelm them Let burning coals fall upon them. Let them be cast into fire, into miry pits no more to rise. Let not the slanderer be established in the land, let evil hunt down the violent man speedily. I know that the Lord maintains the cause of the afflicted and will execute justice for the needy. Surely the righteous shall give thanks to your name. The upright shall dwell in your presence. Now, Psalm 140 is a great psalm for us to be thinking about after that passage from the Gospels. This is a psalm that early persecuted Christians Could have had in their hearts, could have been praying on their lips. The persecuted believers around the world today can can pray Psalm 140. We, when we face trouble, when we face enemies. Again What's the outlook of Psalm 140? Not I'm going to take this in my own hands and I'm going to make this right or I need this or that, but to the Lord. You are my God. You are my Lord. You are the strength of my salvation. You cover my head in battle. So let's pray. O Lord our God, Father, you love us and you are strong, stronger than everyone in the world. And you're so much stronger than all of our enemies. We're not. We're weak. We're poor and needy. We are frail and helpless. We need you to be our strength, to be our shield, to be our God, to be our guard. We need you. Please be faithful to us. Please hold us. Please keep us. Please strengthen our faith in you that we might live by faith and not by self-reliance. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me, for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope it was a benefit and a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow, and as always, I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.