Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are wrapping up John 11 today. We're going to be looking at the response of the Pharisees and the religious leaders to the raising of Lazarus because there were witnesses, lots of eyewitnesses, not all of whom were disciples of Jesus. So how are the Pharisees, how are the religious leaders going to respond to this? Well, they're going to plot to kill Jesus and even Lazarus. But why would someone plot to kill someone who can raise the dead? That's our question for today. Why plot to kill someone who can raise the dead? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God, please speak to us through your word. And please write your word on our hearts that we might see and know and love and follow Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. John 11, 45-57. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council and said, What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation, but one of them, Caiaphas. who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish. He did not say this on his own accord. But being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation. and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So from that day on they made plans. To put him to death. Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the wilderness to a town called Ephraim, and there he stayed with the disciples Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves. They were looking for Jesus and saying to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all? Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew here where he was, he should let them know that they might arrest him So why plot to kill someone who can raise the dead? This is one of the most amazing accounts of the reactions of eyewitnesses. The eyewitnesses are an interesting fact in the Gospels that is a real challenge to skeptics, by the way, this little side note. The Gospels, which were all written in the first century, they were all written within a few decades of these events actually happening. They weren't written hundreds of years later. Contrary to what some people will tell you, we have we have a manuscript from the Gospel of John that was worn out and used as part of a mummy wrapping. And that dates to 125 A. D. , which we know then that the parchment itself was probably 40-50 years older than that. And so it gets us back into the first century easily. So these are first century documents, and they claim that there were lots of eyewitnesses of these miracles, which makes them easily falsifiable, you see. Because if you're going to write something within a few decades of it happening and you're going to claim that there were lots of eyewitnesses, there would be enough people around to say, No, that never happened. And they're naming Lazarus, you know, the brother of Mary and Martha in the town of Bethany, which is about two miles away from Jerusalem. They're being very specific about naming names. They said which tomb Jesus was buried in, the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea. They they said who carried his cross, Simon of Cyrene. You know, they give you very specific names, they give you very specific places. Which makes the fact claims of the Gospels easily falsifiable, but they can't be falsified, and we don't have any record of anybody even attempting to try to falsify them within that first generation of those who would actually have been eyewitnesses. So how do eyewitnesses react then if they don't become disciples? Well we see this. A group of eyewitnesses go off to tell the Pharisees what Jesus had done. Now we don't know what the motivation of these eyewitnesses are, but they're not the ones who believe in him. You see, John tells us some believed in him, and some went to go tell the Pharisees what Jesus had done. Maybe they were wanting a response from the Pharisees, maybe they were wanting to see if the Pharisees would come and check it out. And maybe if the Pharisees then believed, they too would believe that they were kind of waiting on the Pharisees. We don't know. We're not speculation at that point, right? But What we see here is how the Pharisees and the chief priests responded. They gather the council together and they're distressed. They don't want to lose their place and their nation. They have a good thing going. They're in a position of power. It is lucrative to them and to their families. They are wealthy. They are prestigious. They are prominent. If Jesus continues these kinds of things, Rome is going to come and and stomp on everybody. So they can't have that. So they want to kill him, even though he has the power to raise the dead, which seems absurd. But you see their absurdity. We see it in Caiaphas here, the high priest. Caiaphas speaks words. You know nothing at all, nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people than that the whole nation should perish. Caiaphas is just thinking and speaking on a political level. It's politically expedient to get rid of this guy rather than have the Romans crack down on the whole nation. But he said more than he knew because he wasn't just speaking of his own accord. As a prophet, as the high priest. He was speaking a prophecy from the Lord that Jesus would die for the nation of Israel and also to gather into one all the children of God scattered abroad. There are children of God to be found among every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. Some of them have not yet come to faith in Jesus, but Jesus died for all of them. to gather them together. And Caiaphas spoke that. So why plot to kill someone who can raise the dead? You have the purposes of man, which are political and self-serving, but you have the purposes of God. which are redemptive and marvelous. This is how it works when evil is at work in the world. We see it in the story of Joseph at the end of Genesis. Remember Joseph, he was sold into slavery by his brothers who envied him, and he ended up in jail, and then he ended up being Prime Minister of Egypt. And his brothers thought that when their father died that Joseph was going to take revenge, Joseph could have executed all of them on the spot, and nobody would have batted an eyelash. Surely if he had told the story, these are the guys who sold me into slavery, and that's how I ended up here, they would have been executed. But Joseph didn't do that. He didn't carry bitterness and a grudge in his heart because he said, You meant it for evil. But God meant it for good, for the preserving of many lives, even as it is to this day. So that's in Genesis 50, verse 20. So God is always at work. What do we learn from this? We learn from this. When something evil happens, when something difficult happens, when something troubling happens, when something disturbing happens. Don't get sucked into looking at it only from a human perspective, only from the evil perspective, only from the selfish worldly perspective. See that God is at work And that God's purposes are redemptive and marvelous. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you are always at work. Even through evil things, you are working out a purpose that is greater than what the evildoers intend. It doesn't mean their intentions are good. No, they're not. They do mean it for evil, but you have good intentions, and you will accomplish your purposes, even using the lips and the hands of selfish evil men. Because you reign supreme over all. And we thank you for that. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope that today's Uh gospel devotion was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.