Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are in Luke 18 here on our 28th week together in the Gospels, looking at the first half of Luke 18 today and asking what kind of prayer pleases God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and all that your word teaches us. In your word, you teach us how to pray, and so we pray that you would be our teacher in that way today And write your word on our hearts and transform the way we pray that we might know you and connect with you and glorify you better in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Luke 18, 1-17. And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart He said, In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man, and there was a widow in that city who kept coming to him and saying, Give me justice against my adversary For a while he refused, but afterward he said to himself, Though I neither fear God nor respect man, yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will give her justice, so that she will not beat me down by her continual coming. And the Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge says. And will not God give justice to his elect, who cry to him day and night? Will he delay long over them? I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth He also told them this parable, to some who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt, two men, went up into the temple to pray One a Pharisee, the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus, God, I thank you that I am not like other men extortioners, unjust adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all I get. But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift his eyes to heaven. but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other For every one who exalts himself will be humbled, and the one who humbles himself will be exalted. Now they were bringing even infants to him, that he might touch them And when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them to him, saying, Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them. For to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. How can we pray? In a way that connects with God, in a way that pleases God, in a way that reaches the throne of God and aligns our hearts with His will. Should we pray prayers to unlock the windows of the blessings of heaven? Should we pray for God to expand our territory? Should we formulate positive confessions of faith, affirming what we wish to be true about ourselves and our lives? Many people have written books and made millions of dollars telling people how to pray. Some of these unfortunately have been misguided. Some have taken scripture out of context, like the prayer of Jabez that was popular some twenty-some years ago While others have been dangerously unscriptural, like Joel Osteen's book The Power of I Am, which was popular about five years ago, thankfully Jesus has not left us without guidance. He teaches us repeatedly how we should pray. Based on today's passage, we can know what kind of prayer pleases God in specific ways. First of all, persistent prayer pleases God One of the biggest challenges we face in prayer is losing heart and giving up. Jesus wants us to learn to persevere in prayer. Perseverance in prayer, when guided by Scripture, often sharpens, refines, and sometimes changes our desires and our prayers. Sometimes we learn to wait on the Lord. as our desires and our prayers are affirmed and strengthened, but sometimes we learn to change our prayers to better align with God's will. Secondly, humble prayer God does not seek, nor does he honor self-centered, self-righteous, self-affirming, self-seeking prayer. But as Jesus said, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted. And third, in our final section of our reading, childlike prayer. Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God, when we see ourselves as helpless. And we trust in God to save and bless according to His gracious power in sovereign goodness. We are beginning to approach God as a small child. This is the approach that God Blessings. Children are not innocent or sinless, but they are trusting and they know that they need help. Learning to pray in a way shaped by Scripture is a lifelong endeavor. Now there are some excellent books that can help us. Matthew Henry, an old classic, a method for prayer More recently, a compilation of Puritan prayers called A Valley of Vision. There are other prayers that are excellent, excellent books on prayer Learning to pray the Psalms is an excellent discipline in this endeavor, and that's why at the end of our gospel times together we've been learning to pray the Psalms. So let's jump to Psalm 133. And what do we see here? A prayer for the unity of God's people. It's a song of a sense. It's written by David. Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. It is like the precious oil on the head, running down on the beard, on the beard of Aaron, running down on the collar of his robes. It is like the dew of Hermon which falls on the mountains of Zion, for there the Lord has commanded the blessing, life forevermore. Let's pray O Lord, you've told us that it is good and pleasant when your people dwell together in unity, that that is a place of blessing and even a place of eternal life So we pray, Lord, that you would grant unity to your people. Would you please specifically grant unity to the body of Christ at Forest Hill Presbyterian Church Would you grant us to be of one heart, one mind, one goal, one vision, that is to glorify you through your Son Jesus Christ, and by fulfilling our calling as a church faithfully. Would you grant unity to your people, who call on your name, that we would not fight against one another, that we would not tear one another down, but that we would always seek to honor you, and to humbly trust you. and to look to you for what we need, and to persevere in prayer for your kingdom to come, for your will to be done on earth as it is in heaven, that your name might be glorified And that Jesus might be praised. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again for here. As we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels, I hope today's devotional time was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow as we continue walking through the Gospel of Luke. Have a blessed day in the Lord.