Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Our second day of our 17th week together brings us to Mark 9. verses 2 to 29 and we're asking this question, what does it mean to pray, help my unbelief? Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to his word together. Heavenly Father, your word is wonderful. We thank you for it. We pray that you would write it on our hearts today and that you would grow us in Christ-likeness through this time we spend with you. In Jesus' name, amen. Mark 9, verses 2 to 29. And after six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John and led them up a high mountain by themselves. and he was transfigured before them, and his clothes became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them. And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. And Peter said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good that we are here. Let us make three tenths. one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah, for he did not know what to say, for they were terrified. And a cloud overshadowed them And a voice came out of the cloud, This is my beloved son. Listen to him. And suddenly looking around, they no longer saw any one with them but Jesus only And, as they were coming down the mountain, he charged them to tell no one what they had seen until the Son of Man had risen from the dead. So they kept the matter to themselves, questioning what this rising from the dead might mean. And they asked him, Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come? And he said to them, Elijah does come first to restore all things. And how is it written of the Son of Man that he should suffer many things and be treated with contempt? But I tell you that Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it was written of him. And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and scribes arguing with them, and immediately all the crowd, when they saw him, were greatly amazed, and ran up to him and greeted him. And he asked them, What are you arguing about with them? And someone from the crowd answered him, Teacher, I brought my son to you, for he has a spirit that makes him mute And whenever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid. So I asked your disciples to cast it out, and they were not able And he answered them, O faithless generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him to me. And they brought the boy to him. And when the spirit saw him, immediately it convulsed the boy, and he fell on the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth. And Jesus asked his father, how long has this been happening to him? And he said, from childhood. And it has often cast him into fire and into water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. And Jesus said to him, If you can? All things are possible for one who believes. Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, I believe. Help my unbelief. And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again. And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out, and the boy was like a corpse, so that most of them said, He is dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose. And when he had entered the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could we not cast it out? And he said to them, This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer. In today's passage, we have one of the most famous responses to Jesus in all of the Gospels. The father of the demon-possessed boy responds to Jesus by saying, I believe, help my unbelief. What does this plea mean? And how does Jesus answer it? God is very patient and understanding with us. Psalm 103. 14 says, for he knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. In fact, the whole reading today emphasizes the patience of Jesus in dealing with weak and dusty sinners. Jesus takes his disciples up on the mountain where he is transfigured before them in the presence of Moses and Elijah to show them who he is and to strengthen their faith in him. By giving his closest three disciples a glimpse of his glory, Jesus is giving them insight into his divine nature. By appearing with Moses and Elijah, who represent the law and the prophets, Jesus is directing them to the witness of Scripture to further strengthen their faith And finally, when the disciples were on the verge of missing the point of the transfiguration altogether, God the Father Himself speaks from heaven and says, This is my beloved Son, listen to him. We have this testimony recorded and given to us in the Gospels so that we too can benefit from the experience of Peter, James, and John. Their experience was not just for themselves. It was to strengthen the faith of all of us who are seeking to trust in Jesus. We have faith, we do believe, but we need help with our unbelief because we also doubt. This is what the man's response to Jesus was. Jesus told him, all things are possible for one who believes. The man wanted his son freed. He did believe that Jesus was able to help him, otherwise he would not have gone to him and asked him for help. But he also knew his own heart and his own doubts, which were strong and real And so Jesus responds to his plea with compassion and healing. We need God to have compassion on us in our weakness. Because we are so weak. We need Jesus to help us with our unbelief, because unbelief rears its ugly head right alongside faith in our frail hearts, thankfully. God gives us faith and meets us in our need. He gives us reasons to strengthen and substantiate our faith, and then he heals our souls despite our lingering doubts. Let's never hesitate to pray. I believe. Lord, help my unbelief. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 83. And this is going to be different. Psalm 83 is an imprecatory psalm. We've seen these before. And one of the things that causes doubts to rise in our hearts, one of the things that causes unbelief is the evil that we see in the world. And so we need to know how to respond to that. And Psalm 83 gives us a way to respond to that. It's a song. It's a psalm of Asaph. Oh God, do not keep silence. Do not hold your peace or be still. For behold, your enemies make an uproar. Those who hate you have raised their heads. They lay crafty plans against your people. They consult together against your treasured ones. They say, Come, let us wipe them out as a nation. Let the name of Israel be remembered no more. for they conspire with one accord. Against you they make a covenant. The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, Moab and the Hagrites, Gibbal and Ammon and Amalek Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre, Asher also has joined them. They are the strong arm of the children of Lot. Do to them as you did to Midian, as to Sisera and Jabin at the river Kishon, who were destroyed at Endor, who became dung for the ground. Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeb All their princes like Zeba and Zalmunnah who said, Let us take possession for ourselves of the pastures of God O my God, make them like whirling dust, like chaff before the wind, as fire consumes the forest, as the flame sets the mountains ablaze. so may you pursue them with your tempest and terrify them with your hurricane. Fill their faces with shame, that they may seek your name O Lord. Let them be put to shame and dismayed forever. Let them perish in disgrace, that they may know. That you alone, whose name is the Lord, are the most high over all the earth. One quick note before we pray. Sometimes you come to a psalm like Psalm 83, and there's a lot of references to things that might not be immediately familiar to you if you're not really familiar with the story of the Bible. You might not know who Gibal and Ammon, Amalek, Asher, all these people are, but you can still get the point from the context of the psalm. People who are harassing and oppressing God's people are causing distress. They're causing fear because they're wanting to wipe out the people of God. And ASAF here is teaching us to pray that God would bring justice upon these people, would make them ashamed of themselves. And the purpose of it is that God's name may be known. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for loving us. Thank you for giving us good and precious promises. Thank you for Jesus. who who came and was so patient with his disciples and for you being so patient with us. You remember our frame. You know that we are just dust. And so we believe and we ask for you to help our unbelief. One of the things that causes us distress and causes us to doubt is the evil in the world that It's often targeting your people. We see places where your people are under intense persecution, where they are being threatened with being wiped out. And it causes us to wonder why you're allowing it and what your purposes are and if you're in control or not. And we ask, Father, that you would bring justice. vindication, your strong arm to protect and deliver your people, and that you would make your name known. Even through the persecution that your people endure, may your name be known. May it be shown to the world That we are the people of the one true and living God, maker of heaven and earth, savior of the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.