Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We're getting to know our Savior better, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We've come now to Luke 11. And we have Luke's recording of the Lord's Prayer here. And so we're going to be asking this question, are we supposed to ask God for anything we want? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for being our God, for loving us, for adopting us into your family, for giving us security and peace with you. Lord, would you teach us how to pray? And would you teach us how to speak to you as children who are loved by you and who love you in return? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke eleven, verses one to twenty-six. Now Jesus was praying in a certain place, and when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples. And he said to them, When you pray, say, Father, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come Give us each day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us, and lead us not into temptation. And he said to them, Which of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey. and I have nothing to set before him. And he will answer from within, Do not bother me, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything. I tell you, though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his impudence, he will rise and give him whatever he needs And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened to you for everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. What father among you? If his son asks for a fish, we'll instead of a fish give him a serpent. Or if he asks for an egg, we'll give him a scorpion. If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Now he was casting out a demon that was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the people marvelled, but some of them said, He cast out demons by Beelzebel, the prince of demons while others to test him kept seeking from him a sign from heaven. But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste. And a divided household falls. And if Satan is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebal. And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are safe, but when one stronger than he is, I think that's a good thing. He attacks him and overcomes him. He takes away his armor in which he trusted, and divides his spoil. Whoever is not with me is against me, whoever does not gather with me scatters When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest. And finding none, it says, I will return to my house from which I came. And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order. Then it goes and brings seven other spirits, more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there, and the last state of that person is worse than the first. Are there rules for what we should ask God for or not? Does God give us a list of what we should and should not ask Him to give us? Jesus says, ask and it will be given to you. So can we ask for anything? Well, we can. Obviously nothing is stopping us. However, should we? Is it wise? We need to be careful and clear as we consider this question. God wants us to be honest, to pour out our hearts before Him. He does not want us to be hypocrites, and He knows our hearts better than we do anyway. However, that does not mean that every desire of our hearts and every request of our lips is pleasing to him. When God says, Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will grant you the desire of your heart, In Psalm 37, 4, the first half of that verse changes and shapes the conditions of the second half. Here in Luke 11, Jesus teaches his disciples the pattern for prayer before he encourages them to be bold and persistent. And tells that everyone who asks receives. In other words, Jesus sets the kingdom priorities for prayer before he urges his disciples to be bold and persistent in prayer. And at the end of his teaching on prayer, he tells his disciples that the Father wants to give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him. From hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, to the Heavenly Father will give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him Jesus' teaching on prayer is spiritual and focused on the kingdom, the honor and power of God. Prayer never has been. and never will be a formula for how to get rich, famous, and powerful, and have all your wildest dreams come true. To make this even clearer, Jesus gives the illustration of how earthly fathers respond to their children's good requests. What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent? If he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion. But you know the reverse is just as true and easy to see, right? What good father would give his son a serpent just because he asks for it? Although, sadly, lots of parents give their kids smartphones with unfiltered access to the worst imaginable vile content in the world at a very young age. So maybe Well, God is a wise and loving Heavenly Father. He will not give serpents and scorpions that we so often ask for. He will say no. Sometimes when we persist in asking, he does give in to our requests because he can see that the only way for us to learn the danger of our request is to actually handle the scorpion for ourselves, but still he does not delight in hearing and answering such requests, even when his fatherly wisdom condescends to our requests for a season. I have found, over years of walking with the Lord, that I rarely ask for the things I truly need in the best way and with the best intentions. But my Father is wise and loving, patient and kind. He will deny my harmful requests and give me what I need instead. He will also sometimes give me a small dose of what I think I want, so I can see that it's not what I need after all. And through it all I have found that the simple pattern of praying the Lord's Prayer and the Psalms and other prayers from Scripture really is the best, wisest, and safest path. Well, let's turn our attention now to the Psalms, and we will pray them because that's a great pattern for us. We're finishing up Psalm 119 today. Look on my affliction and deliver me, for I do not forget your law. Plead my cause and redeem me. Give me life according to your promise Salvation is far from the wicked, for they do not seek your statutes. Great is your mercy, O Lord. Give me life according to your rules. Many are my persecutors and my adversaries, but I do not swerve from your testimonies. I look at the faithless with disgust because they do not keep your commands Consider how I love your precepts. Give me life, O Lord, according to your steadfast love The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your righteous rules endures forever. Princes, persecute me without cause. But my heart stands in awe of your words. I rejoice at your word, like one who finds great spoil. I hate and abhor falsehood, but I love your law. Seven times a day I praise you for your righteous rules. Great peace have those who love your law. Nothing can make them stumble. I hope for your salvation, O Lord, and I do your commandments My soul keeps your testimonies. I love them exceedingly. I keep your precepts and testimonies, for all my ways are before you. Let my cry come before you, O Lord. Give me understanding according to your word. Let my plea come before you. Deliver me according to your word My lips will pour forth praise, for you teach me your statutes. My tongue will sing of your word, for all your commandments are right. Let your hand be ready to help me. For I have chosen your precepts. I long for your salvation, O Lord, and your law is my delight. Let my soul live and praise you, and let your rules help me. I have gone astray, like a lost sheep. Seek your servant, for I do not forget your commandments. Let's pray. Oh gracious Father, you are my God. By grace You've given us the privilege of calling you Father. And by grace you give us instruction in your word. We're ignorant and none of ourselves. We're foolish. in our own ways of thinking, but your instruction, your word, your law, your precepts, they give us wisdom, they give us insight, they give us guidance, they give us direction, and you give us life according to your promise that is fulfilled in Christ according to your steadfast love that is poured out into our hearts by the Holy Spirit. So lead us, that we might pray and love and live. In keeping with your heart. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again, for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you today. It was to me. It's always a blessing to be in God's Word. Hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.