Romans chapter four, verses thirteen to twenty-five. As we're turning there, we we do have sermon follow-up guides. They were not here At the beginning of church that was my fault because I left both my sermon notes and the sermon follow-up guides at home. But my wife who is sick today Very lovingly, drove them out here. Moms, let me just give you a heads up, moms of boys in particular. If you have an absent-minded son who's always forgetting everything, like the kind of child who would walk home from school in the winter without his winter coat on, And then you ask him, where's your coat? He would look at himself and say, I think I left it at school. Hypothetically And you think they're going to outgrow that when they become, say, a fifty-one year old pastor? They will not. But their wives will take over for you. So pray for them. Alright, so we do have sermon follow-up guides. They're available out in the NorthX. There are also three Romans scripture journals out there. They are for you to take and use to take notes on the remainder of the Romans Sermon series, let's turn our attention now to God's Word. Romans, chapter 4, verses 13 to 25 This is God's holy word. For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be heir of the world did not come through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if it is the adherents of the law who are to be heirs, faith is null, and the promise is void. For the law brings wrath. But where there is no law, there is no transgression. That is why it depends on faith. In order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring, not only to the adherent of the law. but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. As it is written, I have made you the father of many nations. In the presence of the God in whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls into existence the things that do not exist. In hope, he believed against hope that he should become the father of many nations, as he had been told, so shall your offspring be. He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body, which was as good as dead since he was about a hundred years old, and when he considered the barrenness of Sarah's womb No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith and he gave glory to God, fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why his faith was counted to him as righteousness. But the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead, Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please teach us. Please write your word upon our hearts. O Holy Spirit, please come. And show us more of Jesus that we might believe and walk by faith and not by sight. To your glory in our lives, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. I think most of us have a natural instinct to recoil in disbelief. In the face of unbelievable promises. Things that seem too good to be true. And there's probably a really good reason for that within our culture. Our culture is always holding out these tantalizing pseudo-promises. The lottery. Sports gambling. Stock speculating. If you just do this, if you just pick these numbers, if you just play this parlay, if you just, you know, pick this stock, this penny stock. That you can have for next to nothing. You're going to be fabulously wealthy. And hopefully we've learned that like those things are not reliable. And we pull back and we say, you know Sounds too good to be true, it probably is. But the problem is that that cynicism, which is actually appropriate to the world and its false offers, can also harden our hearts toward God and toward his precious promises So God promises us full forgiveness of all of our sins, adoption into his family as children of God forever, an eternal inheritance in heaven. Full glory in a new creation that is full of perfect love and joy, and in the meanwhile, his unfailing presence in our lives every day. He gives these kinds of promises to us. And we think, yeah, but I don't know. Man, when is church over? I want to go home and watch some football. Well the Ravens don't play till 4 30 today, so we're good to stay for a while. When Abraham was seventy-five years old, God called him to leave Haran and go to the land of Canaan. And God promised Abraham, I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you. and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you, I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. This was the promise of God. But at the time, Abraham was 75 years old. And his wife Sarai was 65 years old. And they had no children. But in faith, Abram obeyed, and he went to the land of Canaan. Ten years later. When Abram and Sarai were still childless, God came to Abraham and said, Fear not Abram, I am your shield. Your reward will be very great. This time Abram objects a little bit and he says, Lord, I have no offspring to be my heir. Remember what you said 10 years ago when I was 75? Now I'm 85. No kids. Sarai was 65, now she's 75, no kids. And now this Eliezer of Damascus, this hired servant, he's going to be my heir. And God said to him, No. Eliezer of Damascus will not be your heir, but a son from your very own body will be your heir And that's when in Genesis 15 Abram believed God, and God credited it to him as righteousness. Fourteen years later, when Abram was ninety-nine years old. God came to him again and renewed the promise. This time he changes his name from Abram, Exalted Father. to Abraham, father of a multitude. Can you imagine? I mean it must have been bad enough to live to the age of 99 with your name being Abram, Exalted Father And you have no children. But then God comes to you after it's now been 24 years of waiting. And God says, I'm going to change your name. No longer exalted father, but now you're going to be father of a multitude. Now you're going to go by Abraham. Abraham had to think, are you kidding me? I can't ask anybody to call me that. They're just gonna laugh at me. But that's not what he said. He believed. He believed God, and he did what God told him to do. And this time, this is Genesis 17, this time God gives him the covenant of circumcision. So he had to do something that was not comfortable. Let's leave it at that. And so the covenant of circumcision is given to Abram and to uh to Abraham now and to all of his offspring, and they had to wait another year. For that promise to finally be fulfilled when Abraham was a hundred and Sarah was ninety. Abraham had many sins and failures. You read Romans 4, or you read Hebrews 11 about Abraham, and you might think, oh man, he was had such great faith. He hoped against hope. He didn't waver. And do you go back to read Genesis? You're like, this doesn't seem like a guy who never wavered, because he did some things that were really boneheaded. You know, he twice passed off Sarai as his sister. because she was so attractive and he was afraid of Pharaoh in Egypt and he was afraid of King Abimelech in in Canaan and so twice he says, Oh no, this is my sister, not my wife And then when Sarai's faith isn't quite there yet, and she says, Well, you know, Abram, God made a promise to you that a child from your own body would be your heir, not Eliezer of Damascus, but he didn't say anything about me. So maybe it's supposed to be your child and not my child. After all, logically speaking, we all know that men can father children into old age. But women can't. Right? And so Sarai, logically speaking, said, why don't you take Hagar, my handmaiden, and have a child by her, and and and he'll be the heir? And that's where Ishmael came from. So Abraham was not perfect. He had sins, he had failures, but whenever God spoke a promise Abraham did something. He did not judge that promise from God on the basis of his circumstances or his own ability. He judged that promise on the basis of God's power, and he believed. And God said, that makes you righteous. Sinner though you be, that makes you righteous. The problem with God's people is that then over the centuries they began to trust Either in the physical act of circumcision itself, to say, well, just if you are circumcised, then you're good to go. Or later they began to trust in the law that God gave through Moses to say, we have the law of Moses. So keep the dietary laws, keep the festival days, keep the feast days. Wear the right kind of clothing, and that'll make you righteous. But they missed the point. Because what God gives us are promises. And a promise must be received. It cannot be earned. Someone makes a promise to you, what you're supposed to do is believe it and receive it and act as if it's true. You don't hear the promise and then say, okay, what do I have to do to earn that? That's the difference between the world's promise. The world's promises are you could be a billionaire. Oh, I could be. Notice could be, not you will be. All you have to do is play the megamillions, play the powerballs. Somebody has to win. It could be you. Technically true. But there's something that you have to do to sort of earn it, right? Same thing with betting and all these other promises that the world makes, or the the one that's probably most believed in our culture. and pursued is the American dream. Just work hard enough, just strive after it, and you'll get there someday I may have told you this before, but one of our teachers at Whitfield, when I was in Georgia, head of the math department, he would he would teach his seniors this. He said, You guys know what you're doing, right? You we well we all know the script, right? You get good grades. So you can get into a good college, so you can get a good job, so you can have a nice house in a good neighborhood. so you can send your kids to the right schools so you can have a midlife crisis. And he was driving home the point that if that's all you're living for, not that there's anything wrong with all any of those things, they can be God's good gifts. But if that's all you're living for, you're setting yourself up to get to a certain stage of your life and wonder like, is this it? This is the dream? Because it doesn't feel like it So a promise must be received, it cannot be earned. Abraham didn't work to earn the promises God gave him But he listened, he received the promises, he believed them, and then he acted on that belief. It's not by doing something that we get a promise, but it is by believing in God's promise that we then act in faith On the basis of those promises. This is what Romans calls the obedience of faith. I believe, therefore I will live as if that promise is really true. The obedience of faith. It's not the obedience of law, it's very, very different. Abraham believed God. It was credited to him as righteousness. Abraham was reckoned righteous because he believed in God's gospel promises. Those promises were ultimately fulfilled in Jesus. And so Jesus was the fulfillment of the hope of Abraham's righteousness, just as Jesus is the fulfillment of the hope of our righteousness. And that's why we are Abraham's heirs. We are one with Abraham because we have the same faith that unites us to the same Savior, who is the same source of righteousness for both of us. It is the obedience of faith, it is the righteousness of faith, it is not the righteousness of the law. If Paul says in verse 14, if it is the adherents of the law who are to be the heirs of the promises given to Abraham. Faith is null and the promise is void, for the law brings wrath, but where there is no law, there is no transgression. Now what is Paul talking about? Because that ending there can be really confusing. Where there's no law, there's no transgression. Does that mean if God never gave the Ten Commandments to Moses, none of us would ever be guilty of any sin? That's not what Paul's saying. You always take a verse within its context, right? Anybody ever says, but the Bible says this, and they quote a verse, always look up the passage and look at the context. We've already seen in the early chapters of Romans, Paul's been very, very clear that everyone is guilty of transgressions of the law of God. Everyone is guilty before God. Whether they have a written law of Moses or whether they just have the law of God written on their hearts, everyone's guilty and everyone knows it. So there's no that's not what he's talking about. What's he talking about? He's talking about how do we get the promise How are we justified? How are we made righteous? And what he's saying is, if you're trying to do it according to the law If it's the adherents of the law who are the heirs of the promise, the ones justified, well then you're not going to get anywhere because that's only going to bring you wrath. If you're standing before God as, look, God, I did the law The only thing that's going to be there is a record of transgressions of that law. And so the law brings wrath. But where there is no law as a basis for justification, if you're not coming to God saying, look, I've done the law, you're coming to God saying I believe in Jesus, then you're not counting on the law for your justification, you're counting on Jesus for your justification, and there there's no transgression because Jesus is perfect righteousness. Received by faith. So Paul's not saying that we should all be lawless, and if we were all just lawless, then there wouldn't be any sin in the world. What he's saying is, if you're justified by Jesus. then your sins are covered. Which is where he ends this passage by talking about Jesus being delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. Those who wish to rely on the law for their righteousness before God are in deep trouble. But there's another false belief that many Jewish people had have They had, they have it, and there's many Christian people today who have it as well. And that is a belief that the Jewish people as an ethnic group have a special claim on a special set of promises of God that are given to them as a nation and not to the people of God as a whole. But that's not true. Now, if all you did was read the Old Testament, if all you did was read Genesis, you might think, well, of course it's true. God promises Abraham and Isaac and the descendants of Isaac the land of Canaan. And again, the children of Jacob, the twelve tribes of Israel, they're promised that land of Canaan. True, they are. But here's a rule for rightly interpreting the Bible. Write this one down. Remember it. Never read the Old Testament as if the New Testament doesn't exist. Never read the Old Testament and think, oh, well then that's what we should do because if that if that's how you're going to read the Bible, then quit eating pork. No more crab cakes, Marylanders. Right? If we're going to read the Old Testament as though the New Testament doesn't exist, then you know you got to follow all those laws. But that's not how we do it. We let the New Testament be our authoritative guide to our right understanding of the Old Testament. And Paul is saying very clearly here, it is not. the adherents of the law who are the heirs, but those who are of faith. It's not the only place where Paul says something like this. Second Corinthians 1 20 Talking about the promises of God, Paul says this: for all the promises of God find their yes in him that is in Christ. That is why it is through him that we utter our amen to God for his glory. So, how many of the promises of God find their yes in Christ? All of them. Galatians chapter 3, verses 7 and 9 says this: Know then that it is those who are of faith who are the sons of Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then, those who are of the faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. Paul does something else here in Romans 4 where he's following, he's actually following the example of Jesus. Because you let the New Testament be the authoritative guide to how to interpret the Old Testament, you also listen to Jesus. Because Jesus knows the Bible better than anybody. Jesus is the Word of God made flesh. So here's what Jesus did. Jesus took the promise of land that was given to Abraham and to his offspring, and he expanded it. He did it in the Beatitudes. In the Beatitudes, he said, Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit What? The earth. Paul's actually picking up on that teaching here in Romans four. When in verse thirteen he says, For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be heir of the world did not come through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. So he's saying that promise of land It was actually much more expansive than that. It was actually in Jesus the whole world. Because Jesus is King of all Kings and Lord of all Lords, and he's the heir of the whole world. And so those who are heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ inherit the whole world. And it's not ethnic Jewish people, physical descendants of Abraham. It is those who are of faith. This isn't really new in the New Testament. What the New Testament often does is it takes something that's there in the Old Testament in seed form, and it shows you how that blossoms. Because in the words that God said to Abraham was this truth in seed form. God told Abraham in Genesis 22, in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. In your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. He says that to him in Genesis 22. It's really important that he said it to him in Genesis 22. Because what happens in Genesis 22? That is when Abraham obeys God and takes Isaac up Mount Moriah. With wood on his back for a fire, willing to offer him up as a sacrifice to God. But God stops him. And God provides a ram and a thicket instead. But that's not all God does. God pronounces this blessing and says Okay, you've obeyed me. You've been willing to offer your only son, the son of promise, the son you love. You were willing to offer him, and so you're blessed. And in fact, through your offspring, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. And in fact, Abraham then called that place, The Lord will provide. Jehovah Jirah, or Yahweh. The Lord will provide. As it is written. On the mountain of the Lord, it shall be provided. Or another way to translate it is, on the mountain of the Lord, he shall be seen. Because Isaac in that moment was a type and a foreshadowing of another son of Abraham who would come thousands of years later and who would carry wood up a hill and be laid down upon it. Only God would not spare this son, his son, and he would be offered up for us all. And it is through not sparing his son that God provides the blessing through the offspring of Abraham, Jesus Christ, that comes to all nations. So here we are in Maryland. In 2025, we're sitting here 4,000 years after the days of Abraham, 2,000 years after the death of Jesus, and we're blessed. We are children of Abraham. We are heirs of God. We are heirs of all the promises of God because of what Jesus did for us. How did Abraham become an heir of the promises? By believing. And we become an heir of the promises by believing like Abraham believed. So how did Abraham believe? What was that faith like? How do you know if you have faith? What is faith? What does it mean? Some people think faith is wishful thinking. They think, oh, believe in Jesus and you go to heaven. That's little different from, man, I really hope this parlay plays out because I'll win $10,000. Like, I have faith. Yeah. You know. No. We're told in this passage what Abraham's faith looked like. And here's what the definition of it is from this passage. Abraham, his faith meant that he did not judge God's promises by his circumstances, but by the power of God. He did not judge God's promises by his circumstances, but by the power of God. Look again at verses 18 to 22. In hope he believed against hope that he should become the father of many nations. As he had been told, so shall your offspring be. He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body, which was as good as it says since he was about a hundred years old, and when he considered the barrenness of Sarah's womb. No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God. But he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God, fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. Underline that God is able to do what he's promised. But I'm almost a hundred years old. God is able to do what he promised But Sarah's eighty-nine, almost ninety, she never had a kid. God is able to do what he promised. That is why his faith was counted to him as righteousness. Modern people, especially modern skeptics, I think they're kind of funny. Modern skeptical people, some of them, will say, well, you have to understand people in Bible times, they lived in pre- in a pre-scientific age. They didn't have the sophisticated scientific knowledge that we have, and that's why there's recordings of miracles in the Bible, because people just didn't understand. They didn't have the science that we have. They were really simple-minded and naive. Which I think is funny because I think thinking that way about people in the ancient world is actually simple-minded and naive. Because you don't need a lot of science to know certain things Virgins don't get pregnant and give birth to babies. Dead men don't rise again after three days. And a hundred-year-old man and a ninety-year-old wife don't have a baby. I think people in the ancient world actually knew all those things better than we do. And so they knew. Faith is not unscientific or unrealistic. It is a realization that the power of God is not limited to naturalistic causes. Hebrews 11 defines faith this way. Now, faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. The things that we hope for, the things that God has promised, we are assured of and we are convicted of them. And then he says, For it is by for by it, by faith, the people of old received their commendation, like Abraham. By faith, we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible That's the beginning of faith, right? Billy Graham, years and years ago, he was asked about all of the difficulties in the Bible and how he how he came to understand them. He's like, how how can you believe you know, in a dead person being raised to life after four days? How can you believe in one boy's lunch being multiplied to feed five thousand people? How can you believe in the sun standing still in the sky? Like these things are impossible. And he says, you know what? I read the first verse of the Bible. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And I just figured if he was able to do that, everything else is pretty easy. So we judge the his promises. That is true and saving faith. But here's what true and saving faith isn't. There are two things that it's not. First of all, following Abraham's example, true and saving faith does not disbelieve the promises of God. because circumstances are difficult or things seem very unlikely. But the second thing also Is that true and saving faith doesn't presume. It's not presumption. What do I mean by that? Well, there's two kinds of presumption that can sometimes be mistaken for faith. One is a presumption that claims promises God has never made. And the second is to say, well, if God promised it, then that means I don't have any responsibility for it at all. I'm just going to let go and let God, which is also a form of presumption. Let me talk about those two for a minute. God hasn't promised you an easy life. I remember when I was uh younger The old uh four spiritual laws booklet from Campus Crusade was a very common way of sharing the gospel. And it's it's got a lot of good stuff in it. But the very first thing is First spiritual law. God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. And then it was, you know, sin has separated you from God, but Jesus has has you know reconciled you and you need to have faith. And the idea is that if you have faith and you're reconciled to God, then you can live out God's wonderful plan for your life. And the way I heard that as an 18-year-old was, I'm going to have a good life God's got a good life plan for me. And the good life was defined the way that my 18-year-old male brain defined the good life. You can fill in the blanks. Also at the same time, a very common verse that I heard a lot was Jesus in John 10:10 Saying the thief comes to steal, kill, and destroy, but I have come that you may have life and life abundantly. And I thought, yes, abundant life I will be rich. Now I wasn't explicitly believing in the health and wealth prosperity gospel, but in my adolescent mind, I thought I'm going to have a good life, fairly easy life, and a pretty prosperous life because that's what Jesus came to give me. That is not what Jesus came to give you. He came to give you something better than that. Maybe he came to give you a hope that even a cancer diagnosis That doesn't have a good prognosis in this life. Can't take away from you. Because you know where you're going. A hope that allows you to stand at the grave of a loved one and say, I know. Despite these circumstances that are here before me, I know that my mom, my dad, my spouse, my child, they're home with the Lord. And I will see them again. A hope. Against hope. That's how Abraham believed. A hope that says, these are the circumstances, but I believe the promises of God Now, it's also not a passivity. It's not a not a let go and let go. There are people who have gone down that road of presumption and who have said, well For example, we believe that in the covenant of grace, God has promised to be our God and the God of our children after us throughout their generations We believe that is the covenant promise of God. I will be a God to you and to your children after you throughout their generations. We believe that covenant promise of God was made to Abraham and it's still in effect today. That doesn't mean That if you have children as a believer, they're automatically going to become a Christian. Doesn't mean that. We still have an obligation. We are to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. We are to teach them. We are to instruct them in the doctrines. of our faith and to pray for them for their salvation. We are to trust God for them. There's an active part we play in that. God has also promised to sanctify us. He's promised to persevere with us throughout our sanctification until one day we are just like Jesus. That is not, okay, God's got it. I don't need to worry about it. I can not read my Bible and not pray and not go to church very often and be a jerk to my wife and be selfish and you know what, hey God sanctification, that's God's work in me. I just You know, I'm along for the ride. No. You're called to follow. In faith, follow. Not because you're trying to earn something, but because of the promises God's given you are reliable. And some of those promises require you to act on faith. So, Abraham believed God. He didn't let fear paralyze him. He didn't let circumstances Bring disbelief, but he trusted God. And this brings us to our final point. His trust in God was ultimately vindicated, and our faith is fulfilled in the death and resurrection of Jesus. Abraham's faith is vindicated. Our faith is fulfilled in the death and resurrection of Jesus. This is the end of our passage. We'll go back to verse 20 and pick up from there. No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God. But he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God, fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why faith was counted to him as righteousness. But the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised up for our justification. Abraham's record of justification of faith was written not only for his own sake, but for ours as well. Because we have to be justified in the same way and by the same faith in the same God. We're called to believe in the God who raised Jesus up from the dead. Here's what this means. What causes us to waver in the face of the promises of God and not believe? Sometimes it's our circumstances, but sometimes we doubt God. We doubt his love for us, or we doubt his power to be able to keep his promises. The God who delivered up Jesus for our trespasses and who raised him from the dead for our justification is a God whose love and power can be trusted. If you doubt his love for you, go to the cross. He was delivered up for your trespasses. Romans 5. 8, God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. And then he goes on to say, if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by his life? Or Romans 8. What shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? If we were enemies of God, we were Alienated from God, we were hostile toward God, and God said, I will give my son in love to take away all of your sin. That God who loves us that much, now that we are reconciled to him, now that we are his children, is he going to wake up and say, Well, you just blew it too many times, forget it, I'm done with you. No. He's going to see us through to the end. He loves us that much, and he has the power to do so, and that power is shown in the empty grave. You doubt God's love, go to the cross. You doubt God's power, go to the empty grave. All the forces of hell wanted nothing more than for Jesus to be dead and gone and done with. But it was impossible for death to keep its grip on him. It was impossible for death to keep its grip on him. That's the power of God. Death is no match. And that same power, the Bible tells us, that same power is at work in us Again, Romans 8, if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Jesus Christ from the dead will also give you life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. And Ephesians 1, 19 through 20 also says, the very same power that raised Jesus from the dead is now at work in us. So we don't need to doubt God's love or God's power. Jesus was delivered up for our trespasses. That gives us the assurance that all of our sins are gone and dealt with. And he was raised up for our justification. That means our righteousness is living and sitting at the right hand of God and praying for us. No one can shake your righteousness because it's not your own. It's Him. God asked us In light of these promises, in light of these promises kept in Jesus Christ, God asked us to trust Him, to follow Him. To trust him more deeply than we trust ourselves, to trust him more deeply than we trust our assessment of our circumstances, whether it's presumption or fear, we need to look to him, look to his promises, and look to his power and say I believe I will do what you say. The world might laugh. It might look to the world Like a 99-year-old guy changing his name from exalted father to a father of multitudes and ain't got no kids, the world might think it's that ridiculous. You really think Your your loved one is in heaven and you're gonna see them again someday. Oh yeah, bye in the sky and the by and by. Let the world laugh. God has kept his promises in Jesus Christ. Will we trust him and follow him, believing that he will not fail? Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you that He is our righteousness, that He is our forgiveness, that He is our peace, that He is our eternal life. We are safe and secure Clinging to Jesus by faith because he holds on to us and will never let go. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.