Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church So glad that you could be with me today on our second day of our 38th week together. And today we are looking at the last part of John 16, verses 25 to 33. And we're going to be asking the question, does Jesus promise us a life of trouble? Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and your faithfulness. Thank you for your word and for the privilege of being able to spend time in your word together today. We pray that you would bless us and teach us from your word, and we pray that you would grow us in Christ-likeness. And it's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Pay no attention to the barking dog. I'm the only one home right now, and they've probably just got a package delivered, so don't worry about that. John 16, 25 to 33, I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my name. And I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf, for the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came from God. I came from the Father, and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father. His disciples said, Ah, now you are speaking plainly. and not using figurative speech. Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you. This is why we believe that you came from God. Jesus answered them, Do you now believe? Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered, each to his own home. and will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me. I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation The takeheart, I have overcome the world. I've got my uh Mug with a great quote from Albus Dumbledore. Happiness can be found even in the darkest of times if one only remembers to turn on the light. If you remember that the light of the world is Jesus and that the opening of his word gives light, this is a great mug with a great message. And good coffee in it. Do you know the difference between the indicative and the subjunctive mood of a verb? Uh-oh, we just jumped into the deep end of grammar class. Wait a minute, hold on, don't run away. Don't scream in fear and uh you know with flashbacks to middle school grammar class. Let me explain. Verbs. Verbs are the words that tell you what's happening Or what has happened or will happen or what may happen or what may have happened or it might happen in the future. Verbs that indicate past, present, and future reality. What did happen, what is happening, what will happen, are in the indicative mood. They indicate this was, this is, this will be, right? But verbs that tell you what might or what could or what should have happened are in the subjunctive mood. This might have happened, this might be happening, this could happen, right? Now, why are we having a grammar lesson? I thought we were in the Bible. Well, it makes a big difference. In John 16, 33, Jesus says, In this world, You will have tribulation. It's the indicative mood, not the subjunctive. Not you may have or you could have tribulation, but you will have tribulation It indicates reality. In this world, you will definitely have tribulation. It's not just what might be or what could be. It's a reality of life in this world. But you know what something else wonderful in this passage is also in the indicative. Jesus says, I have overcome the world. Take heart. I have overcome the world. That is a completed action that has ongoing effect in our lives. It's called the perfect tense. An accomplished reality. But an accomplished reality that has set up a new state of being that affects us even today. Jesus speaks of this accomplished reality before he goes to the cross. before he rises again from the dead, because he knows that God's plan and purposes will not fail. And so he speaks of it as if it's already finished. I have overcome the world. So now there is a subjunctive here. Jesus says, I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. There is an opportunity to have peace that may or may not come. When will it come and when will it not come? Well, if we believe in the words that Jesus is speaking to us. By faith, if we believe what Jesus is teaching really in this whole section of verses 14 to 6 or chapters 14 to 16 of John's Gospel, and by extension the whole Bible, but specifically I think this is Jesus wrapping up this last teaching, which covers John's 14 John 14 to 16. If we believe and we receive by faith the teaching that Jesus has in John 14 and 16, and that causes us to trust in Him, to believe in Him. That's a question that profited. Do you now believe? Verse 31. So do we believe Do we trust in the words of Jesus? Do we trust in the person of Jesus? Do we trust in the overcoming power of Jesus? If we do, then we will have peace. If we don't, we will not have peace. And that's why it's in the subjunctive. I've said these things to you that in me you may have peace. Peace is there for the having by faith. Maybe we need to pray. I believe, help my unbelief. I trust you, help me to trust you more. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, you have overcome the world. We know that in this world we will have trouble. We've already had it. We have it now. We're going to have it in the future. But we also know that you have overcome the world. That's an accomplished reality that has effect for our lives today. Help us to trust you that in you we will have peace by faith in you and in your words. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me as we finished up this wonderful teaching in John fourteen to sixteen. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the morning. It's the Lord.