Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals for 2026. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are walking from guilt through grace to gratitude this year, following the footsteps laid out in the 129 questions and answers. of the Heidelberg Catechism. If you missed our first devotional, you might want to go back and watch that because it explains why we're doing the Heidelberg Catechism and where it came from. This is not something that is a replacement for Scripture or an authority alongside Scripture. Rather, it's a guide to the gospel truths that are laid out for us in Scripture. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, which is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword Thank you for what your word reveals to us, which is our need for our Savior and the glory of our Savior and the wonderful, rich gospel comfort we get through Jesus Christ. Teach us today. And write your word on our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, let's go back to that first question and answer of the Heidelberg Catechism. The question is, what is your only comfort in life and death? The answer: that I am not my own, but belong body and soul, both in life and in death. to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ. And that's what we did in our first devotional. And then he has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood and has set me free from all the power of the devil. That is what we looked at last time. And today we're going to be looking at the rest of it. He also preserves me in such a way that without the will of my Heavenly Father, not a hair can fall from my head. Indeed all things must work together for my salvation. Therefore, by His Holy Spirit, He also assures me of eternal life. and makes me heartily willing and ready from now on to live for him. Wonderful truth here. So having purchased us for himself, having paid for and cleansed us of all of our sins, having set us free from the power, the tyranny of the devil. God preserves us and providentially orders everything in our lives, assuring us of eternal life and giving us the internal desire to want to be willing and ready to live for him. So he preserves us. We're kept by the grace of God. We're drawn to Christ by the grace of God, but we're also kept by the grace of God. Not a hair can fall from our head without the will of our Heavenly Father. All things work together for our salvation. And we get assurance by the Holy Spirit as we're in the Word of God, the Holy Spirit gives us assurance these things are true of me. These things are mine. Christ is mine and I am his. And that makes us, that assurance that he gives us makes us more and more willing and ready to live for him. Let's look at some scripture. We could look at a lot of scripture for today's devotional book and focus on these three. Matthew 10, 29 to 31. Jesus says, are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from Apart from your father, but even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows. And then Romans 8. 28. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. And finally, Philippians 2. 12-13. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence, but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. for it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. You see this? This this preserving grace of God Birds fall from the sky, but not by accident. Only by the will of God for a purpose Jesus is not saying here that because we are of more value than many sparrows, our hair will never fall out of our head. He doesn't say that. He says it won't happen apart from the will of our Father. We know sometimes people with cancer and they go through chemo and they lose their hair. People lose their eyesight, people lose their hearing, people People suffer. God's people suffer. Psalm 34 says, Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. And that's the key is to know that when we're in affliction, when we're in suffering, God has his hand upon us. Last night we began our first study in a wonderful Puritan book, classic by John Flavel, called Preparations for Sufferings. And we need to know this kind of truth about the providence of God if we're going to be prepared to endure suffering well for the glory of God, that it's not coming at us by accident. But it's it's coming at us under and within the will of our Father. It doesn't mean God's pleased by it or that He enjoys afflicting us. He doesn't do that. He doesn't afflict from the heart, Lamentations 3 says. But It's measured, it's purposeful. All suffering of God's people is measured, it's temporary, and it's purposeful. And this is given to us by Romans 8. 28. We know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. All things The death of a loved one, cancer, debilitating disease, heartbreak, the alienation from a child, uh whatever it is, God is at work. for the good of those who love him and are called according to his purpose, and also for the glory of his eternal name. We can believe that. We can't always see it. Right? But we're always called to believe things that we can't see. Here God has said, here's my promise to you. You're worth more to me than many sparrows, and I'm working all things together for your good. These are my promises to you. Will you believe them? Or will you give in to doubt and fear? We have assurance. Because of the price that God paid for us, God did not withhold his only son. But he freely gave him up for us all. That's what Romans 8. 32 tells us. And if that's true, if God was willing to pay the highest price, to give up his son for us Is he really going to be stingy about the little things we need in life, or is he going to be forgetful of such a precious possession that he's paid such a high price for? No, we're precious to him. He will keep us. This assurance that God is in control of our lives, that he's keeping us, that he's ordering all things for our good, this assurance ought to make us eager to, as Paul says, work out our own salvation with fear and trembling. That is, to put into practice in our lives the things that God has put into our souls. God works them into us We work them out in our lives. God puts his truth and his grace and his son in us. We walk in his truth and his grace and by faith in his son with fear and trembling, because we know God is holy, we know we don't deserve any of these things, but knowing that it is God who works in us both to will and to work for his good pleasure. That's what we're called to. And that's really where this first question of the catechism ends is He makes me heartily willing and ready from now on to live for Him. Do you have that assurance by his Holy Spirit? If you don't have it yet, pray. In many ways, what question one is doing is giving us the big picture of where we're going. If you don't feel this yet, if you're like I kind of know in the abstract that these things are true and biblical, but I don't yet have it in here. Pray. Pray that God would work in your heart, in your life, through these coming weeks and months, as we walk through the catechism, as we walk through Scripture, as we worship together, that God would make it real to you. That you would believe that faith, you would walk by faith and not by sight, that you would see with the eyes of faith, with the eyes of the soul, what is eternally true. And not just the temporary things. You see, the Bible tells us that the seen things, right, the things that we can put our hands on, they are temporary. But the unseen things are eternal. So we need to live for the unseen things, for the promises of God, for the reality of providence, of preservation, of perseverance. These things are things we can't see. We can't put our hands on them. We can wrap our souls around them by faith. So pray that God would work in your hearts and minds through these coming weeks and months. Pray for one another, too, as we're in this together. We're seeking to get this kind of gospel comfort. We want this beautiful language of question one answer to be really more and more true of us as we walk through the catechism and through the Word of God together this year. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we need your gospel comfort. No other comfort will do. So please engrave these truths in Christ. Engrave Christ and His treasuring riches. on our souls, deeply, powerfully, profoundly, that we might have the comfort we need to live for your glory, to be heartily willing and ready from now on to live for you, not for ourselves. We pray this in Jesus' name and for his glory. Amen. Amen. We're going to respond today to God's word by singing the solid rock. On Christ the Solid Rock I stand. All other ground is sinking sand. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus blood and righteousness. I tell now trust us to use praying. But holy Jesus' name. Darkness veils his lovely face. I left on his unchanging grace. Every high and stormy gale high Angel holds within the realm on Christ the style rock upstand All of the ground is sinking standards. On the ground is thinking sound is so True in his love, trouble for me in the well in blood With God around my soul is away, he did On my open day, on collecting all the rock then, all the round. When he shall come with trumpet sound, oh may I then For less to stand before the throne on Christ. Look at them all correct, paintings, all of the right. It's a