Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We have A couple of wonderful gospel comfort catechism questions for us today and on Friday. Questions 27 and 28. We're thinking more deeply about God the Father. And about providence as we work our way through the Heidelberg Catechism. I'm excited about what we have on tap. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, what a privilege and a joy it is to be able to call you Heavenly Father. to know that you hear us as your loved children. We pray that you would be our teacher today by your Holy Spirit. Teach us the truth. Help us to believe it, receive it, live it, respond in joyful obedience and praise. for it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, so we are looking at question number 27 today, but we're going to review the wonderful question we had on Monday, question 26. What do you believe Me when you say, I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth. Answer that the eternal Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who out of nothing created heaven and earth, and all that is in them, and who still upholds and governs them by his eternal counsel and providence, is for the sake of Christ his Son, my God, and My Father, in him I trust so completely as to have no doubt that He will provide me with all things necessary for body and soul, and will also turn to my good. whatever adversity he sends me in this life of sorrow. He is able to do so as Almighty God. and willing also as a faithful father. That is a wonderfully packed catechism question and answer. It actually gets its own Lord's Day in the 52-week set out. So Lord's Day 9 is all about question 26. So today when we go to question 27, we're moving to Lord Say 10, or the next sort of set of questions. And this question is: what do you understand by the providence of God? God's providence is his almighty and ever-present power, whereby, as with his hand He still upholds heaven and earth and all creatures and so governs them that leaf and blade rain and drought, fruitful and barren years, food and drink, health and sickness, riches and poverty, indeed all things, come to us not by chance, but by his fatherly hand. Again, what a wonderful answer. Sometimes we think of providence as some abstract theological term, but really at the heart of the word providence is the word provide. It's how God provides for his creation and in a very special way for us as his children. He provides for all creation. He still upholds heaven and earth and all creatures and so governs them. But everything that happens in our lives, leaf and blade, rain and drought, fruitful and barren years, food and drink, health and sickness, riches and poverty, they don't come by chance. Things don't just happen. You don't get lucky. You don't just have a good day or a bad day. Everything comes to us by his fatherly hand. Which means every day really is a good day because God's always working good for us. Whether we can see it or not, whether it's painful or pleasant, God is working for our good in all of it. Let's go to scripture. Acts 14, verses 15 to 17. This is Paul in Leicester, I believe, and the crowd in the town is trying to worship him as a god. And he's rejecting their worship and redirecting their focus to the one true God. And this is what he says, the Apostle Paul, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of like nature with you, and we bring you good news that you should turn from these vain things to a living God, who made heaven and earth and the sea, and all that is in them. In past generations he allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways, yet he did not leave himself without witness For he did good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. You see, God's providence, God provides for all people everywhere, of all nations. Out of his generous grace he provides in this way as a witness to the fact that God is real. Acts 17, verses 24 to 28. Paul, later in Athens, on this missionary journey, he speaks and he tells the men of Athens, the God who made the world and everything in it. being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by man, nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything. Since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling places that they should seek God and perhaps feel their way toward him and find him Yet he is actually not far from each one of us, for in him we live and move and have our being, as even some of your own poets have said, for indeed we are his offspring. God cares for all humanity as his offspring. Now this is not the same thing as saying that all people are children of God in the way that believers are. To be his offspring means he's created you and he cares for you To be his child means that you've been adopted into his family and made an heir of God and a co-heir with Christ. But God's providence, God's providence is for every nation of mankind on the face of the earth. Matthew 10, 29 to 30. It's not just people who are under the providence of God, but Jesus here says, are not two sparrows sold for a penny? and not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father. But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. See, even the sparrows. Sometimes this time of year you can see birds in migration because it's early spring, late winter, early spring. We saw a huge flock of Canada geese go overhead earlier today. But um last week I was out at uh a church member's house for Bible study and this huge flock of birds came and descended on his yard and then he sort of scared them off and they they left with just massive horde of thousands of birds Yet not one of them falls apart from our Father. He knows all of them, and he cares for all of them. And so what? What does that mean for us? What all that means for us is that we should be thankful and joyful and content at all times. Therefore, my beloved, Paul says in Philippians 2, 12-15, Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence, but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation. with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work, for his good pleasure. Do nothing. Sorry, do all things without grumbling or disputing, that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish, in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation. among whom you shine as lights in the world. You see, this when when Paul writes here, do all things without grumbling or disputing, that you may be blameless and innocent, he's not chastising. He's saying, you are children of God. And as children of God, God cares for you in everything. So in everything, You can work. You're free to work. Free to serve, free to live, without grumbling or disputing, knowing that you are under the care of your Heavenly Father. So again, that brings us back to our question for today. Question 27. What do you understand by the providence of God? God's providence is his almighty and ever-present power, whereby as with his hand He still upholds heaven and earth and all creatures, and so governs them that leaf and blade, rain and drought, fruitful and barren years, food and health Sorry, food and drink, health and sickness, riches and poverty, indeed all things come to us not by chance, but by his fatherly hand. That's the truth that God's Word teaches us, and it's the truth that we must live by. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much that you are so good to us. We pray that we would give thanks to you for all of your blessings. Every day of our lives, every season of our lives. When things are going well for us and it's obvious that we're blessed, when things are going hard for us, and it's hard for us to see how we are blessed. Let us not judge you by our circumstances, but let us judge our circumstances by your unchanging character. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much for joining me again. And as always, let's respond to God's word with worship. We'll sing a hymn of thanksgiving together For the duty of the For the glory of the skies, for the love which from our birth over and Around us lies. Christ are God to the race. This is qualifies. Tú lo puedes hacer la alegoria, se puede dar la idea de la Dios. Of the day and of the night, Hill and Vale and tree and flower, sun and moon and Stars of light Christ are God to hease his stars that qualify the place. So would I tell and give divine to the world? So we thank you for that great, great over night, peace, hold and joy in hell. Christ of God to thee we raise his cause that we find the place.