Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word. One chapter for day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you. As we're now on our 957th day together in the Word of God, and we come to Proverbs 27. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are wisdom, the source of all wisdom And we need you to be our teacher and our guide. As we seek the wisdom that is found in Christ, we pray that you would teach us and write your word in our hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Proverbs 27. Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring. Let another praise you, and not your own mouth, a stranger, and not your own lips. A stone is heavy and sand is weighty, but a fool's provocation is heavier than both Wrath is cruel. Anger is overwhelming, but who can stand before jealousy Better is open rebuke than hidden love. Faithful are the wounds of a friend. Profuse are the kisses of an enemy One who is full loaths honey, but to one who is hungry everything bitter is sweet. Like a bird that strays from its nest is a man who strays from his home Oil and perfume make the heart glad, and the sweetness of a friend comes from his earnest counsel. Do not forsake your friend and your father's friend, and do not go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity. Better is a neighbor who is near than a brother who is far away. Be wise, my son, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him who reproaches me. The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it Take a man's garment when he has put up security for a stranger, and hold it in pledge when he puts up security for an adulteress Whoever blesses his neighbor with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, will be counted as cursing. A continual dripping on a rainy day and a quarrelsome wife are alike. To restrain her is to restrain the wind, or to grasp oil in one's right hand. Iron sharpens iron, and one man sharpens another Whoever tends a fig tree will eat its fruit, and he who guards his master will be honored. As in water face reflects face, so the heart of man reflects the man. Sheol and Abaden are never satisfied, and never satisfied are the eyes of man The crucible is for silver, and the furnace is for gold, and a man is tested by his praise Crush a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with crushed grain, yet his folly will not depart from him. Know well the condition of your flocks, and give attention to your herds, for riches do not last for ever, and does a crown endure to all generations? When the grass is gone And the new growth appears, and the vegetation of the mountains is gathered, the lambs will provide your clothing, and the goats the price of a field There will be enough goat's milk for your food, for the food of your household, and the maintenance of your girls. That is Proverbs chapter 27. Wisdom. Living a life according to wisdom means that in the practical realities of day-to-day life, we are living in harmony with God's Word. We're living with discernment, with thoughtfulness consideration. We're holding things in in right perspective, right? Sometimes people Think, well, I've got this biblical principle, this truth, right? And I'm going to live according to this true biblical principle. And they kind of apply it in a very wooden very absolutist, very inflexible, very insensitive way. And it becomes like the old proverb that a man who has a hammer in his hand is always in search of a nail. Like I've got this one thing and I'm just going to go around and you know, everything must be a nail because all I have is a hammer. And some people act that way about Certain biblical truths. For example, that we always have to tell the truth, or that we always have to stand up for what's right. And yes, absolutely, we should speak the truth in love And we should stand up for what is right with wisdom and discernment. Jesus, when he sent his disciples out, said, Be as innocent as doves, but he also said to be as shrewd as serpents And wisdom is about having the discernment to understand how we should live, how we should apply the truth of God's word, the understanding of the of the doctrines of God and of of the truth of Scripture in an appropriate way, in a way that's going to be giving glory to God, going to be a blessing to others, going to strengthen, and going to establish. So, boasting. Boasting about tomorrow is foolish because you're not God and I'm not God. James says that we should just say, if the Lord wills, we will do such and such a thing. If the Lord wills, we will have such and such a thing. We should not be boasting. Self-praise. You might be speaking the truth about yourself, as far as you understand it, but you shouldn't be praising yourself. You shouldn't be saying, I'm the best, I'm the greatest. No one's better at X than me. You should just be humble and content to let your work speak for itself and let other people speak about you in terms of appraising you. Wrath and anger, jealousy. Jealousy, the green-eyed monster, is so powerful, so compelling, it drives people to do foolish and sinful things. The next couple are about the fact that if someone is really your friend, or if you are really someone's friend, You will speak the truth to them openly, even if it's something that they might not necessarily want to hear, or if your friend is telling you the truth, you need to listen to it because it's better, it's better. Better an open rebuke. Faithful are the wounds of a friend. Profuse are the kisses of an enemy. A lot of times people who are flattering you, beware the flatterer, that advice from Pilgrim's progress. We need to beware the flatterer, because a lot of times people who are flattering us are stabbing us in the back when we're not around One who is full loads honey, but to one who is hungry, everything bitter is sweet. We need to be satisfied and content with what God has given us so that we won't be drawn after that which is harmful to us. So many times people again jealousy can play a role here. Not content with what they have, not satisfied with what God has given. Coveting your neighbor's thing, and so you go into debt to try to get the same thing, coveting some woman who's not your wife, and so you lust. And so we need to be content. Not to covet, not to steal, not to lust. Discontentment takes sinful and harmful things and would convince our soul that they are good for us The sweetness of a friend comes from his artist counsel. It's more important to have some good friends who will tell you the truth than to be surrounded with a whole crowd of yes men who disagree with you on everything and praise you and who never correct you or confront you or challenge your thinking on something. Verse ten is interesting. I I think verse ten is interesting because it seems to me like it's two different proverbs, and whoever did the versification of the Bible uh put them together in one verse, which is interesting, because other places in this very chapter you have what looks like a four-line proverb and it's divided up into two um two verses. I don't know. The verses are not inspired by God. The verses were added later by human editors to help us be able to reference things and find things in our Bibles. That's just a little aside. Do not forsake your friend or your father's friend. Do not go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity. Better is a neighbor who is near than a brother who is far away. You know, you can see that as being all one, you can see that as being two different things. If you are in need, if your neighbor is in need, You shouldn't always be thinking, oh, my my extended family, even though they're far away, like you should be connected into the church and you should have a local church that is uh grounded in your community, the area where you live. So you can be life on life community covenant, community commitment, and help one another. Let's see, we can't cover every proverb. That's one of the challenges of doing these devotionals on the on the on proverbs. Like, well if we cover every proverb, each each devotional will be like an hour long. So let's uh Let's jump down a little bit. Verse 17, iron sharpens iron, so one man sharpens another. I had someone ask me about this. recently when they found out that I was a a believer and a pastor and that I knew the Bible. They're like, what's this iron sharpens iron thing? Well this goes along with a lot of the other advice that's in this chapter, which is about the earnest counsel of a friend and faithful is the rebuke of a friend. You want someone in your life who's going to tell you the truth, who's going to point out flaws in your thinking is gonna help you to think better and to live better, especially more faithfully to the Lord. And that process, you know, when iron sharpens iron, sparks fly. You know, the rough edges get knocked off uh to be made smoother and sharper. But if it's done in love, like we're speaking the truth in love Not to be a critic, but to actually build up, then we're being faithful, and God will use us to sharpen others, and we use others to sharpen us. Sheol and Abadan are never satisfied, verse 20. Never satisfied are the eyes of a man. This is again that idea with, you know, if you're full, you don't even want honey. But if you're hungry, everything bitter is sweet. You can never, ever get enough. So that you will be satisfied. You can see this with wealthy people who keep acquiring things for themselves They get a vineyard in the south of France and they get a ski chalet in Switzerland and they get a vacation home in Acapulco and they get, you know, ten cars and then fifteen cars and then twenty cars and then tear down my garage and build a new one because I need forty cars. There's no end to the craving of the human appetite. The key is to be content with what you have. If we have food and clothing, with this we should be content. See, the Lord is provided, the Lord is good, I have enough, I am satisfied, I am content. Along with this, verses 25. twenty three and twenty four. Know well the condition of your flocks, give attention to your herds. Riches do not last forever. Does a crown endure to all generations? Now being content, being satisfied, doesn't mean we're neglectful We are called to be faithful stewards of the things that God has placed into our care, but knowing that they don't last forever. So not are we seeking to acquire more, not being discontented, but being responsible with what God has given us That's what we need to be doing. When the grass is gone, new growth appears, vegetation in the mountains is gathered. The lambs will provide your clothing, the goats, the price of the field. There will be enough goats' milk for your food, for the food of your household, the maintenance of your girls. Here is The end of this chapter is really talking about how if you are a faithful steward, if you're not irresponsible and foolish, God will provide for you. When there's no grass, then there's new growth, there's vegetation in the mountains, the lambs provide for your clothing, a goat may provide for the price of the field. There's going to be enough. God will take care of you if you are content And if you are wise, in your stewardship. You know, we've seen a lot of inflation recently in America, and a lot of families are having a hard time making ends meet. And that's real. Things are difficult. But most of us, if we look around, we think, well, do I really need these streaming services? Do I really need these subscriptions? Do I really need to go out to eat if I can just make food at home? Do I really need to uh buy a new something if I could just make do with the one that I have already. All these kinds of things help us to be both content and wise, and they're the practical ways in which God meets our needs. There have been a lot of Christians who don't follow wise biblical financial advice. They don't tithe. They're not generous to the poor. They're frivolous in their spending. They're careless in their accounting. And then they end up not having enough. And they think, well, God's not providing for me. Now he has provided for you, but he asks you to be content with what he's given you and to be wise and faithful in how you exercise that. And sometimes we compare this with the Friend rebuke of a friend. Sometimes you need to bring somebody in if you're really struggling financially. You need to bring somebody in, maybe deacons from the church or a good trusted friend who you know is good with money. to take a look at your budget and say, you know what, you don't need this and you don't need this, and you need to be content and satisfied with this instead of that. Um, you know, these this is some of the practical advice that we get from Proverbs. We need good friends in our lives close to us who can tell us the truth. And we need to be content and wise in how we exercise the use of money. And why? Because ultimately it's all for the glory of God. Everything God gives us, people. resources, everything. All things are from Him and through Him and for Him. To Him be the glory forever and ever. So if we want to, on a practical way, in a day-to-day, live a life that glorifies God, we'll need to do so through good friends. and wise decisions and contentment and humility. Let's pray. Father, help us to walk in wisdom, even as you are wisdom. Christ, the embodiment of wisdom He was meek and lowly. He was gentle. He had nothing. He had nothing in terms of worldly riches, and yet you cared for him And he trusted you. Help us to trust you. Help us to walk in wisdom and self-control and humility. In kindness, in wisdom. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Proverbs 27. We're going to go back to the prophet Ezekiel tomorrow. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.