Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Themmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 1029th day together in the Word of God. And we're here in Proverbs chapter 30. Let's pray. Father in heaven, your goodness to us is unfailing, and your word is true. And righteous altogether. So speak to us and give us ears to hear and a heart to receive what you say. In Jesus' name. Amen. Proverbs chapter thirty The words of Agar, son of Jekkah, the Oracle The man declares, I am weary, O God. I am weary, O God, and worn out. Surely I am too stupid to be a man. I have not the understanding of a man. I have not learned wisdom, nor have I knowledge of the Holy One. Who has ascended to heaven and come down? Who has gathered the wind in his fists? Who has wrapped up the waters in a garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is his name? And what is his son's name? Surely you know. Every word of God proves true. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you And you be found a liar. Two things I ask of you. Deny them not to me before I die. Remove far from me. Falsehood and lying. Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food that is needful for me, lest I be full and deny you, and say, Who is the Lord? or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God. Do not slander a servant to his master, lest he curse you and you be held guilty. There are those who curse their fathers and do not bless their mothers. There are those who are clean in their own eyes, but are not washed of their filth. There are those how lofty are their eyes. How high their eyelids lift. There are those whose teeth are swords, whose fangs are knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, the needy from among mankind. The leech has two daughters, give and give. Three things are never satisfied. Four never say enough. Sheol, the barren womb The land never satisfied with water, and the fire that never says enough. The eye that mocks a father and scorns to obey a mother will be plucked out by the ravens of the valley and eaten by the vultures. Three things are too wonderful for me. Four I do not understand. The way of an eagle in the sky, the way of a serpent on a rock. The way of a ship on the high seas, and the way of a man with a virgin. This is the way of an adulteress. She eats and wipes her mouth and says, I have done nothing wrong. Under three things the earth trembles, under four it cannot bear up. A slave when he becomes king, and a fool when he is filled with food. An unloved woman when she gets a husband. husband and a maid servant when she displaces her mistress. Four things on earth are small but they are exceedingly wise. The ants are a people not strong, yet they provide their food in the summer. The rock badgers are a people not mighty, and yet they make their homes in the cliffs The locusts have no king, yet all of them march in rank. The lizard you can take in your hands, yet it is in the king's palaces. Three things are stately in their tread. Four are stately in their stride. The lion, which is mightiest among beasts, and does not turn back before any the threading rooster, the he-goat, and a king whose army is with him. If you have been foolish, exalting yourself, or if you have been devising evil, put your hand on your mouth For pressing milk produces curds, pressing the nose produces blood, and pressing anger produces strife. Proverbs thirty begins with this wonderful, powerful statement about God, and then it gives us these practical wisdoms. uh in these sets of three and four that come in the latter part of the chapter. Well we don't know who Agar, son of Jacka, is he's not found anywhere else in the Bible. Um A traditional Jewish interpretation is that Agar is a nickname for Solomon, but there's really no reason to believe that. It could be someone who's not even Israelite. But God could speak through them. I think it shows us that the ways of God are are unexpected. And that's a lot of what this chapter shows us, is that the ways of God are unexpected. This man says, I am weary, O God. I am weary, O God, and worn out. And he's asking questions about who God is. He he's professing his ignorance, even though he's obviously a wise and learned man, but but he's wondering, he's asking questions about who God is. And what's very interesting is at the end of verse 4, he says, What is his name, and what is his son's name? Surely you know Hmm. Well, we look at this as Christians, of course, and we say, ah, interesting. A reference to the Son of God. And that could be a reference to the Son of God. Could also be a reference to Israel as the Son of God, and this one being a foreigner, maybe looking at Israel. And of course, Jesus is the fulfillment of all that Israel was supposed to be, as we learned yesterday in Hosea. So even even pagans, even unbelievers, can ask right questions about the one true God. And they can know And here, this man, whether he's an Israelite or not, has had exposure to the Word of God. And that's how people ultimately come to know God is through him. His word. And every word of God proves true. He's a shield to those who take refuge in him. The words of God are fixed, reliable, dependable. They're not only true and accurate without fault, but they are to be trusted. They can bear the weight of our hopes and our faith and our expectations. Don't add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar. That's all the cults that are prospering throughout our world have added to God's word. Islam added the Quran later to God's word. word. Jehovah's Witnesses, you know, they they add the Watchtower magazine and the pronouncements from the Watchtower Bible and Track Society. The Mormons add the Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price. They add. We shouldn't add. We should study to know and understand and grow in. This request of agar here in verses 7 through 9 is a wonderful request. He wants two things from God. He wants to not be false or a liar, and he wants to not be either rich or poor. Poor. Because he knows that both of those things can be a snare. So he he's humble. He's he's opened up by talking about his humility. He knows himself well enough to know he wants to be kept from falsehood and lying. He doesn't want to be a man of dishonesty or to believe dishonest things. But he also wants to be a man who has enough so that he won't be tempted to be. be stealing and profane the name of God, but one who doesn't have so much that you can be self-satisfied and forget God. There are dangers. A lot of people just think, oh man, if I was raised up be all But rich people are very often unbelievers because they don't feel any need of God. They just forget about God. Be content with what God's given you. Be thankful for where God's put you. Do not slander a servant to his master lest he curse you and you be held guilty. Slander. Remember, every Christian is a servant of the Master King Jesus. One of the most commonly acceptable Christian sins is to slander other believers. In an unfair way. We need to be careful that when we're speaking about other believers, we're being true and charitable in what we say about them There are those who curse their fathers and don't bless their mothers. There are those who are clean in their own eyes and not wash of their filth. There are those who are prideful, how lofty their eyes. There are those whose teeth are swords to devour the poor from off the face of the earth and the needy from mankind. Four types. We're getting into this section now with these different types. These are four types of people who God is not pleased with and who do much damage in the world. First is those who don't respect those who are in authority over them and those who have given to them and blessed them. And this the generation gap. We celebrate this in America, the younger generations rebelling against the older generations and kind of stick it in your eye, and I know better than you. Pride. We celebrate that in America too. We loftiness. And th and we also celebrate like having high self-esteem and thinking well of yourself, even though you're not actually forgiven. You didn't ask for forgiveness from your sin. You just think, I haven't sinned. And then those who attack the poor, those who prey on the needy Our culture celebrates these people. We need to be aware that God's estimate of them is very, very different from what our culture says. Three things are never satisfied, four are never enough. So this rest of the chapter is a series of three and four. Um Sheol, the Barren Woman, the land never satisfied with water, and the fire that never says enough. There are things, there are situations in life into which you cannot give enough in order for it to be adequate. So you need discernment to know when giving more to a situation is actually doing more harm than good. There's a great book called Helping Without Hurting That helps us to think about how we can help the poor and needy without hurting them by just creating a system of dependency or creating a whole system of brokenness. Sometimes you can do too much and make things even worse off than they were. Some land won't take water, pour it on too fast, it just creates a flash flood. That can happen in life when you give in a situation where it's not going to be helpful. Look at the three things and the four in verses eighteen to nineteen. The way of an eagle in the sky. The way of a serpent on a rock, the way of a ship on the high seas, the way of a man with a virgin There's there is no trace left behind from any of these things. When an eagle flies to the sky, it doesn't leave a trail behind. When there's a s serpent on a rock doesn't leave a trail behind. There's a ship in the high seas doesn't leave a trail behind. And the way of a man with a virgin is No observable change if you are chaste, if you are upright then it doesn't leave behind damage. Under three things the earth trembles, under four it cannot bear up. There uh being being not content with where God has put you. And being given things that you have no capacity to enjoy. I think of uh people who become like Bitcoin millionaires or pe some people who win the lottery and they don't really know what to do with that kind of money 'cause they were never really prepared to handle it. And they just blow it on, you know, buy Lamborghinis and then crash them and total them or they you know, just God puts you in a place and you should be faithful to that calling and not just want to be somewhere else or something else because sometimes you get there and it's terrible. So many people who win the lottery and get millions of dollars and are flat broke with an handful of years and they've made enemies of everybody in their life because it all became about getting something that wasn't really yours in the first place. And so it's just we need to be content. We need to be satisfied. Um the next set of four things are to tell us not to underestimate small things. Small things can be powerful things. The little things in life matter a lot. A lot more than we sometimes give them credit for. We need to pay attention to those small things that are significant. The next thing we have things that are stately in their tread. The really the point of this section is about the king with his when his army is with him. To get the king with his army with him, and he's gonna strut around like he owns the place. That's both humility to the king, but also caution to those who would oppose the king Finally, chapter thirty ends with a warning not to be foolish, because it can cause devastating consequences. in your mouth, whether that's by speaking slanderous things and devising evil, or by pressing anger in a foolish way, that's going to lead to conflict. Love Proverbs. It just lays out to us in very real and practical ways how we are to live in accordance with God's wisdom, in accordance with the ways that God has made the world to work. And much of it has to do with faithfulness and contentment and trusting God are much, much, much more important than the things that the world values, boasting. and trying to become better than you are and grasping for things that haven't been given to you and despising small things as being unimportant. God is God and you are not. I am not. God's word is true and reliable. Our words are not. The place that God has given us is the place where we should be satisfied. Satisfied and content and thankful. And we should be faithful and diligent and wise. I pray that God would help us to do that. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for your love, for your faithfulness, for your unfailing goodness. Help us to trust your word. Help us to be content with what you've given us. Help us to be thankful and help us to be faithful. We pray all these things in Jesus' name and for his glory in our lives. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Proverbs 30. Tomorrow we are going to get back to Hosea. Until then, have a blessed day in the Lord.