Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 798th day together in God's Word, getting very close to 800 days together, and we're here in Proverbs 22. I hope you're doing well today. It's as I'm recording this, it's kind of a gray, dreary, drizzly day I've got my favorite coffee mug filled with really good coffee. And uh I hope you're doing well. I hope you're ready to dig in and get some wisdom from God today from Proverbs 22. Let's pray. Father, we need you. You are wisdom itself and the source of all true wisdom. So be our teacher today and guide us. Let us walk in wisdom by faith to your glory in Jesus' name. Amen Proverbs twenty two A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, and favor is better than silver or gold. The rich and the poor meet together, the Lord is maker of them all. The prudent sees danger and hides himself But the simple go on and suffer for it. The reward for humility and fear of the Lord is riches and honor and life. Thorns and snares are in the way of the crooked. Whoever guards his soul will keep far from them. Train up a child in the way he should go, even when he is old he will not depart from it. The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower is the slave of the lender. Whoever sows injustice will reap calamity, and the rod of his fury will fail Whoever has a bountiful eye will be blessed for he shares his bread with the poor. Drive out a scoffer, and strife will go out, and quarreling and abuse will cease. He who loves purity of heart, and whose speech is gracious, will have the king as his friend. The eyes of the Lord keep watch over knowledge, but he overthrows the words of the traitor The sluggard says, There's a lion outside, I shall be killed in the street. The mouth of forbidden women is a deep pit He with whom the Lord is angry will fall into it. Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him Whoever oppresses the poor to increase his own wealth, or gives to the rich, will only come to poverty Incline your ear and hear the words of the wise and apply your heart to my knowledge, for it will be pleasant if you keep them within you If all of them are ready on your lips, then that your trust may be in the Lord, I have made them known to you today, even to you. Have I not written for you thirty sayings of counsel and knowledge to make you know what is right and true, that you may give a true answer to those who sent you? Do not rob the poor because he is poor, or crush the afflicted at the gate, for the Lord will plead their cause, and rob of life those who rob them Make no friendship with a man given to anger, nor go with a wrathful man lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in a snare. Be not one of those who gives pledges, who put up security for debts. If you have nothing with which to pay, why should your bed be taken from under you? Do not move the ancient landmark that your fathers have set. Do you see a man skillful in his work? He will stand before kings. He will not stand before obscure men. That is Proverbs 22. It's appropriate that I'm drinking from this mug today with that last verse. someone skillful in their work. The artist who made this is a handcrafted mug made by an art a pottery artist in Georgia that bought it. from her at an art gallery. Actually it was bought for me as a gift from her at an art gallery. It's very very much a reflection of the skillful work that Proverbs prizes. So Proverbs, again, we've if we come back to Proverbs so inconsistently because we're spreading 31 chapters out of our three years. We should remind ourselves of what Proverbs are. Proverbs are wise sayings. They are truisms. They are sayings about life that are good practical life advice. They're not promises from God. Okay? We get to one here that is often mistaken as a promise of God, and that is Proverbs 22, 6, train up a child in the way he should go, even when he is old he will not depart from it. That is not a promise of God. Neither is verse 4, the reward for humility and fear of the Lord is riches and honor and life. If you take verse 4 as an absolute promise from God, then you know what? Job's friends, we've been in Job, Job's friends are right It's not. It is a truism. Now, it's true in the eternal sense that if you walk in humility and you fear the Lord, in eternity you will receive eternal life. And You will be blessed abundantly. But in this life it's often the case that those who are humble and who fear the Lord do not uh have a life of riches and honor and life. So don't take these things as promises from God. They're not. They're proverbs and they're good proverbs, right? But they're they're maxims, they're they're aphorisms, they are they are sayings of the wise collected together. Some of them are just absolutely true. Like the rich and the poor meet together, the Lord is the maker of them all. That's absolutely true. God made rich and poor people, and before when they're gathered in before God on judgment day, when they meet their maker, So the ground is level, right? And they are they're gonna be there. And that's why it's good to have a good name rather than great riches Or favor better than silver or gold. You see you can't understand these things as absolute truths because some of these counter each other like uh or counterbalance each other, not contrary to each other, but they're counterbalancing each other. Verse 1 and verse 4, you can see the counterbalancing, right? You could have great riches, you could have silver and gold and not have a good name You could be humble and you could fear the Lord and you could get riches and honor in life. But that means verse one means you might not, right? You might have humility and fear of the Lord and not have riches and honor and long life in this life Because sometimes you have to choose between a good name or great riches. And having a good name means you won't have great riches, right? And that's why it's good that the rich and the poor are going to meet together because the Lord is the maker of them all. The ground is level. So it's better in the end to be humble, to fear the Lord, and have a good name, because you're going to stand before your Maker one day. Now, let me address the parenting verses here, just as an aside. So two very famous parenting verses. Verse six, train up a child in the way he should go, and even when he is old, he will not depart from it. And then Verse 15, Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him. These two verses have often been abused in the Christian world when it comes to teaching on godly, faithful Christian parenting. Verse six has been taken as a as a promise, right? So when you when you train Right, you are basically doing the way this is often applied. You do behavior modification, right? You you give them an instant reward or or or a encouragement when they do the right thing, when they do the wrong thing, you bring out that rod of discipline, you drive out that folly far from them, right? And and you you immediate negative consequences. Right? Um well that's not really exactly what God's talking about here, right? That's not the heart of these. To bring up a child in the way he should go is more than just behavior modification or consequences for action. or having well the well-trained child, right? Having someone who's really, really obedient and walks the line, right? What have we seen? If you've lived life very long and you've seen very much of life, you have probably seen kids who as young children walked that line and their parents were on them, don't you step out of line and that rod of discipline was not spared and it looked like the folly was being driven out of the heart of that child because they were very respectful, very polite, very obedient, very compliant. And then when they get older Goodbye. They run away. And I would say part of that maybe because this is not a promise, but just a truism. But also part of that is that that wasn't training up the child in the way he should go. That was being overly strict, overbearing, micromanaging, behavior modification. And and if we're honest, very often done especially for public display to impress others and for the parent to get a sort of an attaboy. Aren't you a great parent? You're just so wonderful, you're the model p family. None of that's the way that a child should go. A child should not grow up to be proud, to want approval from others to be overly strict and harsh, to micromanage, right? That's not. That's not what the Bible encourages us to do. At all. And yet, if we're honest within Christian circles, that is often what happens. Rather, to train up a child the way he should go, we should be teaching our children to trust the Lord. to pray, to to think, to consider, to weigh things, right? We should be helping them. Grow in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and in God's love for them and in God's correction of them with love. It's always with love and it's always for their good. Now, sometimes parents will say, I'm only doing this because I love you and I'm doing this for your good, but everything about their disposition and their demeanor. says to the child differently. Right? Says to the child there's this contradiction between, I'm only doing this because I love you and I'm only doing this for your good. And maybe the parent even believes that in their mind, but really what they're doing is harsh and uh dictatorial, frankly. And that's not the way that we should be treating our children because that's not the way they should go. We don't want them to grow up to be unloving. overly strict, harsh, right? And so I'm not saying all Christian parents do this, but it has been done, right? In the name of Proverbs. Uh 2215 especially the rod of fool follies bound up in the heart of a child, the rod of discipline will drive it out. Um frankly things that are abusive toward children have been justified in in the name of this uh keeping with Proverbs uh guidance on how to raise children. That's not what we should do. Instead, if you take it in the context with the rest of Proverbs, what you'll see is that integrity, humility, the fear of the Lord, generosity, justice, You know, these kinds of things are what ought to characterize all of our lives, and we should train up our children in walking in these ways. Not that any of us are sinless. Part of that humility is confessing when we sin. So confessing to our children when we sin against them, or when they witness us sinning against our spouse, or we need to confess and own it up. That's part of humility, right? And so this this gentle and this loving and this faithful and this way of integrity, that is what Proverbs is really painting as the overall picture. So rather than taking a verse or two. out of context and trying to make them either a promise or an absolute standard. As soon as a child disobeys, you have to have that rod of discipline right there. No, that's not that is not how God treats us That is not how we want to be treated by other people. Jesus said the summary of the law and the prophets is to treat other people the way you'd want to be treated. And if you were a five year old, you would not want someone inflicting the rod of discipline every single time you step out of line. No. Yeah, not that there's not discipline and consequence, because there is, but it's to be done so with love and with patience. and to help them grow as a person, not just toe the line. So that's that's mostly what I felt like I should emphasize in Proverbs 22. But there's a couple of other things uh generosity to the poor and uh that's really really important um it's also important to stay out of debt, right? The borrow is the slave of the lender. But if you are in a position where you are wealthy and you do have power over the poor, you should be bountiful and you should share. Don't lend and expect interest in return. If you see someone who's poor and who's in need, Don't lend to them and make them your slave. Give to them if you can meet their need and allow them to walk in in freedom. And this goes along also with the last verse here of Proverbs twenty-two. Sorry, not the last verse, last verse is section, Proverbs 22, 16. Whoever oppresses the poor to increase his own wealth or gives it to the rich will only come to poverty. And this is Frankly, you can see this a lot in the world too. You know, people who just don't care about those below them, right? They're climbing up the ladder of success and they're stepping on everybody below them every rung of the way. And they're buttering up to the people who are above them. And that is just something that the Lord forbids and says will only come to poverty. And maybe not in this life. But in eternity, if that's been the way you've lived your life, uh it's not gonna it's not gonna be well. It's not gonna be good for you, it's not gonna go well with you. Again we get this emphasis In verse 22, do not rob the poor because he is poor, or crush the afflicted at the gate, for the Lord will plead their cause and rob of life those who rob them. And there are many ways that we can go about robbing the poor. And we need to make sure that we are being bountiful, generous, kind, treating people the way we want to be treated. Because that is that's what God calls us. That's how God treats us. Like we're spiritually poor, we're spiritually bankrupt. We we're we're in debt up to our eyeballs spiritually before God, and God is bountiful to us and gracious and doesn't treat us the way our sins deserve and is kind to us and and shares his bounty with us. That's how we're to treat our children, and that's how we're to treat those who are less advantaged around us as well. Let's be more like Jesus, more like God in how we live out Proverbs in our lives. Let's pray Father, thank you for this wisdom from Proverbs. Help us to apply it with love and to walk in it by faith, in imitating Christ and in being Christ-like in our disposition toward others. Remembering that Jesus told us that it is more blessed to give than to receive, and that we should treat others the way we would want to be treated. And that loving you and loving others are the most important commandments. Help us remember all those things as we seek to live out the wisdom of Proverbs in our speech, in our conduct. um in our character, in our hearts. We pray this for your glory in our lives in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for Proverbs 22. I help I hope That the Lord will bless you with a day where you can walk in wisdom by faith in love. Have a blessed day in the Lord.