Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you. We are in our 907th day together in the Word of God. And we come to Proverbs 25. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for the wisdom of Proverbs. Thank you for all parts of your word. It is a blessing for us to be able to be in your word day by day We pray that you would write the wisdom of Proverbs 25 on our hearts this morning, that we might grow in our knowledge of you and our love for you. We might walk with you by faith in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Proverbs 25. These also are Proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah, king of Judah, copied It is the glory of God to conceal things, but the glory of kings is to search things out. As the heavens for height and the earth for depth, so the heart of kings is unsearchable. Take away the draws from the silver, and the smith has material for a vessel Take away the wicked from the presence of the king, and his throne will be established in righteousness. Do not put yourself forward in the king's presence presence, or stand in the place of the great, for it is better to be told, come up here, than to be put lower in the presence of a noble. What your eyes have seen, do not hastily bring into court, for what will you do in the end when your neighbor puts you to shame Argue your case with your neighbor himself, and do not reveal another's secret, lest he who hears Bring shame upon you, and your ill repute have no end. A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in a setting of silver Like a gold ring or an ornament of gold is a wise reprover to a listening ear. Like the cold of snow in the time of harvest is a faithful messenger to those who send him He refreshes the soul of his masters. Like clouds and wind without rain, is a man who boasts of a gift he does not give With patience a ruler may be persuaded, and a soft tongue will break a bone. If you have found honey, eat only enough for you, lest you have your fill of it and vomit. Lest your foot sorry, let your foot be seldom in your neighbor's house, lest he have his fill of you and hate you. A man who bears false witness against his neighbor Neighbor is like a war club or a sword or a sharp arrow. Trusting in a treacherous man in a time of trouble is like a bad tooth or a foot that slips. Whoever sings songs to a heavy heart is like one who takes off a garment on a cold day and like vinegar on soda. If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat. And if he is thirsty, give him water to drink, for you will be you will heap burning coals on his head, and the Lord will reward you. The north wind brings forth rain, and a backbiting tongue angry looks. It is better to live. in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a quarrelsome wife. Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country Like a muddied spring or a polluted fountain is a righteous man who gives way before the wicked. It is not good to eat much honey Nor is it glorious to seek one's own glory. A man without self-control is like a city broken into and left without walls. That is Proverbs 25. Much wisdom here, of course, always in Proverbs. The first section really has to do with the kings. And we can apply this for good principles for government and for and for leadership. It is the glory of God to conceal things, but the glory of kings to search them out. Now, God has created within His creation just a marvelous treasure of knowledge and understanding to be discovered. You think of inventions and medicines and minerals, all the things that we've been able to do with the created world, right? We learned pretty early on that you can take certain plant matter and turn them into paper and use that to make books and to print things. And then more recently we've learned that lithium and nickel and cobalt can be put together into these special batteries that hold a very, very high electrical charge for a very very high long time. So all of these things we've discovered, most of the medicine we've discovered has been discovered from nature. I think this is what this is referring to. It's the glory of God to conceal things. God has put within his creation wonderful things for us to discover. It's the glory of kings. to search things out. And I do think this this lends credence to the idea that governments should be sponsoring science and discovery and exploration. So when When Christopher Columbus sailed in 1492, he was sponsored by the King and Queen of Spain. Now they were they had selfish means for it, but but exploration, discovery uh going to the moon, going to Mars. This this is this is all part of what we have here in verse two. Now The other thing that a king needs, though, he needs righteous counselors the ones who are going to tell him the truth. And there are several verses in this chapter that talk about that. Verses four and five talk about just as you need to take the dross away from silver so the smith has material for a vessel, you need to take the wicked away from the presence of the king. And verses six and seven talk about how you don't want to be self-advancing in the king's presence. The king doesn't need people who are just always wanting to put themselves forward because he needs people who are going to be really concerned with the good, the welfare of the kingdom, the welfare of the country. So those are all principles for good governance. It's good to have a curious, investigative, scientific, exploring mind, not have wicked advisors, not have self-promoting people. The next section talks about neighbor relations. What your eyes have seen, do not hastily bring into court, for what will you do in the end when your neighbor puts you to shame? You know, you need to get along with your neighbor. You need to you need to love your neighbor as yourself, as Jesus said is the second most important commandment in all the law. Here we don't want to be looking for things to blame our neighbor for or looking for for things that cause quarrel with our neighbor because they could easily turn the table on us and i that's just not the way you should you should be approaching your neighbor at all. Um if you have a legitimate grief with a neighbor, you should argue that case with your neighbor himself himself. You should go to them. You should say, look, this is this thing going on, maybe it's a property boundary dispute. something that they're doing that's maybe they're playing music really late at night or maybe whatever, I just go to them directly. Um And so you don't want to go gossiping about people. You don't want to go slandering people. You know, all of this, a lot of this wisdom is summarized by Jesus when he said, Do to others as you would have them do to you. But our first reaction when we're wronged, our natural human reaction is to say, oh, that's not right. I'm going to get that person. We need to stop and think, wait a minute, what if I was in the position they were in? Would I want how would I want someone to respond? Would I want someone to just want to get back at me? Would I want someone to seek peace and reconciliation? Now, you may find in time that not all people are so easy to reason with, that not all people are so easy to work things out with, but you should at least try to work things out, to go to them to treat them the way that you would want to be treated. A word fitly spoken? Priceless. Like apples of gold in a setting of silver. I mean that's just priceless. Can you imagine a bowl full of apple-sized pieces of gold, and the bowl itself is made of silver. Good sound advice. Someone who's willing to tell you the truth and tell it to you straight and tell it to you because they have your best interests at heart. That is priceless. Like a gold ring or an ornament of gold is a wise reprover to a listening ear. Now that means two things. One is if you love someone and you and you see something that you want to talk to them about, you need to wait for the right time to do it, because it's a word fitly spoken, right? And it it's a wise reproof. Not someone who's just going around telling everybody what they think all the time. And the other thing is you need to be the one who listens, the one who sees the treasure in this. So both when you have an opportunity to speak, make sure it's fitly spoken, make sure it's wise, make sure it's loving, and when it's time for you to hear it, make sure you're willing to listen Like the cold of snow in the time of harvest is a faithful messenger to those who send him. He refreshes the soul of his master. You're working hard out in the field harvesting And you get a little bit of snow, it just refreshes. But, like clouds and wind without rain, is a man who boasts of gifts, of a gift he does not give. Empty promises, false promises, are to be avoided at all cost. Back to the ruler, with patience. The ruler may be persuaded, and a soft tongue will break a bone. Patient endurance. Kind Consistency. Many people can say loud things, can say boisterous things, can say boastful things, but it's the person who speaks the truth in love. patiently, with steadfast kindness, who ends up winning the day in the end. We have a warning against gluttony in verse 16. If you found honey, eat only enough for you Uh, lest you eat your filibit and vomit. More advice on neighbor relations in verse seventeen. Don't be always in your neighbor's house. You know, don't wear out your welcome, right? Well the old saying, uh fish and visitors both stink. after three days, something like that. Now, false witness. We had earlier the fitly spoken word, the word of wise reproof. Here's the opposite a false witness. That is that is really dangerous. We grew up learning the ditty, sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me. That is so wrong, right? That's almost like wishful thinking. Words are sometimes much, much, much more deadly than sticks and stones. In fact, they're as deadly as a club or a sword or a sharp arrow if you're bearing false witness, if you're gossiping about something If you're slandering them, if you're assuming the worst of them and then talking to others about it, we sometimes we don't think, oh, I'm not really gossiping or slandering, I'm just expressing my concerns. Well, unless you're expressing them directly to the person with whom you have concerns concerns, you you're not. Especially if you've assumed a bad motive, if you've assumed an an evil heart, and then you're talking about that person behind that back, that that's Right. So you need to make sure that your truth your your words are truth spoken in love, and the right thing to do if you have a concern is to go directly to the person you have All right, jumping down to uh verse twenty-one. Your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, if he's thirsty, give him water to drink, for you'll heap burning coals on his head, and the Lord will reward you. This Paul picks this up in Romans 12 and puts it in the context of do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. If someone has a problem with you, if someone doesn't like you, if someone's talking bad about you and you've heard about it, the best thing to do is not try to get back at them. Be kind to them. Be gracious to them, be loving to them. You may convict them of how wrong they're being But at the very least, in the end, the Lord will reward you for not getting down in the mud with that person, but speaking the truth in love and treating that person with kindness Um like cold water to a thirsty soul is good news from a far country. Like a muddied spring or a polluted fountain is a righteous man who gives way before the wicked. Verse 25. This is a way to read the Proverbs gospally, a gospel way of reading. Verse 25 is, I think, a call to missions for us as Christians. What is the best good news that we could bring to those who have never heard the gospel, to those who are in the unreached people groups of the the world. Bring them the gospel. Bring them the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is cold water to a thirsty soul. Well, we need to be careful that as we're speaking the truth in this world, speaking the truth in love, we're not giving way before the wicked. What does that mean? Well, our culture. has a lot of immorality, a lot of debauchery, a lot of selfishness, a lot of immoral you know, sexual immorality, materialism, greed. uh angry political divisiveness, celebration of of pride, and I don't just mean Pride Month, but but I actual pride. All of that is not for the Christian to to go along with. And when we go along with that, and then we speak the good news It's contradictory. It's contradictory. So we need to make sure that we are speaking the truth in love, but also walking with integrity. It's not good to eat too much honey, nor is it glorious to seek one's own glory. Here's a proverb that in two lines summarizes and recapitulates. several proverbs from earlier in the chapter, right? Avoid gluttony and avoid self-promotion. And then the final is a man without self-control is like a city broken into and left without walls. And here's a key, and this is why this is the close of this chapter, I think. You can have all the wise principles in the world. You can know the truth, but if you don't have self-control, Your flesh will guide you. It will enslave you. You will lose your temper and you will overeat and you will be lazy and you will be a glutton and you will be prideful because you don't have self-control. You may know you're not supposed to do those things, but you'll gossip anyway. You may know you're not supposed to do those things, but you'll So we need self-control. We need to be praying that in addition to all the other virtues that we need in Christ, we need self-control to actually put them into Well that's Proverbs 25, another great dose of wisdom, practical advice for life, but also a a picture of Christ, because we need to be reminded whenever we're in Proverbs that Jesus perfectly lived out the Proverbs in his life. He was never inappropriately self-promoting. He was never overly self-indulgent. He always spoke the truth in love, even if those words were hard and direct. He always went directly to the person that he had a problem with. He never, you know, he he would confront the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the and the teachers of the law. He wouldn't just talk about them behind their back. So Jesus is our embodiment of this, and it's only his righteousness applied to us by the Holy Spirit. in our sanctification that gives us the hope of really being able to grow more and more, like this picture of Proverbs. Let's pray together Heavenly Father, thank you for Proverbs 25. Thank you for the challenging wisdom that we find here. We pray that Christ in us would be our righteousness, our peace. Our growth and wisdom. We need Jesus, who has become for us wisdom, righteousness, and sanctification. As 1 Corinthians says, So Father, groweth in Christ, and in Christ's likeness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for Proverbs twenty-five. Tomorrow we're going back to Jeremiah. If you're wondering, when are we getting back to Revelation? That's a few more days, so two more days in Jeremiah, and then we'll be in Revelation 2. Three days from now. So have a blessed day in the Lord.