Good morning, good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is day 614 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, one chapter at a time, and we're here in Proverbs chapter 17, back to the book of Proverbs. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, all parts of your word. We love your word because it comes from you and it's a precious gift to us We pray that you would bless us in understanding your word. Help us to be prepared to understand it with our minds and receive it with our hearts and respond to it with faith in you and with obedience to you. And may we see Jesus, who is the embodiment of wisdom, portrayed here for us in these lines. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Proverbs seventeen, Better is a dry morsel with quiet than a house full of feasting with strife. A servant who deals wisely will rule over a son who acts shamefully and will share the inheritance as one of the brothers The crucible is for silver, and the furnace is for gold, and the Lord tests hearts. An evildoer listens to wicked lips. And a liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue. Whoever mocks the poor insults his maker. He who is glad at calamity will not go unpunished Grandchildren are the crown of the aged, and the glory of children is their fathers. Fine speech is not becoming to a fool, still less false speech to a prince. A bribe is like a magic stone in the eyes of the one who gives it. Wherever he turns, he prospers. Whoever covers an offense seeks love, but he who repeats a matter separates close friends. A rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding. than a hundred blows into a fool. An evil man seeks only rebellion, and a cruel messenger will be sent against him Let a man meet a she-bear, robbed of her cubs, rather than a fool in his folly. If any one returns evil for good, and will not If anyone returns evil for good, evil will not depart from his house. The beginning of strife is like letting out water. So quit before the coral breaks out He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous are both alike an abomination to the Lord. Why should a fool have money in his hand to buy wisdom when he has no sense? A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. One who lacks sense gives a pledge and puts up security in the presence of his neighbor Whoever loves transgression loves strife. He who makes his door high seeks destruction. A man of crooked heart does not discover good, and one with a dishonest tongue falls into calamity. He who sires a fool gets himself sorrow, and the father of a fool has no joy. A joyful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones The wicked accepts a bribe in secret to pervert the ways of justice. The discerning sets his face toward wisdom, but the eyes of a fool are on the ends of the earth A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to him who bore to her who bore him. To impose a fine on a righteous man is not good, nor to strike the noble for their uprightness Whoever restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding. Even a fool who keeps silent is considered wise when he closes his lips He is deemed intelligent. Hmm. That is Proverbs 17. You know, verse 1 could be almost the tagline for the Kardashians or for the housewives of real housewives of blank Uh I never watch any of those shows, but every once in a while they're inflicted upon me when I'm at the gym or, you know, at the car repair place or waiting in the uh dentist office or whatever. Um and These people who have all this money but who have no sense and who have no quiet, who have no love really in their relationships and just the arguing and the and the bickering and people like watching that. I don't I do not understand why people like watching that. But uh we can be tempted to think that what we need in our lives is more money But really we have more than enough, right? We have more than enough food to eat, we have more than enough clothing to wear, we are blessed, we are well off. And it is so much better to have peace and quiet, to have harmony, to have loving relationships than to have more stuff. And the problems that that so often brings. uh into our lives when we get it. Um Proverbs is giving us practical wisdom for daily living. It's giving us a portrait of how life is meant to be lived. And it's giving us general principles for how things generally go in the world. Proverbs are truisms. They are true statements about regular patterns of human behavior. We have to be careful not to take them too far, not to try to turn them into promises, not to try to turn them into absolutes. Every genre of literature within the Bible has to be interpreted according to the rules for that genre and and proverbs are not promises and they are not absolute uh truth statements that without any exception at all. Okay? Some of them are And some of them aren't. So I'll give you a few examples. A servant who deals wisely will rule over a son who acts shamefully and will share the inheritance as one of the brothers Now is that an absolute statement? Does that happen 100% of the time? No. You can imagine places where a servant is dealing wisely. But the father just has a very strong partiality for his own children and even children who act shamefully. And so the father favors those children and doesn't give the servant any kind of an inheritance. So it's a it's a true enough statement in that it's telling us that if you deal wisely If you are faithful, if you do a good job in your job, you're going to be rewarded for it. But in the modern context We've all known of cases where a good, faithful employee who is of great value to a company and who does really good work gets overlooked for a promotion, sometimes for the boss's nephew, who's, you know, a deadbeat, no-good, you know, person who doesn't really bring any value to the company. So sometimes that happens. right but still generally speaking in the general patterns of life verse 2 holds true well verse 3 is an absolute statement. The crucible is for silver, the furnace is for gold, and the Lord tests the hearts. If you want to test silver to see how pure it is, you submit it to the crucible. If you want to test the gold and see how pure it is, you submit it to the furnace. How do we know how pure a heart is? Only the Lord knows that, right? So the Lord is the one who must test the heart. So Verse 2 is a statement that's generally true as a normal pattern of life, and verse 3 is an absolute statement. So how can you tell the difference between them? Well, you have to have wisdom Proverbs is the book of wisdom, and it turns out that rightly discerning and rightly interpreting Proverbs also takes wisdom. How do we do that? Well, we take it in context with the rest of Scripture. We take it in context with what the promises of God are. There's no verse in the Bible that says as a guaranteed promise from God that if you are servant and you deal wisely, you are going to get a share of the inheritance from the owner of the business. There's nothing in the Bible that promises that. And so, but it's a good pattern. It's also a reminder to us that in all of our service we serve the Lord, right? It's what Paul says when he's encouraging servants or slaves to be obedient to their masters to keep in mind that they serve a master who is in heaven and that they need to serve him. when they're serving their master. And that's ultimately God, who tests the hearts, will deal well with those who serve well and who serve wisely, even if they are neglected. in this world. So you can take even things that are just general truisms in this world, and they might not always be true, we can say, well if God gave it to us in his word, this is something that God values. God values a servant who deals wisely. We should be servants who deal wisely. And even if we don't get the earthly reward that's kind of promised here and not promised, but pictured. uh proverbed as a general pattern in verse two, God will watch over us when he tests our hearts and he will give us what what is right. Right, so this is uh this is how we sort of handle the book of Proverbs. Well let's go on and look at some more. Uh evildoer listens to wicked lips, a liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue. But whoever mocks the poor insults his maker, he who is glad at calamity will not go unpunished. These proverbs here taken together are a very strong warning against gossip. Why are these reality shows so popular within our culture? Because people like to gossip, and the juiciest gossip is always when you have something bad to spread about someone else. Uh no, you shouldn't be glad at someone else's calamity. Uh you shouldn't give ear to a mischievous tongue, right? You shouldn't uh Listen to wicked lips. You should stay away from gossip. Remember that everyone in the world is made in the image of God, and we should speak the truth in love about everyone that God puts. in our lives. One of the most obvious and vicious ways we see this happening all the time, and that Christians can fall right into, is the sort of obvious double standard that's used in talking about politicians. So if someone is a Republican and is, you know, right leaning, they will defend and make excuses for someone they support and then see the same behaviors in someone they don't support and absolutely roast them and absolutely think the worst of them and And slander them. And then vice versa. Someone who is a Democrat or someone who leans to the left will look at something that someone on the right says or does and will say, oh that's ridiculous, it's terrible, and yet the same exact thing that happens from someone coming from their side they'll defend and cover over. This double standard shows that we're not looking at people primarily as this is someone who's made in the image of God and whom God calls me to love But rather this is someone who's on my side or this is someone who's on their side and the people on my side I'll speak well of, but the people who are on their side I'm gonna badmouth. And that's just something that we as Christians We are called by God to rise above that kind of pettiness and to see all people as made in God's image and to treat people the way that we would want to be treated. I'm going to jump down to verse nine. Whoever covers an offense seeks love, but he who repeats a matter separates close friends. A rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding than a hundred blows into a fool. These two proverbs taken together can help us have wisdom as we learn how to handle it when when we're offended by the behavior of someone else. Right? So good ways to handle when we're offended by the behavior of someone else. We can cover it in love. Overlook it because we love the person, right? Or if it's strong enough that we cannot overlook it, we can rebuke them. We can go to them and say, I don't really appreciate what you said. That really hurt my feelings, or I don't understand why you would say that. It doesn't seem right to me Because either covering the offense out of love or rebuking them directly will bring about good. It'll bring love and understanding, but If you go gossiping, if you go backbiting, then you're just going to cause problems. You're going to cause more harm than good. And if you go to someone and you do rebuke them and they don't listen to you, they blow you off, they minimize your concerns, they don't want to hear what you have to say. then that tells you something about that person. And you might be careful about how you interact with that person in the future. But you still don't go around gossiping and slandering and backbiting because that really doesn't do Any good. And that reminds me of verse 14. The beginning of strife is like letting out water. So quit before the quarrel breaks out. Sometimes you can get to where you're gossiping. slandering, backbiting, because your feelings are hurt. Stop. Stop. Because you're letting out water. And it could cause a flood of calamity in your life and in the lives of those you love. You don't know where that's going to go, and you need to be careful. You need to be careful. Alright, verse 17. A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. If you're really committed to someone as your brother or sister in Christ, then you should be with them through thick and thin. How many times do we have someone in our lives who's going through something hard and because we don't know what to say And we're going to feel awkward being around them, we kind of avoid them. We say, Yeah, I mean I'll pray for you, but I don't want to spend time with you or talk to you. That's not good, right? We need to be there for people in in the hard times. Um we need to be there um with uh with compassion and with empathy to come along alongside someone uh who needs a friend. Uh and and in the hard times is when you most need a friend. And so when we're most tempted to not be there for someone is when they most need us and so when we most need to be there. because we need to measure our response not by how we feel but by what their needs are. Pick up on a little bit more. Twenty four. The discerning sets his face toward wisdom, but the eyes of a fool are on the ends of the earth. What does that mean? Well, a fool is always chasing after rainbows. could say, or they're chasing after wild chasing after rainbows. They think there's a pot of gold at the end. They're they're pursuing wild fantasies. Whereas a discerning person seeks wisdom, seeks, and wisdom is right living. So wisdom says, what am I called to do right now? What is the right thing for me to do right now, even if it's hard? What is the practical matter that's in front of me that God has given me? And not, oh, if I buy a lottery ticket, I'll win millions of dollars or oh if I become a best-selling singer then I'll become a rock star and I can have lots of influence on the culture Like don't go chasing after the ends of the earth. Do the things that God has given you to do, and do so with wisdom. And the last word I want to focus on in Proverbs 17 has to do with restraint. This is a hard one for me, because I'm a talker and I do like to talk, but I need to hear these last two Proverbs, and perhaps you do as well. Whoever restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding. Even a fool who keeps silent is considered wise. When he closes his lips, he is deemed intelligent God gave us two ears to hear and one mouth to talk, and so we should listen twice as much as we talk. You learn when you listen, because you can hear what other people say. What other people know, and you can acquire new information. When you're talking, you're just hearing yourself talk, and there's just a cycle there. And so all of us need to slow down. Be quiet, listen to others, so that we can gain wisdom. You know, Jesus is the embodiment He's the embodiment of the book of Proverbs, which I reflected in my opening prayer. Ultimately, what Proverbs is showing us is the kind of life that would help us to look more like Jesus. The goal of the Christian life is to grow in Christ-likeness. Well, to grow in Christ's likeness means to grow in wisdom and in love. And Proverbs shows us how to grow in wisdom. So when you take a chapter like Proverbs 17, if something hits you, I've just pointed out several Proverbs. But if something hits you with a little bit of an ouch, like it cuts close to home, that's a signal to pray, confess that to the Lord, ask for the Holy Spirit's help, and then seek to walk. In wisdom, because in seeking to walk in wisdom, we are walking with Jesus, who is the wise one. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your son Jesus, the wise counselor. the perfect example, the one who lived a life of wisdom and love without fault and without variation. We are full of fault and variation. We need your grace to help us walk more consistently. Give us wisdom and give us grace to walk in wisdom. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Proverbs 17. Tomorrow we're going to go back to 2 Chronicles, picking up with chapter 34. Hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.