Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill President It's day six hundred and seventy-seven of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we're here in Proverbs chapter 18. I think yesterday I told you we were going to be back in Isaiah. Sorry about that. Uh Proverbs. Every once in a while we dip in for a chapter of Proverbs, taking 31 chapters of Proverbs and spreading them out over three years, so we we come to them every once in a while. So here we are in Proverbs chapter 18. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we seek him for wisdom today. Heavenly Father, you are wisdom. The source of all true wisdom is you. So we pray, Father, that you would give us your wisdom. That comes from your very heart and mind through your word. May it be applied to our heart and mind and into our lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. All right, Proverbs chapter 18. Whoever isolates himself seeks his own desire. He breaks out against all sound judgment. A fool takes no pleasure in understanding, but only in expressing his opinion. When wickedness comes, contempt comes also, and with dishonor comes disgrace. Grace. The words of a man's mouth are deep waters. The fountain of wisdom is a bubbling brook. It is not good to be partial to the wicked. Or to deprive the righteous of justice. A fool's lips walk into a fight, and his mouth invites a beating. A fool's mouth is his ruin. And his lips are a snare to his soul. The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels. They go down into the inner parts of the body Whoever is slack in his work is a brother to him who destroys. The name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous man runs into A rich man's wealth is his strong city, and like a high wall in his imagination. Before destruction, a man's heart is haughty, but humility comes before honor. If one gives an answer before one hears, it is his folly and shame A man's spirit will endure sickness, but a crushed spirit, who can bear? An intelligent heart acquires knowledge. Knowledge, and the ear of the wise seeks knowledge. A man's gift makes room for him and brings him before the great. The one who states his case first seems right until the other comes and examines him. The lot puts an end to quarrels and decides between powerful contenders. A brother offended is more unyielding than a strong city, and quarrelling is like the bars of a castle From the fruit of a man's mouth, his stomach is satisfied. He is satisfied by the yield of his lips. Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love it will eat its fruits. He who finds a life finds a good thing and obtains favor from the Lord. The poor uses entreaties, but the rich answer roughly A man of many companions may come to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. That very last line I I quoted on Sunday in the sermon that I preached when I talked about ten ways that Jesus has changed my life. And I said, I always have somebody that I can talk to at any time. Time because there's a friend who sticks closer than a brother. That's it, Proverbs 18, 24, talking about the friend we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. Who, of course, is the fulfillment of all wisdom. Much of Proverbs 18, of course, these are collections of Proverbs, so they talk about lots of different things, but there seems to be a focus here on the mouth. and on how we speak, as well as like the companionship and and and the teachability of our heart. So so a wise person, according to Proverbs, is someone Someone who who gathers around him other wise people who can speak truth into his life and and who wants to understand And who will listen before he speaks, and who will be careful what he says, because he knows he'll have to live with it. So this idea of wise companionship and seeking understanding and being restrained in what you say is all woven throughout here in Proverbs eighteen. So it begins by the opposite of having uh uh wise people around you and that is whoever isolates himself. Especially in this day and age. I'll just say the more we are isolated from actual human relationship people who know us, who love us, who can speak truth into our lives, the more we get sucked into the internet world, the alternate reality of social media and TikTok and Instagram and blah blah blah, which is fake and deceitful. So we get sucked in. If this was true, you know in in the day of Solomon almost three thousand years ago, it's even more true today that if you isolate yourself to where it's just you and your phone screen Scrolling through social media, you are going to break out against all sound judgment. You're going to seek only your own desire because this thing is telling you what you want to hear. There's algorithms. That's programmed literally to tell you what you want to hear and to make you angry at people who disagree with you. That's what that's how they make their money. It's literally how they make their money. by telling you what you want to hear and getting you angry at people who disagree with you. And so you're going to seek your own desire and you're going to break out against all sound judgment, because rather than being charitable to your neighbor and listening to them them and trying to hear from their perspective, and rather in trying to take pleasure in understanding, you're going to take no pleasure in understanding, but only in expressing your own opinion. Boy. I never realized how much Proverbs 18, 1 and 2 is like written for our social media age, but it really is. It's something to take to heart. When wickedness comes, contempt comes also. With dishonor comes disgrace. How many people have hurt themselves and those around them, those they love by falling into a trap of wickedness? That also awaits you. The words of a man's mouth this So we've got the words of a man mouth are deep waters, fountain of wisdom, a bubbling brook. You can you can speak life. God, you have the power to speak life. And yet it's also true what verses six and seven say a fool's lips walk into a fight, his mouth invites a beating, a fool's mouth is his ruin, his lips are a snare to his soul and verse 8 the words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels that go down the inner parts of the body. You can be a fool who's like walking into a fight. You can be a fool who's snaring yourself with your words or you can be a gossip. That's what a whisperer is in verse eight, a gossip. Spreading juicy bits of gossip that seem good and they go down inside, but they are poisonous. Poison Poison us. Instead, we ought to be working hard. Minding our own business. Being faithful of what God calls us to do. Right? Don't be poking your nose around every other everybody else's business to God. Do what God calls you to do. Whoever slacken his work is a brother to him who destroys. All of us have work that God's given us to do. Let's be diligent and faithful with it. And let's go to the Lord as a strong tower. Somebody gossiping about you, rather than getting back and gossiping about them, go and hide yourself in the name of the Lord, which is a strong tower. Run into Him and be safe He is a much better protection than a rich man's wealth. See, a rich man's wealth is his strong city. like a high wall in his imagination. That's contrasted. Verse 11 is being contrasted to the real refuge of verse 10, which is the name of the Lord, how God has revealed himself, who God is, his character. Arrogance, haughtiness, well that brings with it destruction. Humility brings with it honor. Again, back to the lips and the tongue in verse 13. Don't answer before you hear. So many people when when they're engaged in conversation, they're not really listening to the other person. They're just trying to think up their answer. And if you're going to think up your answer and get your answer before you even heard the other person out, that's foolishness. That's shameful. You need to listen to try to understand. Seek first to understand rather than to be understood. Man's spirit will endure sickness, but a crushed spirit who can bear? Maybe you've been in that place where you've been gossiped about or lied about or someone Betrayed you and you're just crushed in spirit, that's when you really need to go to the Lord, because the Lord alone can uncrus our spirits. Amen. Intelligent heart acquires knowledge, the ear of the wise seeks knowledge. We should be listening, you see. Run in your mouth all the time. You're not listening. We need to be be listening, to hear, to understand. And part of what we need to hear and understand is that the first person who comes to us and presents Their case isn't necessarily correct. We need to hear the other side of it. You need to always hear the other side of the story. There always is another side to the story. And so if you're really seeking to understand, you need to listen and then you need to listen and you need to weigh prayerfully both sides. Jumping down to the end, we come back to the the tongue again in verses twenty and twenty-one. The fruit of a man's mouth, but from the fruit of a man's mouth, his stomach is satisfied, satisfied by the yield of his lips. Death and life are in the power of the tongue of those who love it. It will eat its fruits. You're gonna have to eat your words, right? That actually comes from Proverbs. You're gonna have to eat your words. Be careful what you say, because you might have to eat it later. Uh So if you talk about someone behind their back, they're probably going to hear about it and find out about it. You accuse someone else of doing something that you yourself are doing wrong, they're going to have to eat that. So be very careful. I mean Proverbs is telling us over and over again, just Spite your tongue. Just don't speak until you know for sure that what you have to say is wisdom, truth, spoken. And remember, when your spirit's crushed, when you're lonely, there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. And he has all the wisdom that we need. The name of the Lord is a strong tower. We can run into him, listen to him in his word, get wisdom, get encouragement, get refreshment. And then go out and speak truth in love with humility and patience, seeking to understand and to be a blessing. not to advance our own name. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, is the embodiment of wisdom. When he spoke it was always true, and it was always spoken in love. He spoke To be a blessing to those around him. He knew the truth. He saw what was in a man's heart. Help us to go to you for wisdom. Help us to be grounded in your word for discernment. Help us to walk in your ways as your children. Thank you that you stick with us closer than a brother. We need you You. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Proverbs 18. Now we are going to go back to Isaiah tomorrow, Lord willing. Hope you can join me for that. And again, I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.