Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bamble from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day five hundred and eighty of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we have got A challenge before us. So buckle up. We have three Psalms this morning, Psalms 86, 87, and 88. And these are not for the most part like simple and quick Psalms either. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help because we're going to need it. There's such rich things for us to see in these Psalms. Let's pray for the Lord's help in in drawing closer to Christ through these Psalms this morning. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your faithfulness, for your love, for your unfailing steadfastness. Fast love. Your character, your unchanging character, who you are, who you've covenanted to be as our God is our hope, our anchor. In everything in life. We pray that you be with us, that you would hold us through this study, and that you would be our teacher and our guide And use these Psalms, Father, to prepare us to cling to Christ and to rejoice in Christ and in our identity in Christ through all the seasons of life. We pray this in Jesus' name. All right, Psalm eighty-six first. Incline your ear, O Lord, and answer me, for I am poor and needy. Preserve my life, for I am godly. Save your servant who trusts in you. You are my God. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for to you do I cry all the day. Gladden the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. For you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you. Give ear, O Lord, to To my prayer, listen to my plea for grace. In the day of my trouble, I call upon you, for you answer me There is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like yours. All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord. and shall glorify your name. For you are great and do wondrous things. You alone are God. Teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth. Unite my heart to fear your name. I give thanks to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify your name forever For great is your steadfast love toward me. You have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. O God, insolent men have risen up against me A band of ruthless men seeks my life, and they do not set you before them. But you, O Lord, are a God, merciful and gracious. slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Turn to me And be gracious to me. Give strength to your servant and save the son of your maidservant. Show me a sign of your favor, that those who hate me may see and be put to shame, because you, Lord, have That's Psalm eighty-six. Wonderful Psalm, a prayer of David, and this really is another good example of in the Psalms of why David was known after as a man after God's own heart. David is crying out to the Lord. He's in distress. There there's a band of insolent men, ruthless men. Who seek his life. This could have been when he was fleeing from King Saul. It could have been when he was fleeing from Absalom and his co-conspirators in the insurrection. We don't know, but we know that he's in trouble. And we know that David also understands very well from this psalm who he is. and who God is. He asks God first of all to hear and to answer. You know, always in our prayers The first thing we need to know is that God hears us and that He's going to answer us. We have to know that we're not just talking to ourselves, that that our our voice is isn't just echoing on the walls of our room, but God is actually hearing us and will answer us according to his character. And so David asks God to do that, to listen and to answer And the reason why he needs God to listen to the answer is because he's poor and needy. He has no resources that he can call upon. Now David was a man of war. David was skilled in cutting and battle. David had Mighty men who surrounded him, but still he knew that he was poor and needy, and that he needed the Lord. And that is that he's a godly man. He's a God fearer. He's someone who loves the Lord, who belongs to the Lord. So he says, Preserve my life, for I am godly, Savior servant, who trusts in you. You are my God. So we come to God because we need him, and we come to God because we belong to him. So we come to God saying, Lord, I don't have any resources here. I am poor and needy, and I'm yours. You're my God, I trust in you. I'm looking to you. So that's why he needs to be heard. Now what does he ask for from the Lord? He says, be gracious to me. And then he says, gladden the soul of your servant. He wants God to give him grace, undeserved favor and kindness. He wants God to be good to him and to relieve the suffering of his soul. And then in verse five, we get the first of two times in this psalm where David explicitly appeals to the self-revealed character of God. In verse 5, it's it's a hint at it, and then later it's a full uh Statement of it. So look at these. Verse 5. For you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love to all who call on you. This is an echo of Psalm 34, I'm sorry, Exodus 34, 6, where God declares his name before For Moses, the Lord, the Lord, merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, forgiving those who call upon him And so this is the echo of this in verse five, but then look in verse fifteen, and we'll see that he comes back to this very much more explicitly. Here in contrast to the ruthless men who seek his life, who do not set God before them, he says, But you, O Lord, are a God. So when David comes before God, he not only acknowledges his need. And he not only acknowledges that he belongs to God, but he's really appealing to God on the basis of who God has said he is to his people. And that is a God who is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. And he confesses other things that are true about God, that there is none like you among the gods. O Lord, nor there are any works like yours. that all nations whom God has made will come and worship before him and glorify his name, for he is great and he does wonderful wondrous things, he alone is God. So he's he's appealing to God on the basis of God. We can't other than our need, notice what he says about himself, just our need, right? But he appeals to God on the basis. of God, who God is. And not only does he want God to answer him and to be gracious to him and to gladden his soul, but he also wants God to teach him. Teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth. Unite my heart to fear your name See, what's more important whenever we're in distress, what's more important than getting out of the distress, what's more important than us being comforted or confident or feeling better about the situation. What's more important is that we come to know the Lord more closely. to depend upon him more deeply, to walk in closer fellowship with him. So teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth. Unite my heart to fear your name. He is aware of the great steadfast love of the Lord, the Hasid of the Lord toward him. That phrase is repeated several times in this psalm. And really he gets to the petition again in verses sixteen and seventeen. Turn to me and be gracious to me. Give your strength to your servant. Save the son of your maidservant. Show me a sign of your favor that those who hate me may see and be put to shame, because you, Lord, have helped me So he does ask for salvation, for rescue, for grace that's undeserved favor and kindness. But he wants this on the basis of who God is, and he wants through all of this to come to know God better and better. All right, Psalm 87 This is a psalm of the sons of Korah. It's a song. That means it's meant to be sung by a group of people And and probably it's a fairly short psalm, and so often when something is a song, there's a lot of repeating uh of lines when it's actually sung. out uh by the people of God. So it's a song about the greatness of Zion, about the people of God. This is the psalm that by the way that is is the basis for one of my favorite hymns that we sang this past Sunday in worship, Glorious Things of Thee are spoken, Zion, City of Our God. You can see it right there in verse 3 A wonderful John Newton hymn. Alright, a psalm of the sons of Korah, a song. On the Holy Mount stands the city he founded. The Lord loves the gates of Zion. More than all the dwelling places of Jacob, glorious things of you are spoken, O city of God, Selah. Among those who know me, I mention Rahab and Babylon Behold Philistia and Tyre, with Cush, this one was born there, they say. And of Zion it shall be said, this one and that one were born in her. For the Most High Himself will establish her. The Lord records as he registers the peoples. This one was born there, Selah. Singers and dancers alike say, All my springs are equal. in you. It's short, seven verses. Again, probably, given how quickly you can read through that, probably lines were repeated or maybe the whole thing was repeated. In a musical arrangement. Sons of Korah are uh Levites who lead music in the worship of God's people Uh it is significant that they are identified as the sons of Korah because Korah was the guy who led a rebellion during the Exodus and the earth swallowed him up. Remember, because he didn't lead a rebellion. He he took the things that were devoted to God and he kept them for himself. And uh wait, I'm getting my stories mixed up. Sorry. Uh yeah. So he he was a guy who was punished by God with the earth, swallowed him up whole during the Exodus, and but not all of his family was destroyed. So his children continued on. And here this is many generations later. The sons of Korah were established under David, which would be some 500 years. later after their their forefather, their ancestor Korah was swallowed up by the earth and um they they now lead God's people. and praise. And they're praising God for his his city, his holy city. Zion, Jerusalem, the city of God, which is the people of God. So Jerusalem or Zion in the Old Testament has been expanded to the city of God. And so the city of God is founded by God. It is loved by God. It is blessed by God. It has glorious things spoken of it. The residents Of God's holy city are those who are adopted as children of God, who have citizenship in his heavenly kingdom, those who are in Christ, those who are born again into the kingdom. And what's interesting is in the heart of this psalm, what it says is that the enemies of God, Rahab stands for Egypt and Babylon, those are the two great powers in the world. uh you know throughout much of of Israel's history. Rahab which is Egypt to the south, Babylon, which is to the northeast. And then Philistia and Tyre, those are the coastland cities, and and Cush, the Cushites were this far off, distant, fierce warrior people. powerful and and oftentimes enemies of God's people, five of them that really surround Israel, both close by and far away. And what is being said of them is That they will know Zion, and in fact there will be people born in Zion who are from these far-off nations and tribes. Enemies of God's people, they will be brought in. They'll be brought in to God's people. This is a prophecy. that when the Lord Jesus Christ comes to Zion, to Jerusalem, he will send out his apostles and and Zion, Jerusalem, will be expanded to be a city that permeates throughout all the cities of the world. And the enemies of God's people will become God's people as the gospel is proclaimed and as they come to know the Lord of Zion, the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. And so we rejoice and worship. Singers and dancers, we rejoice and worship and we say, All my springs are in you. That means all my joy, all my hope, all my strength, all my confidence, all my refreshment is found in God. And in God's people. If we love the Lord, we should love being among His people. We should love being in worship with His people. We should love drinking from the s the springs of living water. that God pours out in the worship of his people gathered together. So Psalm 87 is a great reminder to us that who we are and what we treasure should be anchored in God and in his people. Alright, Psalm eighty-eight. There's another Psalm of the Sons of Korah, and it is another song, but it's a sad song. Uh sad songs uh say so much, right? Is there the old Elton John song? Uh and this is a very, very sad song. Um and it is written to the choirmaster according to Mahaleth Lienath, which probably means that's the tune it was set to. Uh so it's written to the choir master, which means it's meant to be sung by everybody. And then it's uh specifically identified as a mascule of Heman the Ezrahite. So Heman the Ezrahite is a man who who wrote this as a teaching song. That's what a mascule is a teaching So out of the suffering and the agony of Heman the Ezrahite comes a great lesson, a great teaching for God's people. on how we lament faithfully. This psalm is also associated with Christ and when Christ went down in So there's language of him going down among the pit and being down among the grave and among the dead, and so the Psalms being the prayer book of Christ and pointing us This is not only a lament for us to sing and pray from our hearts when we feel like we are in just the absolute depth of despair. But even more importantly than that We can sing this because this tells us of Christ when he was thrown into the pit, uh the dungeon pit the night when he was Arrested and awaiting trial. Uh when we were in Jerusalem a couple of months ago, we had an opportunity to go down into the pit below the house of Caiaphas the high priest, and that pit that Jesus would have been kept in And so it reminds us that Jesus went to the darkest, deepest places for us and for our salvation. Salvation, which means when we are in deep and dark places, we can we can connect to him because we are in him and he is in us and he can be with us even in those deep dark times. So let's read now Psalm eighty eight. O Lord, God of my salvation, I cry out day and night before you. Let my prayer come before you, incline your ear to my cry, for my soul is full of troubles. And my life draws near to Sheol. I am counted among those who go down to the pit. I am a man who has no strength, like one set loose among the dead. Like the slain that lie in the grave, like those whom you remember no more, for they are cut off from your hand. You have put me in the depths of the pit. In the regions dark and deep, your wrath lies heavy upon me, and you overwhelm me with all your waves, Selah. You have caused my companions to sh Shun me. You have made me a horror to them. I am shut in so that I cannot escape. My eye grows dim through sorrow. Every day I call upon you, O Lord. I spread out my hands to you. Do you work wonders for the dead? Do the departed rise up to praise you, Selah? Is your steadfast love declared in the grave, or your faithfulness in a back Are your wonders known in the darkness, or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? But I, O Lord, cry to you. In the morning my prayer comes before you. O Lord, why do you cast my soul away? Why do you hide your face from me? Afflicted and close to death from my youth up, I suffer your terrors. I am helpless. Your wrath has swept over me. Your dreadful assaults destroy me. They surround me like Like a flood all day long. They close in on me together. You have caused my beloved and my friend to shun me. My companions have become. darkness. And that's the end of Psalm eighty eight. There's no there's no happy ending to that Psalm in and of itself. Now one of the things we need to know is that God puts the Psalms together in the order which they are. And so Psalm eighty nine that we'll look at the next time we're in the Psalms, some time from now, is actually the the the answer, the comparison But this is a an affirmation that there are times when we are absolutely In the pit of despair. The the bright spot in this whole psalm comes just in the first line, O Lord, God of my salvation. And I've told you this before, but salvation in Hebrew is Yeshua, which is the same as the name of Jesus. So uh O Yahweh, God of my salvation of my Jesus. This is Jesus' song in the pit, in the grave, in In the depths of despair, I think you can you can start hearing this song echoing the agony in the garden. Um my soul is full of trouble, my life draws near to Sheol. This is similar to what Jesus said. uh in the night that when he agonized in the garden, uh and then going down to the pit of prison and then being mocked and beaten and put on trial and then and then and hung on the cross and to bear the wrath of God in our place. This is this is Jesus being cut off. He was cut off from the hand of God for us and for our salvation. salvation. He was abandoned. He was utterly alone when he was sinned for us on the cross. And so in our feelings of abandonment, he understands we have a we have a merciful and faithful High priest, as we've been learning in Hebrews, he is able to sympathize with our weaknesses. He understands what it is to feel hopeless, to feel even cursed by God. And so Psalm 88 is given to us so that we can know this heart of God in our suffering. And the best thing we can do in those times is turn Turn to the Lord. Even if we don't feel like we're getting an answer, because there's no obvious answer in Psalm 88, but to remember that the Lord is in fact the God of the So here we have three Psalms, 86, 87, and 88. 87 is a happy one in the middle, but 86 is how we cry out to God. God with with confident expectation of being heard when we are in affliction, in trouble, and feeling persecuted, feeling attacked. And Psalm 88, when we cry out to God, even in the deepest, darkest despair. And in in both of these darker Psalms, eighty-six and eighty-eight, as well as in the happier Psalm eighty-seven, our anchor for meaning, our source of joy, our hope, our strength Our confidence is in who God is and who God is to us. That He is the Lord, God, merciful, gracious, compassionate. Steadfast love, abundant and steadfast love and faithfulness, and that He's the God of our salvation. And that He's the one who is a Established Zion, and who's enrolled our names in that holy city, and who is the source of all of our springs of joy and hope. Let's pray to him now Oh Father, we thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the fulfillment of the Psalms and who is our salvation. From beginning to end. At our best times when we are overwhelmed with joy and gratitude, it is Christ that we have to thank, because all of our springs of joy are found in him. And when we are under attack and we feel threatened, and the enemy is hounding us, it is to Christ that we call, for He is our Saviour and our Deliverer, who has overcome since And when we are in a pit of despair and feeling helpless and hopeless and cut off and abandoned, it is Christ who is our companion. Companion in the darkness, and who has gone to the deepest depths for us and for our salvation. So hear us in every season of our lives as we cry out to you through faith in Jesus Christ. And deliver us by your goodness and for your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's Psalms 86, 87, and 88. I hope that was meaningful and helpful to you. As always, I know it was kind of long, but we had a lot to cover. Tomorrow we'll be back in 2 Chronicles. Have a blessing. Stay in the Lord.