Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. My name is Jason Van Bemmel. I am the pastor of Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. You probably know that already, but if you don't, welcome This is our day by day, chapter by chapter, journey through the entire Word of God, and this is day 701, and it brings us to Psalm 104. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It is a rich treasure to us. You speak to us in so many different ways in your word. And we thank you for it, for each and every one of them. We thank you for Psalm 104 that's before us this morning. We pray that you would speak to us and write your word on our hearts. We pray that you would move us to understand Psalm 104. to believe Psalm 104, to receive it into our hearts, and to respond to you in faith and obedience. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 104. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, you are very great. You are clothed with splendor and majesty, covering yourself with light as with a garment. Stretching out the heavens like a tent. He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters. He makes the clouds his chariot. He rides on the wings of the wind. He makes his messengers winds His minister is a flaming fire. He set the earth on its foundation so that it should never be moved. You covered it with the deep as with a garment. The waters stood above the mountains. At your rebuke they fled. At the sound of your thunder they took to flight. The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place that you appointed for them You set a boundary that they may not pass, so that they might not again cover the earth. You make springs gush forth in the valleys They flow between the hills. They give drink to every beast of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirst. Beside them the birds of the heavens dwell. They sing among the branches, From your lofty abode you water the mountains. The earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work. You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth. and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, and bread to strengthen man's heart The trees of the Lord are watered abundantly, the cedars of Lebanon that He planted, in them the birds build their nests The stork has her home in the fir trees. The high mountains are for the wild goats. The rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers. He made the moon to mark the seasons. The sun knows its time for setting. You make darkness, and it is night When all the beasts of the forest creep about, the young lions roar for prey, seeking their food from God. When the sun rises, they steal away and lie down in their dens. Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening. O Lord, how manifold are your works! In wisdom you have made them all. The earth is full of your creatures Here is the sea, great and wide, which teems with creatures innumerable, living things, both small and great. There go the ships and Leviathan which you formed to play in it These all look to you, to give them their food in due season. When you give it to them, they gather it up. When you open your hand, they are filled with good things. When you hide your face, they are dismayed. When you take away their breath, they die and return to the dust. When you send forth your spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground. May the glory of the Lord endure forever. May the Lord rejoice in his works, who looks on the earth and it trembles, who touches the mountains and they smoke. I will sing to the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the Lord. Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless the Lord, O my soul, praise the Lord Psalm 104 is really a pair with Psalm 103, which we looked at the last time we were in the Psalms. They both are a call to ourselves to praise God, having this opening and closing of bless the Lord, O my soul. Psalm 103 focuses on praising the Lord for his gospel goodness to us, that he does not treat us as our sins deserve, that he has separated our sins as far as the east is from the west. that he is good to his children and that he is just and merciful and all the benefits of the gospel who heals our diseases and all of those things. It's very personal. And it's very gospel-oriented. Psalm 104 lifts up our eyes to look around at God's creation and see how the God who has been so gracious to us, the God who has been so merciful to us is the God who created and who sustains and who provides for the entirety of creation. So we can see that Psalm 103 is God's gospel goodness to us personally, whereas Psalm 104 is the greatness of God's providential care and goodness to all of creation. When we study the world, I love science. I love studying science. in in a right way, not science as an excuse to try to figure out how a world could exist without God. That's not science. That's just atheistic philosophy dressing itself up as science. What I mean by science is actually looking around and studying God's world. Whether you're studying the water cycle and figuring out how evaporation into the clouds and condensation into rain that waters the earth and that brings forth life, or how photosynthesis through chlorophyll and sunlight allows allows food to be created in the form of plant substance that that nourishes the whole earth or whether it's the migratory patterns of animals of hummingbirds who come from around here in the mid-Atlantic area and end up in South America and they're like this big and they just how do they migrate for thousands of miles over open ocean? and or monarch butterflies who who all go to a a a particular place in Mexico and this grove of trees high in the hills in Mexico and then they spread out. throughout North America. They only eat milkweed. And I it's just like there's so much from the massive blue whale that that frolics in the ocean. to the tiniest little you know eyeless fish that live in deep in caves and they're blind because there's no light in there but they're still there and they're still eating. The world is full of amazing and astounding things, and all of it testifies to the creative power and to the sustaining providential goodness of God. All of it, it reveals the handiwork of its creator. And so Psalm 104 is frankly a very stirring and simple and profound call to us to get outside. Look around at creation, praise the Lord, and then study creation and learn about it and praise the Lord. Everything. in the world exists because brought God brought it into being, and every creature in the world is provided for because God provides for it. Now, we can bless the Lord for this, because the God who is good to us personally in Psalm 103 is of such power. and in such command and control of all of creation that we will not be wanting We who are the objects of his particular gospel affection. We who are the objects of his saving grace. will be provided for. After all, if he provides homes for rock badgers and if he provides uh places for storks, you know, to nest in the fir trees and for wild goats. And if he provides for lions who go hunting at night, he will surely provide for us. Remember what Jesus said, consider the lilies of the field. Solomon in all his splendor was not clothed as one of these, and yet God loves you more than the flowers. Consider the birds of the heavens. They neither sow nor weep, nor store up in barns, and yet your father feeds them. How much more are you worth than many birds? God cares for you. So you don't need to be anxious. You don't need to be worried. That doesn't help you any. You need to trust God. And you need to delight in God. And the more you study creation and the more you understand the intricacy of God's design and the goodness of God's providence, the more you will rest. And rejoice in the Lord. Amen. Let's pray. Father, you are so good. Your goodness is seen in all your works all around us Without fail. There is no one like you, creator and sustainer of all, without rival, without equal. You are great, and you are good. You're good to all of your creation. You have a home for everything, a place for it, provision for it, and you are certainly caring for us. You care for us personally. You number the very hairs on our head. You know our name. You know our thoughts even before we think them. You love us. And you care for us. Help us to rest and rejoice in you and to be confident and comforted. by your providential goodness in the world and in our lives. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's Psalm 104. Thanks for joining me for that. Tomorrow we're back to the book of Isaiah. We're going to be picking up the next couple of days with chapters 23 and 24. I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.