Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you are With us today as we continue our studies in God's Word, and we are on our 1044th day today, and we are back in the Psalms. Psalms 146 and 147. That means we're getting pretty close. I mean, it is kind of, you know, November. of our last year together in God's Word doing this. So let's pray and let's ask the Lord's help as we look at two wonderful psalms together today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for being so faithful to us, for blessing us and leading us and guiding us, speaking to us in so many ways. In your word, you've challenged us, you've comforted us. You've called us. You've given us a new vision of yourself, and you've deepened our faith in you. This is all the work of your spirit working through your word. So please do that work today. As we look at Psalms 146 and 147, may your Holy Spirit write them on our hearts that our souls might love Jesus more. In His name we pray. Amen. Psalm 146. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. I will praise the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man in whom there is no salvation. When his breath departs, he returns to the earth. On that very day his plans perish. Blessed Is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God, who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, who keeps faith forever, who executes justice for the oppressed, who gives food to the hungry. The Lord sets the prisoners free. The Lord opens the eyes of the blind. The Lord lifts up those who are bowed down. The Lord Loves the righteous. The Lord watches over the sojourners, he upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin The Lord will reign forever. Your God, O Zion, to all generations praise the Lord. Psalm 146. Oh, we serve such a great God, such a great and gracious God. We've just recently had an election. here in America. And uh some people are thrilled with the outcome of that election, some people are despairing. with the outcome of that election. I don't really think that either one of those responses is necessarily appropriate. Uh don't be too thrilled. Don't put your trust in princes and the Son of Man in whom there is no salvation. Don't be too despairing. Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God. I mean seriously, I don't mean to be dismissive of real-life political concerns because they are real. Elections do have consequences. People have consciences and convictions. They have expectations and they have fears, and all of these things are valid, and I don't want to invalidate any of them, but Psalm 146 is calling us to lift up our eyes and seek and look to and try to In the days in which Psalm 46 was given to the people of God, the political realities that God's people had to deal with were the competing great kingdoms of the earth. Egypt to the south, Assyria to the north, later Babylon to the northeast, later Persia, later the Greeks, later the Romans. You know, they had to deal with we're just a small nation trying to honor the Lord and there's these big scary nations that they outnumber us and they have way larger armies than we do. Maybe we need to have horses and chariots. Maybe we need to have, you know, in in the very first time when Israel asked for a king in 1 Samuel 8 when they demanded that Saul be king or that God give them a king. They said, We need a king to go out and fight our battles for us. Now God had raised up judges in the past to deliver them from oppressive enemies. The only reason why they ever came into the oppression of enemies was because of their unfaithfulness to the Lord. But we're tempted, we're always tempted to treat immediate physical Realities as the more real. And we're always tempted to treat God and His kingdom as the less real, and the Bible calls us to the exact opposite. Paul says, our outer man is wasting away, but our inner man is being renewed day by day as we look not to the things that are transient, but to the things that are eternal. For what is seen is passing away, but what is unseen is eternal. We are called to see that which is unseen by faith, walk by faith and not by sight. Our King is on his throne. He keeps faith forever. He executes justice for the oppressed. He gives food to the hungry. He sets the prisoners free. He opens the eyes of the blind. He lifts up those who are bowed down. He loves the righteous and watches over the sojourners and upholds the widow and the fatherless, and the way of the wicked he brings to ruin. He will reign forever. These are truths. that are more true than the election or the headlines or the political prognosticators or the talking heads on the cable news programs or the social media memes that get posted so readily. God is God. He is our God to all generations. He has never failed to be faithful. He has never failed to keep his own. What should we be doing? We should be trusting him First, and then we should be looking to be used by him to do his will. So we should want to see justice and feeding the hungry and helping the weak and the sojourner and the widowless and the fatherless and to see justice to the wicked. But but we realize that We can be used by God as part of how he does those things in this world, but ultimately and eternally and perfectly, those things will not happen in that final sense until Jesus comes again. So we can also pray, come quickly Lord Jesus, Maranatha, come quickly, Lord Jesus. So trust the Lord, look to Him, worship Him. look to be used by him to join him in the work that he is doing in the world to establish justice, to care for the poor, to uh Restrain evil, to seek human flourishing, but also wait for the Lord Jesus for these things to be perfectly brought about when he reigns openly. Psalm 147. Praise the Lord, for it is good to save Praises to our God, for it is pleasant, and a song of praise is fitting. The Lord builds up Jerusalem, He gathers the outcasts of Israel. Israel. His understanding is Beyond measure. The Lord lifts up the humble, he casts the wicked to the ground. Sing to the Lord with thanksgiving. Make melody to our God on the lyre. He covers the heavens with clouds, he prepares rain for the earth, he makes grass grow on the hills, he gives to the beasts their food, and to the young ravens that cry, His delight is not in the strength of a horse, nor his pleasure in the legs of a man, but the Lord takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his steadfast love. Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem. Praise your God, O Zion, for He strengthens the bars of your gates, He blesses your children within you, He makes peace in your borders, He fills you with the finest of the wheat. He sends out his command to the earth, his word runs swiftly. He gives snow like wool, he scatters frost like ashes, he hurls down His crystals of ice like crumbs, who can stand before his cold? He sends out his word and melts them. He makes his winds blow and the waters flow He declares his word to Jacob, his statutes and rules to Israel. He has not dealt thus with any other nation. They do not know his rules. Praise the Lord. Psalm 147 continues to develop many of the same themes as Psalm 146, and it is, again, in the context of these exuberant praise. These final psalms all begin and end with praise the Lord. Hallelujah. So the context is how we praise God. And how we praise God is not just in song. It's not just in the things that we say when we're gathered together for church on Sunday morning. How we praise God is also in how we live. Trusting, obeying, seeking to glorify, valuing what God values, believing his word and his promises. God is the one doing this work. He builds up Jerusalem. He gathers the outcast. Yes, it's good to sing praises to God. That's the very first thing we're called to do. A song of praise is fitting because of who God is. But is a real sense in which if we sing God's praises on Sunday morning, but then we wring our hands in anxiety and fear or we act in anger and self-defense or we need to take things into our own hands Monday through Saturday, that nullifies the validity of the praises that we're singing on Sunday morning. Because we're showing Monday through Saturday that we don't really believe what we sing on Sunday morning. But with joy we can rejoice that God does indeed build up Jerusalem. That is his church, his people. He gathers the outcasts, he heals the brokenhearted, he binds up their wounds. He does He's abundant in power. His understanding is beyond measure. You don't need to tell God anything he's not already aware of. You don't need to help God out in accomplishing his will. I think those are two telltale signs that we're in a wrong-headed direction. If we think we have to tell God something that He's not already aware of, Or we think we have to help God out to accomplish something that seems beyond his ability to do. No. He's abundant in power, his understanding is beyond measure. So we sing. We praise. He doesn't take delight in the strengths of a horse or the legs of a man. So we come to God. We don't say, look, God, I'll help you out with this. I've got a lot of money I can give. I've got a lot of resources I can use. I'll help you out with this. No. In 146, I said, we can be used by God to do the work that He is doing. So important. To get that right, we can be used by God to do the work that He is doing It's a different approach than I can help God out to do the things that he wouldn't be able to do without my help. It's completely different. Very few Christians would say it in those words, but we think it sometimes in our hearts. Trust him. Trust him. He strengthens us. He builds us up. He commands. One example is this, he commands all the natural phenomenon of the world, all the weather pattern. If he can do that, surely he'll keep his word to us. These last couple verses we need to realize that when it says he declares his word to Jacob, his statutes and rules to Israel, he's not dealt thus with other nations. That's the church he's talking about is the fulfillment of this. We are Jacob. We are Israel. We are Jerusalem. We've been grafted in to that olive tree that received the promise in the Abrahamic covenant. Look at Romans 9, Galatians. I've made this point several times before. We are the people of God. And God deals with us in a way so that when we read the Bible, we say, this is the Word of God. This is His Word to me. I believe it. It is the Word of God to everybody. But people who don't have eyes to see or ears to hear, faith to believe, their hearts are stone. He hasn't really given his word to them the way he's given his word to us, by changing our hearts and opening our eyes and ears and helping us understand and receive and respond. Praise the Lord for that. Praise the Lord for that and trust him. Walk by faith, not by sight and not in fear. That's God Word to us today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good and great, awesome in power, unfailing in wisdom, inexhaustible in resources. and perfect in love for your own, for your own glory and for your own people. Help us to trust you, not to live in fear Not to seek to take control and put things in our own hands, as though somehow we could do something without you. We love you. We thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well that is Psalms 146 and 147. Tomorrow we're going to go back to the book of Amos and pick up with Amos chapter 5. I hope you can join me for that, and I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.