Good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Toba Presbyterian Church. It's day 639 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we're coming now to Psalm 94 as we jump back over to the Psalms. And we are, you know, we're approaching at the end of this year, we'll be two-thirds of the way through this Bible reading plan. So we're kind of approaching two-thirds of the way through the Psalms, 150 Psalms, and this is Psalm Psalm ninety four. This is one of the psalms that was preached this past summer. In fact, uh Mike preached this psalm. And so um if you want a fuller treatment of it, you can look up his sermon from our summer series in the Psalms. But let's pray and then we'll dig into Psalm 94 Father in heaven, you are so good, and your goodness involves justice, holy justice, and wrath that is right. that is part of your righteous character and something we need to thank you for and understand the necessity of and the goodness of. So we pray that you would help us through Psalm 94 this morning. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Psalm 94. Oh God of vengeance, O Lord, God of vengeance. Let me try that again. Psalm 94. O Lord, God of vengeance, O God of vengeance, shine forth. Rise up, O Judge of the earth, repay to the proud what they deserve. O Lord, how long shall the wicked How long shall the wicked exult? They pour out their arrogant words. All the evildoers boast. They crush your people, O Lord, and afflict your heritage They kill the widow and the sojourner and murder the fatherless. They say the Lord does not see, the God of Jacob does not perceive, understand. O dullest of the people, fools, when will you be wise? He who planted the ear, does he not hear? He who formed the eye, does he not see? He who disciplines the nations, does he not rebuke? He who teaches man knowledge, the Lord, knows the thoughts of man that they are but a breath. Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O Lord, and whom you teach out of your law to give him rest from days of trouble, until a pit is dug for the wicked. For the Lord will not forsake his people. He will not abandon his heritage For justice will return to the righteous, and all the upright in heart will follow it. Who rises up for me? against the wicked. Who stands up for me against evildoers? If the Lord had not been my help, my soul would soon have lived in the land of silence. When I thought my foot slips, your steadfast love, O Lord, held me up when the cares of my heart are many. Your consolations. Cheer my soul. Can wicked rulers be allied with you, those who frame injustice By statute, they band together against the life of the righteous and condemn the innocent to death. But the Lord has become my strong And my God, the rock of my refuge, He will bring back on them Their iniquity and wipe them out for their wickedness, the Lord our God will wipe them out That is Psalm 94. And it's it's a great psalm, really, if you understand reality Right? Like sometimes I think we as Christians, we talked about over-spiritualizing things yesterday. Well part of what Nehemiah prayed for was that God would just absolutely humiliate and shame and drag off captive uh the the the enemies of the work of God. You see, if you understand reality, you understand this. Sinful human beings, in their sinful nature Oppose God, hate God, hate God's people, and oppose the work of God They are restless and driven to do evil, to rebel against God. to slander and malign God's people, to attack the work of God, and to try anything they can do to stop it. And you might think, well, most non-Christians seem like Nice enough people? Well sure. Because we live in a comfortable society of abundance and affluence where nobody's really wondering where their next meal is going to come from, and there's not a lot of open violent conflict. But if you study human history and you understand human nature from just observation of the world and the way that it works, what you'll see is that almost every part of the world has had a history of gender. Genocide of one group against another that was brutal and ruthless. Warfare where, you know If if the generals give free reign to the soldiers after they've captured a city, they rape and pillage and plunder and burn and murder with widespread abandon. you know, killing squads of people who round up and kill innocent people and do so willingly. Like there's there's a lot of evil in the world. And it's still today, it might be a little bit more hidden and a little bit more sanitized, but when we're talking about millions and millions of unborn babies who are innocent and who don't And who are helpless and vulnerable are poisoned and ripped apart and destroyed for the convenience of the mother and for the convenience of our society who thinks that These are disposable human beings who don't have any rights. This is evil. The world we live in is evil. And God would be unjust. In fact, God would be evil. If he were to sit back and say, oh, it's okay, don't worry about it. It'll be alright. You know, God is not some mealy-mouth, Pollyanna, milk toast you know, figure. He he's the judge of the universe. He's he's the God of vengeance and the judge of the earth. And when Jesus come again, God will execute justice. Deserved holy, righteous justice on all the nations and on all those who have hated God and his works and his people, and it will be good It will be right because the people of the world really do pour out arrogant words and boast against God and crush God's people and afflict God's heritage. They kill the widow and the sojourner and murder the fatherless. This is what people do when they are unbridled and left to their own devices. It's like, you have something I want, I want it, I'm going to kill you and take it from you, and I don't care That is normal human behavior, and it has been observed throughout the world and throughout history countless times. It's not a pretty sight. And they excuse it by saying, The Lord does not see, the God of Jacob does not perceive. God does see. God does hear. God will judge. That's the message of Psalm ninety-four. God does see the evil in the world. God does hear the outcry of the victims of that evil, and God will judge Judge the evildoer. That is real. And so what's good for us is to be disciplined by the Lord. and taught out of his law how we ought to live, because the same evil heart would naturally be in us if God had not saved us. If God had not caused us to be born again, if God does not discipline us, if God does not teach us how to walk in his ways, we would be like the rest of the world. And professing Christians have done horrible things in the history of the world. Horrible things. Torture and murder and Genocide because we weren't disciplined by the Lord and we weren't taught out of his law. Christians, our fellow professing Christians. And so we need we need the Lord. And so to the extent that you're walking in love and you're walking in obedience, that is God's grace to you. That is God's grace to you. And because God doesn't forsake his people, because God doesn't forsake us, he both disciplines us and teaches us, and he protects us. against the evil. So he he protects us from the evil within by disciplining us and teaching us, and he protects us from the evil without by guarding us and keeping us Us. When I thought my foot slips, verse 18, your steadfast love, O Lord, helped me, held me up. Sometimes, sometimes you can, you know, I don't know if you feel this way, but I do. Sometimes if you're over so overwhelmed by the evilness in the world, by the lies, by the deceit, by the the two-faced, hypocritical, you're just like, you know what? Just Just forget it. Just you know what, just forget it. What's the point? That's that my foot slips. You you you can be so discouraged by patterns of sin that you just think What's the point? But when the cares of my heart are many, your consolations cheer my soul. Knowing that God is the judge and is righteous, makes him our stronghold and our Refuge and keeps us from being overwhelmed, knowing that judgment is coming and all will be made right. And that is part of why we worship God and part of why we find our hope and Let's pray. Father, thank you for saving us from the judgment we deserve by sending your Son to be the Son of sacrifice for our sins. Thank you that your Holy Spirit teaches us your ways out of your law, out of your word, teaches us to walk in humility and obedience. Please continue. We pray this In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's Psalm 94. Tomorrow back to the book of Nehemiah. Have a blessed day in the Lord.