Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you for day 1091. 1,091 days together, and we're going to be finishing out the Psalms today with Psalms 148 to 150. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your love and for your power, for your grace. Thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you for all that we have in Him. We pray that you would be with us today and that you would help us to see you clearly and to worship you more deeply through the time we spend in these psalms. This morning we pray in the name of Jesus our Savior. Amen. Psalm 148. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord from the heavens, praise him in the heights, praise him all his angels, praise him all his hosts, praise him, sun and moon, praise him all you shining stars, praise him you highest heavens, and you waters above the heavens. Let them praise the name of the Lord. For he commanded, and they were created, and he established them forever and ever He gave a decree, and it shall not pass away. Praise the Lord from the earth, you great sea creatures and all deeps. fire and hail, snow and mist, stormy wind fulfilling his word, mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars, beasts and all livestock, creeping things and flying birds, Kings Of all the earth and all peoples, princes and all rulers of the earth, young men and maidens together, old men and children, let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted. His majesty is above earth and heaven. He has raised up a horn for his people. Praise for all his saints. For the people of Israel who are near to him, praise the Lord. With these final psalms, we are in the middle of the Hallelujah Psalms, which conclude this. The Psalms end with this series of worshipful, exuberant psalms that begin and end with hallelujah. which is Hebrew translated, praise the Lord. Halel, praise, luya, praise you, ya, Yahweh, praise the Lord. So praise the Lord. And Psalm 148 is calling on literally everything in all creation, all aspects of creation. From the highest to the lowest, from the most majestic to the most simple, to praise the Lord. We have the heavens and the heights and the angels. and the the the powerful hosts the the uh angel armies the sun and the moon and the stars all of them Why? Why should they praise God? Because he commanded and they were created. God said, let there be, and there was. That's why there is anything There would be no universe, no sun, no moon, no stars, no angels, nothing. There would be nothing if it weren't for God. And so because God created and commanded and established them forever and ever By his decree, not only do all things, were all things created in the beginning, but all things continue to exist and have their existence in his word. God's very word creates and sustains all that is, and so all that is should praise Him. And this now extends to the earth. The sea creatures, the deeps, the fire, the hail, the snow, and the mist, the stormy wind, fulfilling his word. All aspects of creation. When you see rain or fog or snow, It's not just happening. It's not mother nature. It's the very creative work of God. And it praises God. It reveals God. Are we seeing it? Mountains and hills and fruit trees and cedars and beasts and livestock and creeping things and flying birds, all of creation. And then people, verses 11 and 12, the final, the final ones who are called upon to praise the Lord are not The planets and the stars and the angels. It's not the wind and the snow and the mountains and the hills. It's people because we are made in his image and we're the ones. who are in active rebellion against him. Kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and all rulers, young men and maidens, old men and children. So you go from kings the greatest to children, the least and most helpless All should praise the Lord. Let them praise the name of the Lord. Why? Because his name alone is exalted People will worship all sorts of other things. They'll worship technology. They'll worship money. They'll worship themselves. They'll worship other gods. But there's only one Lord God Almighty, only one who is the creator and sustainer of everything, whose majesty is above earth and heaven. And we should create we should praise him at verse 13 because he is the most exalted and unique. Creator and sustainer of everything. But also, the final verse, he has raised up a horn for his people. A horn is authority and rule. And also deliverance. And this is the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ is the horn that God has raised up for his people. So verse 13 is calling on all people to praise God because of his creational greatness, but verse 14 for his redemptive greatness. He's raised up a Savior and He's brought us near to Him. So if you know the Lord through the Redeemer, through the Exalted Horn, the Lord Jesus Christ, You have the most reason in all of creation to praise him. Praise him. Psalm 149. Praise the Lord. Sing to the Lord a new song, his praise in the assembly of the godly. Let Israel be glad in his Maker, let the children of Zion rejoice in their King. Let them praise his name with dancing, making melody to him with tambourine and lyre, for the Lord takes pleasure in his people. He adorns the humble with salvation. Let the godly exult in glory. Let them sing for joy on their beds. Let the high praise of God be in their throats and two-edged swords in their hands to execute vengeance on the nations and punishment on the peoples to bind their kings with chains and their nobles with fetters of iron, to execute on them the judgment written. This is honor for all his godly ones. Praise the Lord. So Psalm 148 brought us to a culmination at the end where it's God's people, his saints, who should be praising him the most out of all creation because of his horn that he's raised up. And so now it continues, Psalm 149 continues with this. And that is a new song, which is a way of speaking about the song of salvation, a song for the new work of salvation that God is doing in saving us. We sing a new song, the song of salvation, in the assembly of the godly. So this is Psalm 148 was calling on all creation, literally every single aspect of creation. culminating with God's people, but here it's just God's people called on to praise. Why? Because He's our Maker, He's our King. He takes pleasure in us. He adorns us with salvation. Us, the humble of the earth, the know-nothings, the are nothings, the powerless, the weak. He adorns us with salvation so that we can exalt in glory and sing for joy because God, the great God of the universe, the majestic one above heaven and earth, is our King Our Father? Our Lord? And then verse six can be misunderstood. We have to apply it. Properly, let the praises of God be in their throats and two-edged swords in their hands. What two-edged swords? Well, in the days of Israel, the theocracy, they might actually go to battle with actual swords. Physical swords. We have a better sword. That is the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. It is sharper than any two-edged sword, and it penetrates. And so as we praise God, we are all called upon to proclaim his word. We praise God, we proclaim his word. And by the word of God, by the preaching of the gospel, by the proclamation of Jesus Christ, we seek judgment to those who reject him. Not by being self-righteous and obnoxious and pushy, but just by proclaiming the word of God. We preach judgment. We bring judgment because the Word of God itself brings judgment sharper than a two-edged sword. And this ultimately will be for the honor of all those who belong to God. So praise the Lord. Final Psalm, Psalm 150, the end of the Psalter. Praise the Lord. Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in his mighty heavens. Praise him for his mighty deeds. Praise him according to his excellent greatness. Praise him with the trumpet sound, praise him with the lute and harp, praise him with tambourine and dance, praise him with strings and pipe, praise him with sounding symbols, praise him with loud clashing symbols. Let everything that has breath Praise the Lord, praise the Lord. What a what a beautiful and powerful conclusion to the Psalms. Everything that has breath, praise the Lord, in his sanctuary that is among his people, in his mighty heavens. And why? For two things. For his mighty deeds, that's everything he's done in creation and in salvation, and according to his excellent greatness, according to who he is in his character. The work of God and the character of God are the fuel for the worship of God. And this worship should be exuberant, wholehearted. trumpet, lute, harp, tambourine, dance, strings, pipe. We should be exuberant in our praise of God. Now There are people who believe this means we should be loud musically and very, very boisterous, but that can be just an empty show of mere emotionalism. But it certainly doesn't mean we should be stoic and cold and mumble our way through a worship service. No, we should be exuberant, we should sing out with gusto from our souls. From our very being. Why? Not because we're great singers, because I'm a terrible singer, but because God's a great God. He's done mighty things. He continues to do mighty things. He will do mighty things. And he's so great. He's excellent in his greatness. So let the measure of our praise be his greatness. And forget about yourself and how you sound and who's around you. Give it all you got and praise the Lord and let that overflow into a life that praises the Lord. Amen. Well that brings us to the end of the Psalms. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are praiseworthy. There is no one like you, above everything, beyond everything, and yet near to those who love you. And yet, adorning us with salvation, let our lives be praise to you. Joyful, exuberant. wholehearted, passionate praise and proclamation to the world of who you are. In Jesus' precious name and for his glory, we pray Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for the end of the Psalms. We have just five more days to go. We're going to go to Malachi. Malachi 1 and 2. And then James 5, and then Malachi 3 and 4, and we'll be done after five more days together in the Word of God. Have a blessed day in the Lord.