Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's time for Psalms 71 and 72 in our journey through God's Word. It's day four hundred and seventy-eight, and here we come to two Psalms together. We say one chapter per day, but Almost always when we're in the Psalms, we take more than one psalm at a time. So let's pray and then we'll go into these uh two powerful psalms together. Father. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is true and living and active, that shows us our need for you, that shows us who you are, that shows us Christ, our Redeemer. Would you please do the work by your Holy Spirit in our hearts and lives today by applying your word to our hearts, by bringing forth faith in us, and helping us to follow Jesus more closely? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Psalm seventy one. Wait a minute now. Oops. Well that wasn't very smart now. Now was it? No, it wasn't. Let's try it this way. Psalm 71. Sometimes one wrong click and oops. In you, O Lord, do I take refuge. Let me never be put to shame. In your righteousness, deliver me and rescue me. Incline your ear to me and save me. Be to me a rock of refuge, to which I may continually come. You have given the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress. Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of the unjust and cruel man. For you, O Lord, are my hope, my trust, O Lord, from my youth. Upon you I have leaned from before my birth. You are he who took me from my mother's womb. My praise is continually of you. I have been a portent to many, but you are my strong refuge. My mouth is filled with your praise and with your glory all the day Do not cast me off in the time of old age. Forsake me not when my strength is spent. For my enemies speak concerning me. Those who watch for my life consult together and say, God has forsaken him. Pursue and seize him, for there is none to deliver him. Oh God, be not far from me O my God, make haste to help me. May my accusers be put to shame and consumed with scorn and disgrace. May they be covered who seek my hurt But I will hope continually, and will praise you yet more and more. My mouth will tell of your righteous acts, of your deeds of salvation all the day, for their number is past my knowledge. With the mighty deeds of the Lord God I will come. I will remind them of your righteousness, yours alone. O God, from my youth, you have taught me And I still proclaim your wondrous deeds. So even to old age and grey hairs, O God, do not forsake me until I proclaim your might to another generation, your power to all those to come, your righteousness, O God, reaches the high heavens. You who have done great things, O God, who is like you? You who have made me see many troubles and calamities will revive me again From the depth of the earth you will bring me up again. You will increase my greatness and comfort me again. I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, O my God God, I will sing praises to you with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel. My lips will shout for joy when I sing praises to you, my soul also, which you have redeemed. And my tongue will talk of your righteous help all the day long. For they have been put to shame and disappointed, who sought to do me hurt. Psalm 71. This is a wonderful psalm of praise for deliverance, and I think it's a wonderful glimpse at the heart of Christ. I do think that all the Psalms show us the heart of Christ. But here's one where Jesus is, I believe, speaking through this psalm. It's a prayer of Christ, reflecting his heart revealed to us by the Holy Spirit. Especially this Verse 6, Upon you I have leaned from before my birth. You are he who took me from my mother's womb. My praise is continually of you. This verse says that whoever the psalm singer is, they have been actively trusting the Lord, and the Lord has been their active God and Savior from before their birth. Now, this could apply to John the Baptist, of course, but other than John the Baptist and Jesus, we don't know of too many other examples of this where someone was regenerate, saved, actively trusting God even from before they were born. But of course that would be true. uh of Jesus, even when he was a very tiny embryo in the womb of his mother Mary, when Elizabeth saw him, saw Mary John the Baptist leapt in Elizabeth's womb at the greeting uh of at the presence of his Lord. So uh John the Baptist in the womb of Elizabeth somehow miraculously by the Holy Spirit's inspiration recognized the presence of his lord, even though his lord was just a tiny, tiny brand new embryo. And so he was the Lord, he was the Son of God, he was the Holy One. Even from the very moment of conception that he became a human being, he was God. God man and that that one who who was totally in the hands of his father. So he's been a portent to many, verse seven says. Um So he's a sign, right? He's a sign, uh, to many. Many people are offended because of him. Um and that's that's something that Mary was told uh by Simeon what happened to her, that he would be a sign for the rising and falling of many, and the sword would pierce her own heart. So this idea that Jesus is this definitive uh dividing line, really. He's a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, but he's also the chief cornerstone of the temple. He sought refuge in his father when he had so many enemies. And Jesus had so many enemies. Of course, King David also had many enemies, but Jesus had so many enemies who surrounded him, who plotted against him. um and who who thought that they could get do away with him, especially on the cross. I I I think of those who from the cross would say, you know, he helped others, can he not help himself? And I look at verse eleven, and God has forsaken him, pursue and seize him, for there's none to deliver him. So But where is where is Christ in the midst of these accusers? In the midst of these those who are seeking to destroy him, seeking his hurt, seeking to put him to death, he's hoping in his father. He's praising him more and more He's telling of the kingdom of God. He's telling of the coming salvation of the Lord. He's even foretelling his own death and resurrection. With the mighty deeds of the Lord God, I will come. I will remind them of your righteousness, yours alone. What's such a perfect description of Jesus? Jesus comes in his own self with the mighty deeds of the Lord God. Jesus even said, if you don't believe me. Believe because of the works that have been given to me to do. These are the works of the Father. These are the works of the Lord God, the mighty deeds of the Lord God that Jesus comes in. And when Jesus taught, he taught about the righteousness of God, the kingdom of God, the character of God, the call of God. So again, we we have this beautiful picture of Christ in the midst of um of this suffering. And look at in verse twenty, I think is even clearer. You who have made me see many troubles and calamities will revive me again from the depths of the earth. You will bring me up again. Again. The depth of the earth is a Hebraism for the grave, for death. And so here the psalmist is saying, You're going to bring me up from the dead. And when you bring me up from the dead, you will increase my greatness and comfort me again. Isn't that exactly what happened in Jesus? He was raised from the dead, and Romans one tells us he was declared to be the Son of God with power by his resurrection. From the dead. He his greatness was increased by his resurrection from the dead. And what we see through here, what do we see in Psalm 71? We see that Christ, though he experienced significant trouble, Though he seemed to be forsaken by God, though he was surrounded by enemies, though they hounded him even unto death, yet his confidence was always in his father. And he looked to his father to bring him back from the dead and to bring salvation and righteousness. and the kingdom to the world through the exaltation of Christ from the dead. And what does that mean for us? That means for us if we're following after Jesus, here's what we should expect. We should expect to be rejected by the world. We should expect to be mistreated, misunderstood. We should expect to be mocked. But we should also expect That if we continue following Jesus and we look to our Heavenly Father, He will answer us and He will deliver us, and we too will pass through death into eternal life. Alright, let's move on to Psalm seventy-two, a song a psalm of Solomon. So it's a very very few psalms from Solomon, uh but here Here we go. Give the king your justice, O God, and your righteousness to the royal son. May he judge your people with righteousness and your poor with justice. Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people, and the hills in righteousness. May He defend the cause of the poor of the people, give deliverance to the children of the needy, and crush the oppressor May they fear you while the sun endures, and as long as the moon throughout all generations. May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass, like showers that water the earth. In his days may the righteous flourish. and peace abound till the moon be no more. May he have dominion from sea to sea and from the river to the end May desert tribes bow down before him and his enemies lick the dust. May the kings of Tarshish and of the coastlands render him tribute. Serve him. Verse 12, For He delivers the needy when he calls, the poor and him who has no helper. He has pity on the weak and needy, and saves the lives of the needy. From oppression and violence he redeems their life, and precious is their blood in his sight Long may he live. May gold of Sheba be given to him. May prayer be made for him continually, and blessings invoked for him all the day. May there be abundance of grain in the land. On the tops of the mountains may it wave, may its fruit be like Lebanon And may people blossom in the cities like the grass of the field. May his name endure forever, his fame continue as long as the sun. May people be blessed in him, and all nations call him blessed Blessed. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, who alone does wondrous things. Blessed be his glorious name forever. May the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen. The prayers of David, the son of Jesse are Ended. That's the end of book two of the Psalter, and we're told specifically of this second book that it's a collection of the prayers of David, the son of Jesse. So when we looked at Psalm 71 a few minutes ago, It doesn't have David's name on it specifically, but it is part of a collection that's identified as being part of the prayers of David, the son of Jesse. And this one, even though it's written by Solomon, is still in the line of the Davidic kingship. I think it's hard to miss the fact that this one's about Jesus as well. If Psalm seventy-one is about the suffering of Jesus at the hands of his enemies and how he's looking to his father to deliver him and he is delivered. This is about the reign of King Jesus. So Jesus was resurrected from the dead, and then he ascended into heaven. And he sat down at the right hand of God the Father, at the right hand of the Majesty on High, on the throne that is the highest throne in the universe, where he received the name that is above every name. He is King of Kings, He is Lord of Lords, He is Jesus the King. And this psalm celebrates his kingship, his present-day kingship. Jesus is spreading his kingship throughout the world, and his kingdom is spreading From sea to sea, right? From the river to the ends of the earth, verse 8 says, all the tribes of the earth, all the peoples of the earth are hearing the gospel. And they are coming to know Jesus. Maybe not everybody from every tribe, but somebody from every tribe is coming to know Jesus, and they're falling down before him and they're and they're serving him. And this prayer in verse 15, may prayer be made for him continually and blessings invoked for him all the day. Whenever we as God's people pray the Lord's Prayer, we say, your kingdom come. Well, to pray for God's kingdom to come is to pray for the kingdom of Christ Jesus to be expanded throughout the world, for more and more people to come to worship Jesus as their Lord and King. and for his will to be done in more and more near. So we are praying for Jesus to be more and more glorified as King when we pray thy kingdom Come. And I love verse 17. May his name endure forever, his fame continue as long as the Son, may people be blessed in him. And all nations call him blessed. So verse 17 is very closely follows after the promise that God gave in Genesis 22, 18. After Abraham was willing to offer up Isaac, God told him, Through your offspring, all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. And so all people are blessed in Christ when they come to him, and all nations of the earth have people who call him God Blessed. So this is just a wonderful celebration of the expanding kingship of the Lord. And so the application for us is just as in times of trial and struggle and difficulty. We look to the Lord to preserve us and deliver us, just as we look to the Lord to be our resurrection from the dead, even now we should be proclaiming the reality of Christ's present kingship. Over the nations until the whole earth is filled with his glory. Verse 19, may the whole earth be filled with his glory Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, you are so wonderful. You are more wonderful than human language can ever tell. You've given us great pictures. And great songs and great prophecies of your greatness, so that we could know you better. We can enjoy you more deeply. We can spread the knowledge of you. throughout the world. We pray that we would be more faithful ambassadors, more faithful to proclaim the greatness of King Jesus, the greatness of your kingdom, and the righteousness and salvation that is available through your name alone Be glorified, King Jesus, in your church and throughout the world we pray. Amen Amen. Well, that was Psalm 71 and 72. I hope that the Lord blessed you through his word. His word is always a blessing to us. And as always, I hope you have a very blessed day in the Lord today. Day.