Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 595 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. And after yesterday's kind of dark chapter with Jehoram, we come to a wonderful psalm today in Psalm 89. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help Heavenly Father, we love you. We love you because you first loved us, and we love your word because it's a precious gift you've given to us, where you reveal your heart and your mind and your will for us. And we pray that you would help us to pay attention to your word, to receive your word, to understand your word, and to respond in faith in Jesus when we hear your word today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Alright, Psalm 89 is the only Psalm that is written by Ethan the Ezrahite, and Ethan the Ezrahite was one of uh the people that David had appointed to be over the singing in uh in the temple, he's also a very wise man, uh sort of known to be wise. Solomon, when Solomon was praised for his wisdom said that he was even wiser than Ethan the Ezrahite. So that tells you something about about Ethan's wisdom that he was renowned for Alright, Psalm 89. I will sing of the steadfast love of the Lord forever. With my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations. For I said, steadfast love will be built up forever. In the heavens you will establish your faithfulness. You have said I have made a covenant with my chosen one. I have sworn to David, my servant, I will establish your offspring forever and build your throne for all generations. Selah. Let the heavens praise your wonders, O Lord, your faithfulness in the assembly of the Holy Ones. For who in the skies can be compared to the Lord? Who among the heavenly beings is like the Lord, a God greatly to be feared in the council of the Holy Ones, and awesome above all who are around him? O Lord God of hosts, who is mighty as you are, with your faithfulness all around you? You rule the raging of the sea. When its waters rise, you still them. You crushed Rahab like a carcass. You scattered your enemies with your mighty arm. The heavens are yours. The earth also is yours, the world and all that is in it. You have founded them, the north and the south, you have created them. Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name. You have a mighty arm Strong is your hand, high your right hand. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Steadfast love and faithfulness go before you. Blessed are the people who know the festal shout, who walk, O Lord, in the light of your face, who exalt in your name all the day, and in your righteousness are exalted for you. are the glory of their strength. By your favor our horn is exalted, for our shield belongs to the Lord, and our king to the Holy One of Israel. Of old you spoke in a vision to your godly one and said, I have granted help to one who is mighty. I have exalted one chosen from the people. I have found David, my servant. With my holy oil I have anointed him, so that my hand shall be established with him, my arm also shall strengthen him, the enemy shall not outwit him, the wicked shall not humble him. I will crush his foes before him and strike down those who hate him. My faithfulness and my steadfast love shall be with him, and in my name. Shall his horn be exalted? I will set his hand on the sea and his right hand on the rivers. He shall cry to me, You are my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation And I will make him, the firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. My steadfast love I will keep for him for ever, and my covenant will stand firm for him I will establish his offspring forever, and his throne as the days of the heavens. If his children forsake my law, and do not walk according to my rules, If they violate my statutes and do not keep my commandments, then I will punish their transgression with the rod and their iniquity with stripes But I will not remove from him my steadfast love, or be false to my faithfulness. I will not violate my covenant, or alter the word that went forth from my lips Once for all I have sworn by my holiness, I will not lie to David. His offspring shall endure forever. His throne as long as the sun before me. Like the moon it shall be established forever, a faithful witness in the skies. But now you have cast off and rejected. You are full of wrath against your anointed. You have renounced the covenant with your servant. You have defiled his crown. In the dust you have breached all his walls, you have laid his strongholds in ruin, all who pass by plunder him. He has become the scorn of his neighbors. You have exalted the right hand of his foes. You have made all his enemies rejoice. You have also turned back the edge of the sword, and you have not made him stand in battle. You have made his splendor to cease And cast his throne to the ground. You've cut short the days of his youth. You've covered him with shame, Selah. How long? O Lord, will you hide yourself forever? How long will your wrath burn like fire? Remember how short my time is. For what vanity you have created all the children of man. What man can live and never see death? Who can deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Say, Lord Where is your steadfast love of old, which by your faithfulness you swore to David? Remember, O Lord, how your servants are mocked And how I bear in my heart the insults of all the many nations with which your enemies mock, O Lord, with which they mock the footsteps of your anointed. Blessed be the Lord forever. Amen and amen. That last verse is the doxology that concludes book three. So this is the end of the third book. There's five books in the Psalter. In our summer series we're we're largely c covering uh really a a large bulk of book four, which is a largely positive and praise-oriented book. But book three, remember last time we were in the Psalms, we were in Psalm eighty-eight, which was one of the darkest of the Psalms and doesn't even end on a hopeful note. And then Psalm 89 picks up and brings us a more hopeful note before it also comes back. to some of the stress and some of the reality of the difficulty, uh the rejection, the seemingly uh faith-shaking turmoil that Israel is going through. So this is a masculine, which means it's a teaching psalm. Which means whenever we see that, we should be asking, what is God trying to teach me? We should say that every time we're in God's Word, right? But that little masculine, if you see that when you're reading the Psalm, should be a clue. Teaching Psalm, what is the Lord teaching me? And I think one of the things that we can get from here is what do we do when the good and precious promises of God And the reality of what looks to like to be our lives and our lot when they appear to be just really not lining up, right? God has made very precious promises in His Word. His promises never fail. His Word is always fulfilled. He always accomplishes His purposes and always keeps His promises. And yet sometimes we look at our lives and we think Okay, I believe that to be true, but the evidence that I'm seeing in my life right now is hard. Right? It's hard, and I have questions. And one thing we can get from Psalm 89 is that it's okay to go to God and say, God, it's hard and I have questions. Like it's okay. God gives us the language of Psalm 89 for us to be able to pray that and to be able to say What's going on? Why does this not look the way that you said it would look? Right? And yet overall The bulk of Psalm 89 is focused on remembering and believing in and rejoicing in the great and precious promises of the Lord, which do remain true, and God remains faithful even when we can't see it. Right? Even when we're not experiencing it in our personal lives, uh it from what we can see, from our limited vantage point. those things remain true. And that's one of the things that we also get from Psalm 89. So one is it's okay to go to God and say, I don't understand. Uh uh why is this happening? How long is this going to last? Where are your promises? Why does my life look so different from what I thought you said in your word? It's okay to go with him with him uh to him with those questions. But then on the other side we need to remember that all of those promises and all of those good purposes of God they remain true and God is to be worshipped for those things and we can praise him even when we are hurting. So he says right at the beginning here, I will sing of the steadfast love of the Lord forever, and with my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations. And that's his opening declaration. Even though later in the Psalm we can tell he's in the nation uh is is in a very difficult time. The the Davidic kingship is in a very difficult time. One of the things that Bible scholars struggle with is to understand what the background of this psalm is. They don't know for sure. It says it's written by Ethan the Ezrahite. Um it's it's a communal lament. We're not a hundred percent sure if it's the same Ethan Ezrahite who's mentioned as being personally appointed by David or if it's uh a later uh person in the Ezrahite line who might also have been known as Ethan. It's always that little bit of uncertainty uh because there are particularly within the the Levitical line um there are these uh other people. And so like Ezra and Nehemiah, this could be someone who was a disciple of Ezra uh after the return from the exile. It could be a much later Psalm. We just don't know for sure. But what we do know is that he is leading the people of God, teaching the people of God, that even in the darkest times, we must sing of the Hasid of the Lord. That's the steadfast love of the Lord, the hefid of the Lord, which is his heart toward his people. God's heart toward his people, a heart of mercy and justice and love and kindness and steadfast covenant commitment and tender compassion and a a a good disposition toward his people despite the fact that we don't deserve it. And so we can sing of the steadfast love of the Lord forever, because his steadfast love of the Lord never fails. It it never comes to an end. So, where do we see that steadfast love expressed in Psalm 89 is particularly with the Davidic covenant Verse 3, You have said, I have made a covenant with my chosen one, I have sworn to David my servant, I will establish your offspring forever. and build your throne for all generations. So the focus of the praise of God for his steadfast love here is the Davidic covenant. The Davidic covenant is God's covenant with David to say, one of your offspring is going to sit on the throne forever. So having rehearsed in brief in verses 3 and 4 what the Davidic Covenant is, there's this extended praise section about the wonder and the power of God. There's no one else like God. God is more powerful than anyone else. God is awesome. God is mighty. God is faithful. God rules over all. And in in the history of uh God's redeeming love for his people, you can see that power exercised in dramatic ways. Verse 10, when it says you crushed Rahab like a carcass, that is a reference to the crossing through the Red Sea and the drowning of the Egyptian army, which was this great act. by God to deliver his people. Rahab is a reference to Egypt. And so when Egypt was drowned in the the Red Sea This is this is the power of God over nations and over nature, right? He commands the waves of the sea, and he also rules over the nations. And so he just is this extended praise section that really continues all the way down to verse 19. You're the glory of their strength. By your favor, our horn is exalted. Our shield belongs to the Lord, our King. to the Holy One of Israel. So the last line of this extended praise section from verse five to verse eighteen brings us back to this idea that what we're looking at here is our need for a king and the fact that the kingship is in apparently in jeopardy. And so here he then comes back to the Davidic covenant in verse nineteen. And he rehearses the Davidic covenant in more length. He really unfolds, right? Of old you spoke in the vision to your godly one. which is probably the Prophet Nathan, uh, who is a prophet who spoke to David and He said, I found David my servant, with holy oil I've anointed him, so that my hand shall be established with him, my arm shall also strengthen him, the enemy shall not outwit him, the wicked shall not humble him, I will crush his foes before him. I'll strike down those who hate him, etc. , etc. And he says throughout this long section is really a rehearsal of the Davidic Covenant. So they have an extended section of praise and now an extended section of the Davidic Covenant. So here's where Ethan the Ezrahite is reminding the people of God, okay, it is not the case that God is too weak to keep his promises. It is not the case that God is overwhelmed by circumstances that are beyond his control. There are some people who have this view of God. It's like, well, God would like to be nice to you and God would like to help you. but his options are limited, his hands are tied, there's only so much he can do. No, he can do anything. He's the ruler of heaven and earth. And he's made these precious promises. Yes, there's times when the offspring of David would be disciplined, right? Verse 30, if his children forsake my law, they don't walk according to my rules, if they violate my statutes, don't keep my commandments, I'm going to punish their transgression with the rod. But I'm not going to remove my Hasid or be false to my faithfulness. I'm not going to violate my covenant or alter the word that went forth from my lips. And so again, once for all, I've sworn by my holiness, I will not lie to David. His offspring shall endure forever, his throne as long as the sun before me. These two things, God's absolute power and rule, and the clarity and the strength of God's covenant promise, these two things both being true, And God being praiseworthy for these two things are what cause for Ezra and the nation distress. Because they're not seeing God keeping what he said he was going to do. You've cast us off and rejected us. You're full of wrath against us. You've renounced the covenant with your servant. You've defiled his crown in the dust. Now, if this is the Ethan who was at round when David was king, It could be a reference to Absalom's rebellion. Absalom's rebellion would certainly, if that had been allowed to stand, would not have been a way of keeping the Davidic Covenant. But it probably, I think, is a reference to the fact that with the Babylonian exile, the king was removed from Jerusalem. And now they've returned to the land, and there's no king. And there's not going to be a king for hundreds of years. In fact In terms of an earthly son of David reigning on an earthly throne in Jerusalem, it's never happened again. So at 586 BC, some 2600 years ago, The Davidic kingship as an earthly manifestation with a throne in Jerusalem ended. And I think I think this is probably written after that exile. Can't say that for sure. It could be during Absalom's rebellion, but it certainly is during a time when it looks doubtful that the David kingship is going to continue and it's causing deep distress. Now what do we know that Ezra, that Ethan the Ezrahite did not know? What do we know? Well we know It's that God has kept his Davidic covenant promise in Jesus. That Jesus is the king who sits on the throne forever and ever. We even get some hints at this in verse 48. What man can live and never see death? Who can deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? There's a little hint as he's lamenting, as the nation is lamenting Jesus, of course, is the answer to those questions, right? What man can live and never see death? Well, Jesus is alive forevermore and will never see death. Who can deliver his soul from the power Sheol? Jesus has overcome the grave and has the keys of death in Hades. Jesus is the answer. So where is your steadfast love of old, which by your faithfulness you swore to David? It's being kept in Jesus right now. And so this is the anchor for our souls, is the Lord Jesus Christ, who sits at the right hand of God the Father, who is risen and exalted and coming again. And ultimately, that's where we can now turn that Ethan the Ezrahite didn't have that clear knowledge of God when we are living lives in such a way that it looks like, okay, God is all powerful. And God has promised precious things, but I don't see that reality in my life. Where is my hope? Where is the fulfillment of God's promises? Where do I find the the the hasid of the Lord in times like this and the answer is Jesus and that's not just a Sunday school answer for kids it's the answer Jesus, he sits upon the throne. He reigns forevermore. He will come again and make a final end to all evil. He will be our faithful shepherd. Through all the mocking of the world, all the dejection and doubt that we deal with, he will never fail And we can always trust Him. Let's pray. Father, you are good, always. Sometimes we just don't see it. We're blind because of our sin, because of our belief that we know more than we actually do know, that we think we see more than we actually do see. But you are good and faithful, and you love us, and you keep your promises in Jesus all. Always. Help us to trust that. Help us not to doubt. Help us to love you for how much you have loved us and have done for us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Psalm 89. I am hopeful that Mike will be back tomorrow for the weekend devotionals, the next two. And so we'll pray for that. And hopefully tomorrow when you tune in, it'll be Mike here with you. And until then, have a blessed day in the Lord.