Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to our 846th day together in the Word of God as we're in the Psalms, in the Ps of Ascent, these pilgrim songs of going up to Jerusalem on pilgrimage. They're great for us to remind us that we're on pilgrimage through this world, heading toward our heavenly Jerusalem, our heavenly home. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look at these three psalms. Together today. Heavenly Father, you are good, unfailingly, wonderfully good. Please write your word on our hearts. Please help us to see you by faith, to know you, to love you. love you and to respond to you in trust and obedience with our lives, with our hearts, with our souls. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Psalms 123 to 125. Let's look at 123 first. Say Psalm number sense. To you, I lift up my eyes O you who are enthroned in the heavens, behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master, as the eyes of maidservant to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes look to the Lord our God till he has mercy upon us. Have mercy upon us, O Lord, have mercy upon us, for we have had more than enough of contempt. Our soul has had more than enough of the scorn of those who are at ease of the contempt of the proud. Most of the songs of events are very short, very punchy, very direct, and very helpful to us Last time we were in the Songs of Ascent, we were looking at 120, 121, 122. We saw the motivation to get out of the land of those who hate peace. The land of war, Meshach, and Kedar, and to go lift up our eyes to the hills. made the heavens and he keeps us. He keeps us in all of our goings out and comings in. He's sovereign. He's our keeper. And then 122, we're standing in Jerusalem. We're standing with in the midst of your people. We we saw that as a call to weekly worship with God's people on Lord's Day mornings and how important that is, how vital it is, as well as to keep our eyes fixed on the heavenly Jerusalem. which is our true and eternal home. Well now we've come into Jerusalem, we've come into the presence of God, we come into the temple complex. and we're looking to the Lord. No longer I lift up my eyes to the hills, as 121 said, but I lift up my eyes to you, O Lord. To you who are enthroned in the heavens, in the temple, looking toward the Lord. And of course, us in worship, in church, we might say, you know, you can apply this to the weekly rhythms of the Christian life. You know, if you're watching this when it first comes out, it's coming out on a Thursday, you might say, oh, it's Thursday. I've got days to go until I'm going to be in church. I'm in the middle of the world. I'm in the middle of my week. It's been days since I was in worship. Feel feel beat down. You kind of feel like Psalm 120. The world doesn't acknowledge God. The world doesn't care about God. The world doesn't want peace that comes From God alone, God's shalom. And so I'm going to lift up my eyes to Jerusalem, to the hills, to where my heart wants to be. But then as we gather for worship on a Sunday morning, as the call to worship is ram and we're gathered in. Where are we looking then? We're in church now. We're with God's people now. It's what we've been training our hearts to long for all week, but now what? Well now we don't stop until we meet with the Lord, because we're there not to just meet with God's people, not to just get away from the world, not to just get a break, not to just get amongst some friendly faces and some kind people were there to meet with the Lord. And so we lift up our eyes to the Lord. And what do we want from God? More than anything else, we are desperate for mercy. We're desperate for mercy. God is the master. We are the slave. We look to Him in complete dependence. Everything we have comes from Him. Everything we need is given to us. He sustains us, he strengthens us, but we need mercy. What is mercy? It is the forgiveness of our sins. It is the withholding of punishment. It is the the compassion of a God who is tenderhearted toward weak and sinful children. And so we look to the Lord till He has mercy on us. Have mercy upon us. Have mercy. upon us three times repeated in just two lines. We need God's mercy. That's why when we gather for worship at Fourth Hill, we have, after the call to worship and the opening worship songs, we We have a call to confess. We have a scripture reading that prompts us to confess, and then we confess our sins because we're asking for mercy from God, and we have assurance of forgiveness, and then we sing praises to the Lord. We're taking that as a biblical pattern of work. And as we're looking for mercy from the Lord, you know what the opposite of seeking mercy is? It's to be scornful, at ease, and contempt. Contemptuous. And proud. If you're seeking mercy, you can't be any of those things. You can't be scornful, you can't be at ease, you can't be contemptuous, and you can't be So if we're going to really seek mercy, we need to have had enough of that. I don't need to tell you that the world is full of that. The world is full of scorn. Toward, really? Toward who? Toward God, yes, but toward anybody who disagrees with us. We're the ones who are right. They're the ones who are wrong. We scorn them. We scorn God. We scorn our enemies in the world. We're at ease. Right? Now the Bible counts as a ha a warning, woe to those who are at ease in Zion. Shouldn't be at ease in Zion, because the Lord God Almighty, holy, the God we've been encountering in Job, the God who is the only one who can have mercy on us. We could we dare not be at ease. Contempt? We can't have contempt for the things of God. And we can't be proud. Not if we're looking for mercy. Not if we're looking for For mercy. So then we move on to 124. And this is another psalm of David here in the Psalms of Ascents. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, let Israel now say. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side when people rose up against us, then they would have swallowed us alive, when their anger was kindled against us. Then the flood would have swept us away, the torrent would have gone over us, then over us would have gone the raging waters. Blessed be the Lord who has not given us as prey to their teeth. We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken and we have escaped. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven And earth. This psalm reminds us that the world will never be friends with the people of God, and that God is our only hope. of deliverance. There are some people who think that if only fill in the blank, then the world would truly like us and celebrate us and receive us. Us as their own. You know what the only thing that goes in a blank is there? If only we were one of them, then the world would like us and receive us and love us as one of them. That's exactly what Jesus said. Jesus said that. So don't argue with him. If you belong to God, if you've been chosen by God, if you've been called by Christ out of the world, you're still in the world, but you're no longer of the world. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. That's what Jesus says. But instead, they don't love us. They want to snare us. Satan wants to snare us. He works through the world. He works through our flesh. And Satan would love to swallow us up. And cast us away. The world would love to entice us and seduce us and trap us and enslave us and make us irrelevant Our only hope is God. Because the Lord is on our side. As Romans 8 says, if God is for us, who can be against us? Because God is on our side. Then even if the whole world opposes, we don't need to get angry. See, this is the thing. The two the two cup from the two big, big errors that Christians make, and you see it every day if you're paying attention, the two big errors that Christians make regarding the world is that they compromise to go along with the world and what the world says is good and right and true. to be accepted, or they get angry at the world and they lash out in a sort of arrogant, self-righteous indignation, with a scorn, with a contempt of the proud. Neither one of those is right for God's people. The way of the cross is different. The way of the cross says, I will follow Jesus, I will be faithful to him. I will trust in him. I'm not going to hate people in the world. I'm called to love my neighbor as myself. I'm not going to have the scorn and the contempt of the proud. No, I'm going to have a gentle word that turns away wrath. But I'm not going to compromise. I'm not going to tell the world that it's right. I'm gonna trust the Lord. And we can trust the Lord. David, it's appropriate that he wrote this, because David of all people knew. you could trust the Lord. He was delivered out of Saul's hands on multiple occasions, out of Absalom's hands. He was delivered out of the hands of the Philistines. He was delivered, and we are delivered because our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Our help is nothing less and no one less than the creator and sustainer of God. All it is. More about that help, that hope, that security we have in Christ comes to us in Psalm 125. Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved, but abides forever. As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the Lord surrounds his people. From this time forth and forevermore, for the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land allotted to the Ways the Lord will lead away with evildoers. are surrounded by God. Forever. Forever. So we don't need to compromise with the world. You see, the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land a lot of just the righteous. So if what happens if God's people, the righteous, go after a scepter of wickedness? What if they chase after an earthly ruler who is wicked? And ask him to rule over them. What if that happens? Oh, that could never happen. No, of course not. Never would we see God's people running after A man of the world who is wicked and basically pleading with him to rule over them. We wouldn't see that, would we? Of course. Not. But hypothetically speaking, let's say we did see that happening, then what's going to happen? Not good things. Because the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land allotted to the righteous. That's idolatry. That's worldliness. That's compromise. And they will be punished. God's people will be disciplined and broken. Because the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land allotted to the righteous, lest of the righteous stretch out their hands to do wrong. God will keep that promise. Even if he has to discipline his own children severely. That's what happened. What happened when evil kings rose up in Judah and in Israel? Israel and reigned over God's people. What happened? God disciplined them until that king was removed and replaced by someone who was righteous. We need to make sure that our hearts belong to one true king. We have a king. We have a king. He's not an American. He's on a throne much higher than any throne on earth. His scepter is the scepter that really reigns over us. We need to make sure that our hearts are loyal to us to him and to him alone. No compromise with the world, no anger at the world Loyalty to King Jesus, ambassadorship from King Jesus, citizenship in heaven with our King Jesus. So do good, O Lord, to those who are good, to those who are upright in their hearts. Are we good? Only because God's grace has made us that way through Jesus. Are we upright in our hearts? Only because God's grace has made us that way in Jesus So Lord, please don't let us turn aside to crooked ways. Please don't lead us after the evildoers, because we'll be led away into in a worldly sense, even if our souls will be kept, will be we'll be wrecked rescued as if through fire, as as Paul says about those who are subject to church discipline. So this is a reminder to us. We have a real security. We have it. We don't need to vote for it. We don't need to plead for it. We don't need to go running after it We don't need to argue for it or fight for it. We have a real security that is in Christ. We have a real king whose power far surpasses all earthly powers. He will keep us. can trust him. That's our big message from today. Let's pray. Father, there is no one like you. You are so wonderful. King Jesus, you are the one true King of Kings and Lord of Lords. With a scepter of righteousness and a throne of justice, you reign over your people. Let us Bow the knee to you and to no one else. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Psalms 13. twenty two to one twenty five tomorrow. We're going to pop over to the book of Proverbs. Hope you can join me then. Have a blessed day in the Lord.