Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 652 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. And we come back to the Psalms now, Psalms 95 and 96. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to his word today. Heavenly Father, you are so good, you are so great, you are so kind and loving and faithful and true. Father, we need you. We need you to be our God and our our rock, our salvation, the one who keeps us, the one who loves us. We need you to help us to worship you rightly, which is really what these psalms are all about. Help us to know what it is to be your people, what it is to be called to worship you, what it is to worship you in spirit and in truth, what it is to acknowledge you as King and God. So Lord, please uh teach us, grow us, make us more like Jesus. We pray in his name. Amen. Psalm 95. Oh, come, let us sing to the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving. Let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise. For the Lord is a great God. Let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God, and we are the people of His pasture and the sheep of His hand. Today If you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts, as at Meribah, as on the day at Massah in the wilderness when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof, though they had seen my work. For forty years I loathed that generation, and said, They are a people who go astray in their heart, and they have not known my ways. Therefore I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter. my rest. That is Psalm 95. It is a a call to worship, really a call to worship God rightly. and for who he is and a warning against worshiping God wrongly. So it begins with a very simple invitation. Oh, come, let us sing to the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation It's compelling to me that the Bible repeatedly calls us to make a joyful noise. That is, that we should always be rejoicing before God. Because God is always good to us. He's always far better to us than we deserve. He is always treating us better than what our sins deserve. He's always treating us with fatherly compassion, loving kindness, steadfast love, faithfulness to his promises. He is always good, and therefore we should always be joyful. And it's a joyful noise. We may not sing with skill and precision, but we are called to sing. with joy and exuberance to the rock of our salvation. Who is the rock of our salvation? Of course it's Jesus Christ 1 Corinthians 10 tells us of the Exodus generation, that the rock that followed them from which they drank was Christ. That's what 1 Corinthians 10 says. says. And that's really important because if you ask the Israelites about the rock of our salvation They would probably think back to that rock in the wilderness, the rock that was their salvation, because it provided for them water in the desert, without which they all would have died. Jesus provides for us thirst water for our thirsty souls. We would die without Jesus providing the living water that He alone can give by His death and resurrection. So we make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Yahweh, the Lord, is the rock of our salvation. We come into his presence with thanksgiving for all that he has done for us. We make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise. And why should we do this? We're given two main reasons here. In verses 3 to 5, it's because he is the great God and creator. He's made everything. He's the king above all gods. That means he's got everything. He's got the whole world in his hands. Right? That's that old children's song that we learned. He's got the whole world in his hands, and he really does. Everything belongs to him. And so we should worship him because he's the creator and the king of creation. The second reason we should worship him is given in verse 7, and that is because he is our God. We are his people. So by adoption. He has made us his own people, and he has pledged to be our own God. That is the essence of the covenant of grace. The promise that God makes to us is I will be your God and you will be mine. My people. He is our God. So we should worship him joyfully, thankfully, exuberantly, because He's the creator and the great king of creation, and he is our God, and we are his people. And then there's a sober warning. Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. Because the people in the wilderness generation, those who were at Meribah and Masah in the wilderness, that Exodus generation, the ones who drank from the rock that followed them, they put God to the test. They did not believe God's promises. They put God to the proof though they had seen his work. They saw him send the ten plagues on Egypt, including the death of the firstborn. They saw him part the Red Sea. They saw him provide manna from heaven. They saw him provide water from the rock. And yet when God said, Go up into the land, they said, Oh no, we can't go. There's giants in the land. We're like grasshoppers in their sight. They would not believe God. for what he had promised them. And that's the warning to us. The warning to us is if we come into church and we're singing with joyful praise and we're giving thanks, And we're saying God is God and He's the great King above all gods, and He is our God, and we are His people. We're saying all those right things. Do we believe Him for His promises? Do we trust him to be good to us on Monday morning when we face the real world? Whatever that means? Do we? Do we believe him to be faithful to keep his promises? We must receive the word with faith. We must trust in his promises. Because that is the only kind of worship that really is pleasing to God. Otherwise, it's just noise-making. It could be joyful, it could be thankful in word, but it's not from the heart sincere unless we really believe his promise. Okay, Psalm 96, the emphasis is on the holiness of God. Oh, sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord all the earth. Sing to the Lord, bless his name, tell of his salvation from day to day declare among the nations his marvelous works among all the peoples, for great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods, for all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the Lord made the heavens splendor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Ascribed to the Lord, O families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength, ascribe to the Lord the glory to his name. Bring an offering, and come into his courts. Worship the Lord in its splendor of holiness. Tremble before him all the earth. Say, Among the nations, the Lord reigns. Yes, the world is established, it shall never be moved. He will judge the peoples with equity Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar, and all that fills it, let the field exult, and everything. In it. Then all the trees of the forest sing, then shall all the trees of the forest sing for joy before the Lord, for he comes. He comes to judge the earth, he will judge the world in righteousness. And the peoples in his faithfulness. That is Psalm 96. So, Psalm 96 is again telling us to say. Sing, sing, sing, and tell, declare. That's what we're doing. When we're singing. in church. We are declaring before God and to one another and before any visitors who might come or those who might tune in on the live stream, right? We are singing, we are declaring, we are telling. that God is great, that his salvation is in Jesus, that he is glorious in all the earth. And we are to take this out to the nations. Notice the emphasis on the nations. Declare his glory among the nations. His marvelous works among all the peoples. Why should we declare the glory of God among all the peoples? Because the peoples are worshiping false gods. Out in the world? Whether that's here in Bel Air or in Harper County, Maryland, or the United States, or the far reaches of the earth, the people out there in the world are worshiping false gods which are not gods. That's what they're doing. They're worshiping false gods that are not gods. And so we have to declare to them who is the one true God. Who is the Lord of heaven and earth? Who is the sovereign one? All the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, they're empty nothings. You can't put your hope in Muhammad the Prophet or Krishna or the Buddha or money or fame or power or pleasure. or entertainment. The gods, the celebrities, the power brokers, the stock market, whatever it is, there's a hundred million gods out there in the world. People will give their lives to anything from a boat to a job, to a Hindu pagan idol, to sex, to drugs, rock and roll, entertainment. Whatever, like almost anything, people will give themselves to in the hopes that that thing is going to fulfill them. But that thing has no real glory. That thing is worthless. It's empty. It's a non-God. But the Lord, Yahweh, the one true God, he made the heavens. He made the heavens. Splendor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. He's the one who reigns in glory, and he's the one who is strong and beautiful for his people. And so everyone in the world is called to praise him, ascribe to the Lord, O families of the peoples. That's everybody in the world. Some people think the Old Testament is only for Israel. That is so not true. The Old Testament is not for Israel. The Old Testament has always been for the world. Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord, glory and Strength. Say among the nations. Verse 10: The Lord reigns, yes, the world is established, it shall never be moved. He will judge the peoples, that's all the peoples of the world, with equity. And so if God is coming to judge the world, creation rejoices. Why? Why does creation rejoice when God is coming to judge the world? Because when Jesus comes again to judge the world, And he is coming again to judge the world. When he does so, he will bring a final end to all evil. The shadow of death will be removed from his good creation. All creation will be free To be as glorious and undying as it was intended to be in the beginning before sin cursed everything. So we have a privilege. As those who know God now, we have a privilege. Psalm 95 tells us, come to him with thanksgiving and believe his promises. for our lives. And then Psalm ninety six says, Go out and tell the nations about who he is. Come, worship, bow down, believe, receive his promises, go and tell and see That's what we're called to do. It's as simple as that. We've got to set aside the other distractions so that we can do that. Amen? Let's pray. Father, call us to yourself in worship and send us out from yourself in mission. Call us to yourself in faith and trust. And send us out to share that faith and that trust with the world that needs to hear the truth about who the one true God is and about your Son, Jesus Christ, our Son. Salvation. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that is Psalms 95 and 96. Thanks for joining me today. As always, I really do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.