Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 1017. Our 100 and 17th day together in the Word of God, and we are here looking at Psalms 143 to 145. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you. Thank you for your love. Thank you for your power. Thank you for your wisdom. We trust in you. We can trust in you. Help us to trust in you completely. Because of how loving and wise and powerful you are, your heart toward us is disposed for our good, and you are infinite and eternal in your wisdom and Power. Thank you. Speak to us now through your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Psalms 143 to 145. We'll do these one at a time. Psalm 143 is a psalm of David. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Give ear to my pleas for mercy. In your faithfulness and Answer me in your righteousness. Enter not into judgment with your servant, for no one living is righteous before you, for the enemy has pursued my soul He has crushed my life to the ground. He has made me sit in darkness like those long dead. Therefore, my spirit faints within me My heart within me is appalled. I remember the days of old. I meditate on all that you have done. I ponder the work of your hands. I stretch out my hands to you. My soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Answer me quickly, O Lord. Hide not your face from me, lest I be like those who go down to the pit. Let me hear in the morning of your steadfast love, for in you I trust. Make me know the way I should go. For to you I lift up my soul. Deliver me from my enemies, O Lord. I have fled to you for refuge. Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Let your good spirit lead me on level ground. For your name's sake, O Lord, preserve my life. In your righteousness, bring my soul out of trouble, and in your steadfast love, you will cut off my enemies. And you will destroy all the adversaries of my soul, for I am your servant. This psalm is a plea to the Lord for mercy and for deliverance. It is a penitential psalm. An individual lament, someone who is is troubled, and they're troubled by their own sin because they're asking for mercy. And they're saying, enter not into judgment with your servant, for no one living is righteous before you. This is the cry of the heart of a believer. This is us. We are guilty. We need the Lord to have mercy on us. We would not be able to stand if the Lord were to enter into judgment with us, because no one living is righteous before God. God. We need Jesus to be our righteousness. We need Jesus to be our forgiveness. And the enemy. We have a real enemy. We have enemies. There's the enemy, verse 3, who is Satan. He pursues us. But then there are my enemies, verse 9, which is not only Satan, but also the world and our own flesh. And so our enemies. The enemy and our enemies. They pursue us, and we need deliverance. We need mercy from God and we need deliverance. And this psalm gives us the words to pray for that. So when we are guilty, when we are feeling inadequate, weak, overwhelmed, tired, tempted, tried. Sometimes failing, we run to the Lord. We run to the Lord. And we cry out in this way. Have mercy on me. Deliver me. And there's a confidence in this cry. The confidence in this cry is that the Lord will hear And he will answer according to his steadfast love. Verse 8, let me hear in the morning of your steadfast love. It's the steadfast love of the Lord that is our hope. This is his chesed. So in verse 8, let me hear in the morning of your steadfast love, verse 12, and in your steadfast love you will cut off my enemy. Let me hear of your chesed. In your chesed you will cut off my enemies. That's the hope. It's what we need. And it's what we're promised, it's what we're given in Jesus, and what we will be given in Jesus. You see, Christ has died to pay for all of our sins. He's the embodiment of the steadfast love of the Lord. He comes to our rescue when we cry out to him. His Holy Spirit applies the righteousness of Jesus to us, and his arm delivers us from our enemy, and he will answer us when Jesus comes again. Takes us to be with himself forever, we will be delivered of all. You will destroy, verse 12, all the adversaries of my soul, for I am you Your servant. It's a wonderful today in worship. If you're watching this on Sunday morning when this is being released, today in worship we're going to hear in the sermon from Isaiah 44 about how wonderful it is to be The servant of the Lord. What a wonderful, precious title that is. It's the title that's used of the Lord Jesus in Isaiah, but it's also used of us. So we are the servant of the Lord. He will care for us. His good spirit will lead us on level ground. He will teach us to do his will. He will be our refuge. And one day he will just Deliver us from all of our trouble and cut off all of our enemies. Amen. Psalm 144, another Psalm of David. Blessed be the Lord, my rock, who trains my hands for war and my fingers for battle. He is my steadfast love And my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield, and he in whom I take refuge, who peoples subdue, who subdues peoples under me. O Lord, what is man that you regard him? Or the Son of Man that you think of him? Man is like a breath, and his days are like a passing shadow. Bow your heavens, O Lord, and Come down, touch the mountains so that they smoke, flash forth the lightning and scatter them, send out your arrows and route them, stretch out your hand from on high. Rescue me and deliver me from the many waters, from the hand of foreigners, whose mouths speak lies, and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood I will sing a new song to you, O Lord. Upon a ten-stringed harp I will play to you, who gives victory to kings, who rescues David his servant from the cruel sword, rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners whose mouths speak lies, and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. May our sons, in their youth, be like plants full grown, our daughters like corner pillars cut for the structure of a palace. May our granaries be full, providing all kinds of produce, may our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields, may our cattle be heavy with young, suffering no mishap or failure in bearing. May there be no cry of distress in our streets. Blessed are the people to whom such blessings fall. Blessed are the people whose God is the Lord. Amen. Psalm 144. Psalm 144 picks up on many of the same themes as Psalm 143. This is a royal psalm where it's focused more upon the king, whereas 143 is a penitential psalm focused more upon our own personal sins, but they're both in the context of battle and enemies and the need for the Lord's help. The Lord is our rock He's the strong refuge, shelter, place of defense. He's also the one who trains us for war. What's that war? It's that spiritual warfare that we're called to in Ephesians 6 Our hands, they hold the sword of the Spirit, the Word of God. Here, in our daily times together, the Lord is training us in the Word of God so that we can wield the Word of God in battle. Against the enemy. God is our steadfast love and our fortress, our stronghold, our deliverer, our shield, the one in whom I take refuge. Look at that. descriptions of God here in this opening stanza of Psalm 144. He is all of that to us And so what are we? If that's all that God is to us, what are we to Him? He doesn't need us. We're like a breath. We're like a passing shadow. He doesn't need us. And yet he does come to our rescue. He comes to our rescue because of who he is. Because not only is he so strong and so powerful and so mighty, but he loves us and he rescues us and he delivers us because we are precious to him. And so in response to that, verse 9, we sing to him. We sing. We praise him. We rejoice in him. And then we look forward to the blessing of God. This last stanza will ultimately be finally fulfilled in the new heavens and the new earth. Where we will be so abundantly and eternally blessed that it will be astounding It is unimaginable. Eye has not seen, nor ear has heard, nor has it entered into the imagination of man what the Lord has prepared for those who love him. We don't even know. This is pictures, images. Do we experience that in this life? Yes. We get foretasts of this blessing in this life. But in this life, we also have times of need and times of disappointment and times of battle. But when the victory is finally, See, this is a picture of when the king has his final triumph, when the enemies are finally defeated, like the end of Psalm 143, when all of our enemies are subdued, this blessing will come. And that's why we are truly blessed. It's not that we're richer than other people in this life. Some people want to say, oh, you're a child of the king. Claim your blessings. Get them now. You get a bigger house. You get a new car. I would rather have the Lord and the eternal blessings that He has in store for me than the passing temporary toys that moth and rust destroy. Isn't that what Jesus said? Don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourself treasures in heaven where moth and rust cannot destroy. Where thieves do not break into. So while we are thankful for the blessings we have in this life, don't let this last stanza lead you into some prosperity gospel direction, but rather the eternal prosperity. That is ours awaiting us when the Lord Jesus returns. Alright, our last psalm for today, Psalm 145, a song of praise. A song of praise. of David. I will extol you, my God and King, and bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you Bless you and praise your name for ever and ever. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. One generation shall Commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts. On the glorious splendor of your majesty, and on your wondrous works, I will meditate They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds, and I will declare your greatness. They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness. and shall sing aloud of your righteousness. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all and And his mercy is over all that he has made. All your works shall give thanks to you, O Lord, and all your Saints shall bless you. They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom, and tell of your power, to make known to the children of man your mighty deeds, and the glorious splendor of your Your kingdom. Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations. The Lord is faithful in all his words and kind in all his works. The Lord upholds all who are falling. and raises up all who are bowed down. The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season. You open your hand, you satisfy the desire The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works. The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and saves them. The Lord preserves all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy. Of the Lord, and let all flesh bless His holy name forever and Ever. Amen. That's Psalm 145. What a wonderful, powerful Psalm. I have preached on this one, and so if you want to hear a full sermon, you can just search for Psalm 145 on our YouTube channel or in sermon audio. And you'll be able to find that. But it's a it's it's just a powerful, powerful psalm. And it really is the response of praise that is due to God for what we saw in Psalms 143 and 144. In Psalms 143 and 144, there was a need for rescue and deliverance, there was a need for victory for the king, and there was a proclamation that we will praise God. When he delivers, well now we do the praising. This is the song of praise for those who have received this deliverance. So for those of us who live this side of the cross, we've seen the deliverance of God. Our sins have been forgiven. We've been adopted as children of God. We've called upon the Lord. He's come to our rescue with mercy and with salvation. We should sing this song. We should praise the Lord. Every day, forever and ever. And we will. Even into eternity, even forever and ever. we will praise him. While we're in this world, it's one generation to another, one generation to another. Verse 4. One generation What do we praise God for? The glorious splendor of His majesty and His wondrous works. That is who God is as the majestic and glorious God and what God has done for us. In his wondrous works. We speak, we speak of what God has done, and we declare how great he is. It's what God has done and who God is that is the substance of our praise. And what is this? Here is in verses eight and nine we have The essence statement of who God is and what He's done. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all. And his mercy is over all that he has made. So God in in of himself, he's not only infinite in power infinite in wisdom. He's not only holy, holy, holy. He is, of course, but toward us, in his in his disposition toward us, he's gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. He is good. He is merciful to all and over all. There is no one drawing breath in God's world who is not receiving from God, moment by moment, his mercy. Because it is mercy that gives us our very next breath, our very next heartbeat, our next day of life comes from the mercy of God, the goodness of God. is over all that he's made. And so everyone should be praising the Lord. Because everyone receives his Blessing. But it is the privilege of those who are believers who see this truth to be able to speak forth this truth. If we see it, if we know it by faith, we should speak forth It boldly, continually, how good God is, how good God is, how good God is. The one thing I want to challenge us with from this psalm. other than just praising God in this way, is to really believe in the all of Psalm one forty five. Life is full of difficult things. Hurricanes come. Cancelling Answer comes. Strife within our families comes, doubts come, trials come. But God says All. The Lord upholds all who are fallen and raises up all who are bowed down. The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season. You open your hand, you satisfy the desire of every living thing. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works. The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and saves them. The Lord preserves all who love Do we believe the alls that are in those verses? It's the word of God. It is the truth. We must believe it. And the more we believe it, the more deep and rich, and heartfelt and powerful our praise will be. Because no matter what happens, the Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works. And he preserves all who love him. And we say, hallelujah. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Let's pray. Father, there is no one like you. You are the source of every good blessing, every bit of strength. we have, every day of life we get to live, every everything we've ever enjoyed has been a gift personally and wisely given By you. Every trial we've been called to endure, every struggle we've had to overcome has been a gift from you given to us in love for our good. Help us to believe that, that our praise of you might be deeper and richer and fuller still. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Psalms 143 to 145. We are going to get back to Ezekiel's temple tomorrow. Ezekiel 45. Join me for that, please. Have a blessed day in the Lord.