Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 806, and we have a very short chapter before us today, the shortest psalm in the psalm. The shortest chapter in the Bible, if you regard the Psalms as chapters, it's two verses. Let's pray, and then we'll dig into this wonderful, powerful, short Psalm. Heavenly Father You are worthy of all praise. We ask that you would speak to us through Psalm 117 and write it in our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Psalm 117. Praise the Lord all nations. Extol him all peoples. For great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. Praise the Lord Very straightforward, but a very powerful little psalm. First of all, this psalm begins and ends with hallelujah, praise the Lord. We are to praise Jehovah, praise Yahweh. Praise the one who was and is and is to come, the unchanging, self-sufficient, great I am. The Lord. And so this short psalm has the name of the Lord Yahweh. You see it in all caps, Lord, in English, three times. Three times. Beginning, middle, end, because that's who we are to praise. That's the covenant name of God. That's how God makes himself known to his people. And yet, although this is how God makes himself known to his people, it is all nations. We've said this several times in our time. times in the Old Testament, but God has always had a heart for all the nations. God has always had a heart for the global spread of the fame of his name, the glory of his praise, and the good of his people, and he has a people among all the nations of the earth, among all the peoples of the earth Even from the very beginning, when Abram was called by God, he said, I will bless you and multiply you and make your name great, and through you all the families of the earth will be blessed. This has consistently been God's heart. Some people think, oh, the Old Testament is just about God blessing Israel and then the New Testament we get the church and the Great Commission No, we actually have a great commission for all the nations, even in the call of Abraham. Even in the very first chapter of the Bible, you have a great commission for all the nations. when God makes Adam and Eve in his image and tells them to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. So God wants his image, his likeness, his character multiplied throughout the all the earth. And when people come to know God as the Lord, as Yahweh, as the great I am, as their covenant Lord, they praise him and they extol him. That's what we do when God brings us to himself. And so all nations and all peoples are called to know the Lord. Now why should we praise him and why should we extol him, lift him high, and give him the honor that he is due? Because of two core things. And these things are shown over and over again in the Psalms. For because great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the Lord endures us Forever. God's steadfast love. This is his chesed, the Hebrew word chesed, which is describes God's heart. Toward his people. The Lord, Yahweh, is God's covenant name that He's revealed to His people, and in His name, Yahweh, I am who I am, was where that is rooted from Exodus three. We see that God is self-sufficient and eternally unchanging. He alone defines who he is, and who he is never changes In Chet, we have the heart of God, how God is disposed toward his people, God's heart of love. his people. It's a steadfast love. It's a love that looks upon his people with favor, with justice, with kindness. With kindness, with mercy, with love, with grace, all of God's benefits and blessings flow from His And again, although this is God's heart for his people, it's all nations and all peoples who are called to praise him for this because God has a So not only is his steadfast love, not only does he not treat us as our sins deserve, but he treats us with loving kindness, and we're not going to be able to do it. But also the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. The faithfulness of the Lord is God's covenant keeping Promise keeping reliability. Will God keep his promises? Yes. You see, you could say that God would have a heart for his people that's kindly disposed to us and that wants to treat us with grace and mercy, but then somehow he might fail to keep his promise because he can't do it or you can't figure it out or things intervene or whatever. You all know of people who's had the right heart, the right intentions. But we're not able to follow through on those intentions. In the South, they have an expression, oh bless his heart, or oh bless your heart. And that means I kind of know your heart's in the right place, but you're a little bit off in your thinking or you're not quite able to follow through and get things done. So bless his heart. Oh bless your heart. God is not one who has a good heart toward us, but then is unable to keep his promises. He's steadfast in his love and faith Faithful. His heart toward us is wonderfully kind and gracious and just and merciful, but also his faithfulness endures forever. God never fails to keep a promise. promise. Second Corinthians one twenty tells us as many as are the promises of God, they are yes in Christ. And that is why it is through him that we are So God is faithful forever. His faithfulness endures forever. God is not going to forget a promise and fail to keep it. Sometimes we might make a promise, we might have previous intention of keeping it, but if too much time goes by between the making of the promise and the keeping of the promise, we might forget. God's never going to forget. So even though it's been 2,000 years since Jesus left this world, when he said he's coming back, he is coming back. It was almost 2,000 years before between the time when God called Abram And told him that he was going to bless the whole world through his offspring and the time when he kept that promise and blessed the whole world through the offspring of Abraham, that is Jesus. So God, even over the millennia, generation upon generation, God never forgets his promise And God always keeps his promises, and so we should praise him. We should extol him. We should worship him, and we should have a heart to see the need Nations, the peoples of the world, join us in that praise. Where people in the world are not worshiping Jesus, where people in the world are not worshiping the Lord for his steadfast love and his faithfulness we should be so committed to getting out there and getting the gospel to them and telling them about the Lord and telling them about Christ that they might join us in the praise because this This is what God wills. This little power-packed psalm. Praise the Lord all nations, praise him all peoples, extol him all peoples, for great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. Praise Praise the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are unfailingly great in your steadfast love and in your faithful. You never change. You never lack resources to be able to do whatever it is you will to do, and you have willed good things for your people out of a heart of love and out of precious promises that you keep. In Christ. Thank you. Work through us to spread your gospel to the ends of the earth, to the glory of your name, and to the good of all your people, from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for Psalm 117. Tomorrow we're going to be back in Job for Job 17. Have a blessed day. The Lord.