Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I hope you're doing well, and I hope you're ready to dig into another chapter of God's Word here in Psalm 108. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for Psalms. Your Psalms show us your heart and the heart of your son and the heart that you want for your people. So we pray that we would enter into Psalm 108 with hearts that are prepared by your Holy Spirit to receive your word. and to sing it and live it as your dearly loved children who follow after Jesus, the great psalm singer. It's in his name we pray. Amen All right, Psalm 108. It is a psalm, and it is a psalm of David. My heart is steadfast, O God. I will sing and make melody with all my being. Awake, O harp and lyre, I will awake the dawn. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among The nations, for your steadfast love is great above the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the clouds Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, let your glory be over all the earth, that your beloved ones may be delivered. Give salvation by your right hand and answer me God has promised in his holiness, with exaltation, I will divide up Shechem and portion out the valley of Suchith. Gilead is mine. Manasseh is mine. Ephraim is my helmet. Judah is my scepter. Moab is my wash basin. Upon Edom I cast my shoe. Over Philistia I shout in triumph. Who will bring me? to the fortified city. Who will lead me to Edom? Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out, O God, with our armies. Oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man. With God we shall do valiantly. It is He who will tread down our foes That is Psalm 108. Psalm 108 is such an interesting Psalm. It's a Psalm of David. It's very much a reflection of how David is a man after God's own heart in all the circumstances of life how David desires to glorify God. But then you have like this great joyful praise that bursts out really in verses 1 through 6. And then you have this triumph of God that is promised and declared in verses 7 through 9. And then all of a sudden you have this lament. in verses 10 through 12, this this lament, this outpouring of crying of saying, we're not winning, Lord. We're not being successful here. What's going on? You've rejected us. And then it ends with a voice of confidence with God, we shall do valiantly. It is he who will tread down our foes. So I think Psalm 108 is speaking to those times when We know who God is. We belong to God. We are praising God. We are thankful to God. And yet We're facing difficulties that seem insurmountable beyond us, and yet we know they're not beyond God. And so the fact that we're struggling so deeply, the fact that we're failing so badly, can feel like that God's just forgotten about us, that God's not with us. I think of the Lord Jesus being betrayed, being abandoned by his followers and betrayed by one of his followers. denied by Peter, betrayed by Judas, abandoned by all the rest, except John, who followed at a distance and stayed at the foot of the cross But, you know, the the next the setup here, the next one is Psalm one oh nine, which we looked at a couple days ago, um, is really about the betrayal of Judas. And so that's where I think this sort of fits within the life of Christ is Jesus lived his whole life to the praise of God. Jesus taught others about the nature of God's kingdom. Jesus, more than anyone else who ever lived, was a man after God's own heart. who truly trusted in his father, who truly lived for the glory of God, and yet he agonized in the garden. He sweat drops of blood in agony. His disciples fell asleep. One of his closest disciples showed up later with a band of soldiers and betrayed him with a kiss. while another of his disciples acted impulsively and cut off an ear of the servant of the high priest, and then when Jesus told him to put away his sword, he he denied Christ three times that night. After saying he was ready to go to the grave with him, Jesus faced things that were impossible, but they were the will of God. And he submitted himself to them, and he knew that eventually through God's faithfulness he would see the triumph, he would see the outcome of his soul and be satisfied, which Isaiah 53 talks about And Psalm 110, two Psalms later, he's going to be sat at the right hand of God until God makes his enemies a f footstool for his feet. So the exaltation of Christ is coming, but here is the agony. What does that mean for us? It means for us that we can be praising God, we can be thanking God. We can be living for the glory of God. We can be believing the promises of God, and we can still suffer things that are so hard that we don't understand why they're happening, and we can feel abandoned by God, and we can feel overwhelmed. But God is faithful. We judge God not by our circumstances, but by his promises. We judge our circumstances by the promises of God, not the promises of God by our circumstances. God has said, what are God's promises here? He's promised in his holiness with exaltation. I will divide up Shechem and portion out the valley of Suchath. God is going to divide up, these are places where battles were fought. And where spoil was often one, and God's going to divide that up. Gilead is mine, Manasseh is mine, Ephraim is my helmet, Judah is my scepter. Verse 8 is all about saying, My people are my people. I am with them and for them. They are mine. And then Moab, Edom, and Philistia are the enemies of God. And God says, Moab's my wash basin. It's what I wash my hands in. Upon Edom I cast my shoe. In Middle Eastern culture, if someone throws a shoe at you, it's a it's an insult, right? It's it's a term of derision over Philicia. I shout in triumph. The enemies of God are defeated. The people of God are treasured. The enemies of God are defeated. That's the truth. That's the promise of God. We are heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ. We are more than conquerors through him who loved us. We have an un Corruptible inheritance kept in the heavens for us. We are The children of God. We are close to his heart. If God is for us, who can be against us? No weapon that's formed against us will prosper. We are the beloved of God. And the enemies of God are defeated. They're already defeated. Sin has been wiped out. Satan has been triumphantly defeated at the cross. That's the truth. And yet we can sometimes say, have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out, O God, with our armies We could look around and say the cause of Christianity in America is failing badly The next generation of the church that should be coming up to lead is walking away in unbelief. It looks like we are losing. Is that the truth? No. No, it's not the truth. Because if God is for us, who can stand against it? us. With God we shall do valiantly. It is he who will tread down our foes. And yet he will always do so Not on our timetable, but on his. Not according to our design, but his. Not in answer to our wisdom, but his. And so we have to trust him. We have to trust his promises more than what our eyes can see. We have to judge our circumstances by his character, and not his character by our circumstances. That's the call of the life of faith. It is as simple and as impossible as that. And the only way to do that is by the grace of God as we seek his face and continue to worship him day after day. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are good. The death of Jesus Christ on the cross shows your love for us beyond a shadow of a doubt. And the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead shows your power over death and hell forever beyond the shadow of a doubt. We do not need to doubt your love. We need to look at the cross. We do not need to doubt your power. We need to look at the empty grave. Help us to live our lives in the shadow of the cross and in the light of the empty tomb. We pray this in Jesus' name and for his glory in our lives. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Psalm 108. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.