Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason. Welcome to day 919 as we are in Psalms 133 and 134. We're wrapping up the Songs of a Sense today. The Songs of the Sense is a collection of 15 Psalms. in the middle toward the end of the Psalms, so it's one tenth of the whole, it's fifteen out of the hundred and fifty, and they go from one twenty to one thirty-four. They're sort of situated after the longest psalm in the Bible, Psalm 119. And they're very vital for us as Pilgrims. These are songs that were sung on pilgrimage, a song of ascent, a song of going up to Jerusalem. We are going up to our heavenly Jerusalem. We are through this world as pilgrims, as strangers, we go on our way to Jerusalem. So these are songs for us to sing, songs that tune our hearts to sing His praise, songs that shape us from the inside. Let's pray and ask the Lord to do that today. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word that is true and complete, perfect, that is life-giving by the power of your Holy Spirit. Please write Psalms 133 and 134 on our hearts today. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Psalm 133. A song of ascents of David. Behold how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. It is like precious oil on the head running down on the beard, on the beard of Aaron, running down on the collar of his robes. It is like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountains of Zion. For there The Lord has commanded the blessing, life, for everyone. Psalm 133 is one of three of the Psalms of Ascent that are written by David. And it is not surprising that David would write this psalm, because David appreciated the blessings and the benefits of unity through lessons hard-learned. through basically experiencing the disastrous effects of a lack of unity among God's people. Before David was king, he was a commander of the armies of um Saul, who was the first king of Israel. And he served Saul faithfully, and he wanted to serve Saul faithfully, but Saul was jealous of David and his growing popularity as the women of Israel began to sing, Saul has slain his thousands, but David has tens of thousands, Saul got angry. How could his commander under him have more glory than him? And so Saul wanted to get after David because he knew that David was a threat to his dynasty. He wanted to pass the kingdom on to his son Jonathan and said, keep it within the family. That wasn't God's will. And so Saul fought against God's will, and Saul fought against David. Out of pride, out of selfishness, he rejected God's will and sought his own, and that broke the unity of God's people. as the army of Israel was now chasing one of its most prized commanders, who was with his 300 mighty men. And then years later, when David was king, his son Absalom led a rebellion against him. And led many of the court officials and temple leaders within Jerusalem to overthrow David, who was driven from the city, and went on the run again with his 300 mighty men. Until he had to fight a war to regain the throne. So David, having lived through the pain of disunity, knew better than most How truly good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. He had probably experienced much of that unity among his mighty three hundred men. They had a unity of brotherhood, of fighting together, of living together, of serving together. And that was good, that was pleasant. These two words, good and pleasant. Unity among the brothers is good. It is a moral and a spiritual good. It is ordained by God, it pleases God, and it is pleasant. It's pleasurable to us. We get benefits and blessings when we dwell in unity because we love one another open-heartedly, sincerely. We care for one another. We meet one another's needs. We lift one another up in prayer. We bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. We fulfill all the one another commandments and we receive and give as stewards of God's varied grace. It is good and it is pleasant. when brothers dwell in unity. We're given two pictures here of how good and pleasant it is. The first picture, verse two, it's like precious oil on the head, running down on the beard, on the beard of Perrin, running down on the collar of his robes. This is a picture of the anointing oil for the priest that would be poured out on their head, but yet here, poured out so abundantly that it doesn't just go on their head, but it runs down onto their beard and drips down onto the collar of their robes. It's an abundant blessing of anointing by the Holy Spirit. Anointing for power for ministry, for proclaiming the gospel, for leading God's people in worship, for interceding for others. It is a Special blessing of the Holy Spirit. Then in verse 3, we're given another picture, a supernatural picture of blessing. It is like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountains of Zion. This is an unusual picture. The dew of Hermon. Hermon was a snow-capped mountain in the far north of Israel. It had lots of dew, lots of moisture, snow year round. And the mountains of Zion around Jerusalem were dry. They didn't get nearly as much rain. A much more arid part of Israel. And so it's it's as if this do a permanent was supernaturally falling upon the mountains of Zion. What is due a picture of? Of refreshment. Of quenching of the thirst of the earth. So it's a picture, unity is a picture of Holy Spirit anointing. And refreshment. It's good and pleasant. It glorifies God and it blesses those who receive it. For there, in the unity of God's people, there, the Lord has commanded the blessing. Life forevermore. Jesus said, The world will know That Jesus was sent into the world by the Father when they see God's people, Christians, loving one another. The world will know that we are disciples of Jesus and that Jesus was sent by the Father when we love one another. In the love of Christians for each other, Christians who otherwise would have nothing in common. Educated, white-collar, less educated, blue collar, poor people who are destitute, people from every tribe, tongue, people and nation. United together by the one thing we have in common, Jesus. And living together in unity, meeting one another's needs, teaching each other, helping each other, building for each other, encouraging each other, serving each other. The world sees that and says, what is up with these people? They must have a remarkable thing that unites them and that is real, and that's Jesus. And so life forevermore, the gospel has power, has persuasive power, has credibility when we dwell together in unity. It's a rare thing, but it's something that we need to pray for. It's something that we need to work for. It's something that we need to long for. Because it's work that God can do, and when he does it, it is powerful. Psalm 134. The Song of Ascent, the shortest of the Psalms of Ascents. Come bless the Lord, all you servants of the Lord, who stand by night in the house of the Lord. Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the Lord. May the Lord bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth. Here we come to the culmination of the Songs of the Sense, because we come to the temple itself. To the heart and place of worship and to the servants who worship in the house of the Lord day and night. They stand there. They don't sit, they stand worshiping. They lift up their hands. They bless the Lord. This is the goal of the church. We need the church to be unified, but the purpose of being unified is to glorify God. We are, the Bible tells us, living stones. That are being built together into a living temple where God dwells. Think about that. Living stones, if built together into a living temple, have to be unified. They have to be brought together. And they have to have their purpose, which is to glorify God. A temple's not built for the glory of man, it's built for the glory of God. Its purpose is not to serve any any one of the living stones. And its place is to serve the one who occupies the whole. So we are called to glorify God, to love one another in unity, to worship in spirit and in truth. And in that, we're blessed by the Lord. We're blessed by the Lord, who made heaven and earth, the Almighty Creator and Sustainer of all things, blesses us. As we are unified and as we worship in spirit and in truth. Let's pray for that right now. Heavenly Father, you have made us for yourself. And our hearts are restless until they find their rest in you. You have called us to yourself, and that means you've called us to one another within your church. We belong to you, we belong to one another. We're called a unity. Unity of purpose, unity of life, unity of love and care, and unity of worship. To lift up one voice in spirit and in truth and glorify the God who made us and redeemed us. We are your church. We are your people. Make us one, make us holy. Let us love one another and let us worship and glorify you forever. We pray this, Father, in Jesus' name, and for his glory in the church, now and forever. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Psalms 133 and 134. Tomorrow we're going to go back to the book of Jeremiah. Hope you can join me for that. And I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.