Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day number 670. of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we have come to Psalms 99 through 102. Wait, I just said one chapter per day, but we're doing four today. Well I didn't really put together this reading plan. We're just using a reading plan that another church put together several years ago. And sometimes it covers in the Psalms more than one at a time. This is the first time I think we've had four. So let's pray and dig in together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your glorious love for us. Perfect, steadfast, unfailing. Thank you for your Son, our King and Savior. Thank you for your word breathed out by you for us. Write your word in our hearts, we pray, in Jesus' name. All right, Psalm ninety-nine. The Lord reigns, let the peoples tremble He sits enthroned upon the cherubim. Let the earth quake. The Lord is great in Zion. He is exalted over all the peoples. Let them praise your great and awesome name Holy is He. The King in his might loves justice. You have established equity, you have executed justice and righteousness in Jacob. Exalt the Lord our God. holy is he. Moses and Aaron were among his priests. Samuel also was among those who called on his name. They called to the Lord and he answered them. In the pillar of cloud he spoke to them. They kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them. O Lord our God, you answered them You were a forgiving God to them, but an avenger of their wrongdoings. Exalt the Lord our God and worship at his holy mountain For the Lord our God is holy. Psalm 99 is the holy, holy, holy psalm. The emphasis here in the threefold refrain is that God is holy. Verse 3, holy is he. Verse 5, holy is he, and verse 9, for the Lord our God. Is holy. To say that God is holy is to say that He is absolutely set apart from His creation, transcendent, radiant, and a category by His Himself, without peer or equal, he is holy. It carries with it the idea of absolute purity, of transcendent radiance, of uniqueness. And it is the core attribute of God. And so God's holiness, Psalm 99, tells us is the reason why we should praise him The Lord reigns as the holy king over all creation. He's enthroned upon the cherubim, the four living creatures. That surround his throne and that never stops saying, Day and night, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty. Heaven and earth are full of his glory. He's great, he's exalted, he's great and awesome and holy, and so we We should praise him. We should worship him. He's holy in his justice. He loves justice. He's established equity. He's executed justice and righteousness in Jesus. Jacob, and so we should exalt him, we should praise him, we should worship him because he is holy. Now, worship at his footstool, what does that mean? In the context in which this psalm was originally given and sung, the footstool of God was the Ark of the Covenant, representing the presence of God on earth. The idea was that heaven is God's throne The earth is his footstool, and the place where heaven met earth was at the Ark of the Covenant, where inside was the Ten Commandments written by the finger of God on two tablets of stone. As well as Aaron's staff that butted and the jar of manna that never wore out. But above the top of that ark were the outstretched wings of the cherubim, modeling the cherubim in heaven. And that's called the mercy seat. And once a year the high priest would go in with blood on the Day of Atonement, Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement, would go and sprinkle the mercy seat with the blood of the sacrifice. To make atonement for the sins of the people. Now that blood never actually made atonement. It was just a picture of their ongoing need for atonement. Because it had to be repeated every year. Jesus is the once-for-all sacrifice. He is the Word of God made flesh. He is the incarnation of God. of the law of God. He is the righteousness of God in human form, and he is the one who is the mercy seat. Because he's made satisfaction by his blood, he's made atonement once and for all. And so to worship God at His footstool is to worship at the foot of the cross, to worship through the name of Jesus Christ. Our Savior. Moses and Aaron were among his priests. Samuel also was among those who called upon his name. These men were chosen by God and set apart for his rule, for his purposes. But they were sinful. And yet God forgave them. God was gracious to them, although when they did wrong, there were consequences for those things, but God still forgave them, and that's an encouragement to us. We are priests of God under our high priest the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Holy Spirit abides with us. They have the pillar of cloud, but we have the Holy Spirit and the Word of God in the Bible, where God speaks to us, the statute that He's given us. To us is the complete Word of God. They only had the Old Testament, parts of the Old Testament. We have the complete revelation of God in Holy Scripture. And so all the more reason for us. To worship God. We should make worship the highest priority of our lives. We should make worship reverent and awesome and In the spirit of holiness and not trite not to be an entertainment show. Alright, Psalm 100 is a psalm of thanksgiving A psalm for giving thanks. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come into his presence with singing, Know that the Lord, He is God. It is He who made us, and we are His, we are His people, and the sheep of His power. Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise, give thanks to him, bless his name, for the Lord is God. Good. His steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations. We are to give thanks to God. Why should we give thanks to God? Well, he is God. He's made the whole earth. He's made us. He's made us his. So he's not only made us, But he's then made us his. Step one, he made us, he created us, he's the one who's given us life. He made us in his image. He's given us all of our faculties and all of our of our abilities and all of our blessings, but then he made us his. We are his. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. He's adopted us. into his family as his very own people, his very own prized possession and treasured and beloved ones. And so we should Why else should we give thanks to him? For he is good, and his steadfast love endures forever, his faithfulness to all generations. The goodness of God is his very character. God is good. God is the standard of what it means to be good. He is the definition of good. And his steadfast love, his love Toward his people. That's God's heart toward his people, his covenantal, committed, undeserved mercy, grace, kindness, love Justice, deliverance, his heart for his people endures forever. God's not going to stop loving you next week because you have a bad day. day. God didn't give up on you yesterday when you blew it so badly. His steadfast love endures forever. His faithfulness his faithfulness is the fact that he keeps his promises. He never breaks any of his promises, so he's good in and of himself. He has a heart of love toward his people, and out of that he makes promises that he will never break to all generations. Here we are, three thousand years after Psalm 100 was written, and God is still keeping his promises. From generation to generation, we should give him thanks. Psalm 101 is a Psalm of David. David says, I will sing of steadfast love. Love and justice, bringing together the steadfast love of Psalm 100 and the justice of Psalm 99. I will sing of steadfast love and justice justice to you, O Lord, I will make music. I will ponder the way that is blameless. Oh, when will you come to me? I will walk with integrity of heart within my house. I will not Set before my eyes anything that is worthless. I hate the work of those who fall away. It shall not cling to me. A perverse heart shall be far from me. I will know nothing of evil. Whoever slanders his neighbor secretly, I will be able to do it. destroy. Whoever has a haughty look and an arrogant heart, I will not endure. I will look with favor on the faithful in the land that they may dwell with me. He who walks in the way that is blameless shall minister to me. No one who practices deceit shall dwell in my house, no one who utters lies shall continue before my eyes. Morning by morning I will destroy all the wicked in the land. Cutting off all the evildoers from the city of the Lord. This is the prayer of a righteous king. A prayer of David. David as king is responsible for upholding God's justice. God is holy, and his justice is holy. David is anointed to be king over God's people, and he needs to walk in himself in the way that is blameless? And with integrity of heart, he needs to be careful not to set before his eyes anything that is worthless. We know David didn't actually live up to this psalm, because he did set before his eyes Bathsheba, whom he took as an adulteress, and he was he was the one who had a perverse heart. He was the one who did evil. He He was the one who slandered his neighbor secretly by plotting against Uriah to overthrow him. And so David himself, while his heart was to be a man after God's own heart, while his intention was to live out Psalm 101, he fell short of this. And he does not deserve the honor of being king over God's people forever. But Jesus ultimately fulfilled Psalm 101. Jesus is one who never sinned, never put anything worthless before his eyes, never had anything to do with evil. And Jesus rules as king over God's kingdom forever in absolute faithfulness. Now, how can we walk before him? Because Jesus says that our walk has to be blameless. He who walks in the way that is blameless shall minister to me. I will look with favor on the faithful of the land. Are we faithful? Do we walk in the way that is blameless? Seems obvious that the answer is no, right? But what if the answer is actually no Yes. Oh, not in and of ourselves. No, no, no. But by the grace of God, through the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ that's been fulfilled and applied to us, we are made Faithful in Christ. We walk in the way that is blameless because Jesus said, I am the way. Jesus is the way that is blameless. Verse 6. And so we, walking in the way that is blameless, we, having been made faithful by the faithfulness of Jesus, should be eager to honor God. With every part of our lives, following our righteous King by grace with his righteousness applied to us by the Holy Spirit Alright, one more Psalm one hundred two a prayer of one afflicted when he is faint and poured out pours out his complaint before the Lord. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Let my cry Cry come to you. Do not hide your face from me in the day of my distress. Incline your ear to me, answer me speedily in the day when I call, for my days pass away like smoke And my bones burn like a furnace. My heart is struck down like grass and has withered. I forget to eat my bread. Because of my loud groaning, my bones cling to my flesh. I am like a desert owl of the wilderness, like an owl of the waste place. I lie awake. I'm like a lonely sparrow on the house top. With my drink, because of your indignation and anger, for you have taken me up and thrown me down. My days are like an evening shadow, I wither away like grass. But you, O Lord You, O Lord, are enthroned forever. You are remembered throughout all generations. You will arise and have pity on Zion. It is the time to favor her The appointed time has come for your servants. Hold her stones dear, and have pity on her dust. Nations will fear the name of the Lord, and all kings of the earth will fear your glory, for the Lord appears. Sorry, for the Lord builds up Zion. He appears in his glory. He regards the prayer of the destitute and does not despise their prayer. Let this be recorded for a generation That he looked down from his holy height. From heaven the Lord looked at the earth to hear the groans of the prisoners, to set free those who were doomed to die. I that they may declare and in Jerusalem his praise. and kingdoms to worship the Lord. He has broken my strength in mid-course. He has shortened my days. O my God, I say, take me not away in the midst of My days. You whose years endure throughout all generations, of old you laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands. They will perish, but you will remain. They will all wear out like a garment. You will change them like a robe, and they will pass away, but you are the same. And your years have no end. The children of your servants shall dwell secure, their offspring shall be established before you. Well what is Psalm 102 about? This is a very, very different tone from the other Psalms we've been in, which praising God for His holiness and for His justice. giving thanks to God for his goodness, seeing a picture of the righteous king, but here is a cry of deep distress. Well, this is also a picture of Jesus. The Psalms are the prayer book of Jesus. Jesus is the fulfillment of every psalm, not just the message. Psalms, they all reflect in some way or another his heart. And in this case, it is the heart of Christ as he is suffering. As he is suffering. He's our righteous King, sinless, blameless, perfect, holy. But he suffered He suffered greatly, and he was struck by God. It was pleasing to the Lord to bruise, to crush his son. Why for our sin? And so this whole picture in Psalm 102 of being in distress, of being struck down by God, of being lonely, remember everybody scattered and left Jesus alone. He he was alone when he stood before Pontius Pilate. He was alone when he was condemned to death. He was taunted. He was absolutely, verse 8, taunted and derided by everybody around him who mocked him. Mocked him, who spat upon him, who said, Hail, King of the Jews, in a mocking way, as they put a purple robe on him and then ripped it off of him as they crowned him with a crown of thorns. This is Jesus Suffering, suffering in our place. And yet, and yet, his suffering was the Lord's way of building up Zion. His suffering was the way that the kings of the earth would come to know the glory of the Lord, that nations would come to know come to fear the name of the Lord. How is it that the nations of the world, you know, I'm I'm Scottish and Irish and Scandinavian and Dutch and American. How is it that any of these countries Have come to know the name of Yahweh, the Lord God of Israel. It's through the cross of Jesus Christ, it's through his suffering, through his death. The symbol of the God of Israel is now the cross. That's how nations come Come to fear in the Lord. It's how the kings of the earth come to fear the glory of God. It's how the Lord builds up Zion, his church. It's how a people yet to be created. Here we are, again, some 3,000 years after this psalm was written, and here we are, the people yet to be created, and we are praising the Lord. We are praising the Praising the Lord. Why? Because Jesus suffered for us. Because He suffered and died. We have been redeemed. And restored, because he had his strength broken in mid-course, because he had his days cut short. We are the ones who dwell secure and are established before him. Isn't that wonderful good news? It's a great picture of the cross and of the blessings of the cross. Pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. All four of these Psalms are so rich and so wonderful. Help us to love them and to read them and to pray them and to learn how to sing Sing them and worship you through them because they're given as a gift from you to show us your heart. You are holy, you are just, you are good and kind, you are righteous in all of your ways. Your cross Of the suffering Christ is our way to know you and our way to be established before you forever. You are such a great God. Take our hearts and make them yours, we pray. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Psalms 99-102. We are going to be back in the book of Isaiah tomorrow, Lord willing. Hopefully you can join me for that. Have a blessed day. In the Lord.