Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 883rd day. Together in the Word of God, we're back in the Psalms. We're in the Songs of Ascent. These pilgrim songs that God's people would sing as they made their pilgrimage up to Jerusalem three times a year. And so they are songs of encouragement, songs of pilgrimage. Let's pray as we enter into these Psalms together this morning. Heavenly Father, we love you and thank you For your love for us is our hope, our salvation. It's the ground of our lives. We pray that you would write Psalms 129 and 130 and 131 on our hearts. Help us to sing these in our souls as we identify as your pilgrim people going through a hostile world to our heavenly home. We praise you that we have this calling. In Jesus' name, amen Psalm 129, a song of a sense of going up. Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth. Let Israel now say, greatly have they afflicted me from my youth, yet they have not prevailed against me The plowers plowed upon my back, they made long their furrows. The Lord is righteous. He has cut the cords of the wicked. May all who hate Zion be put to shame and turned backward. Let them be like the grass on the housetops which withers before it grows up with which the reaper does not fill his hand, nor the binder of sheaves his arms, nor do those who pass by say, The blessing of the Lord be upon you, we bless you in the name of the Lord. Psalm 129. God's people have always been a persecuted people in this world We've always been out of step with what the world values, out of line with what the world loves and is pursuing. And God's true people have always refused to play the world's games or to worship the world's idols. And so that has led the world to afflict the people of God. Sometimes this happens within those who call themselves God's people. That if you're striving to be faithful and to follow the Lord and to seek first his kingdom, other people who call themselves Christians will get mad at you. Will harass you because you're not chasing after the idols they're chasing after. And especially if you call out those idols for what they are, they might get mad. Because you're calling them idolaters, you're telling them that what they're pursuing is not actually God's kingdom or God's calling, and so they don't like that. But more often than not, it's the people of God who receive this harassment from the world. It's always been that way. Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth, yet they have not prevailed against me. Paul talks about this beautifully in 2 Corinthians, where he talks about being crushed and perplexed and cast down, but not abandoned, not destroyed, not forsaken. We are loved by God and kept by God. And so the Lord is righteous. He's cut the cords of the wicked. The Lord will only allow so much persecution, only so much affliction. The Lord will guard his own, even if guarding his own involves taking us home to be with himself, where we are beyond the reach of this world's harassment. That is God's prerogative to decide how and when he protects his people, it is God's gracious provision for us as well. The Lord is righteous. He has cut the cords of the wicked. Ultimately this world cannot touch us. The only thing they could do is take our lives in this world. They can't touch our eternal life that is ours in Christ. So that's the first half of the Psalm. The second half of the Psalm turns its attention to those who hate Zion, that is, to those who hate the people of God and is pronouncing the curse upon them. May all who hate Zion be put to shame and turned backward This is not selfish. This is not arrogant. It is simply out of love for God and love for his people, saying those who hate God and hate his people May they be put to shame and turn backward. Like grass on the house tops which withers before it grows up. You know, there seems to be an abundant flourishing of the enemies of God's people, but it's temporary. Even if it lasts throughout their whole life on this earth, it's temporary. There's nothing you can do with it. You don't grow grass on a housetop that you're then going to fill up in your arms with sheaves of grain. No, it just it doesn't have enough root, doesn't have enough soil, it's very temporary So it's a picture of the temporary nature and the futile nature of those who hate God and his people. And then it's the non-blessing. Nor do those who pass by say, the blessing of the Lord be upon you. We bless you in the name of the Lord. So there's a withholding of blessing. Of the blessing of God upon them. You know, judgment from God is in its essence a withholding of the blessing of God. Those who hate God, those who don't want his blessing, they do come under his judgment because they don't want his blessing, and so they don't get what they don't want that's withheld from them. And without God's blessing, you can't have life, you can't prosper, you can't have eternal life, you can't thrive without the blessing of God. And so those who say they hate God and they hate God's people And they don't want God's blessing, they don't want to have anything to do with God, it is withheld from them. We don't say the blessing of the Lord be upon you. We don't bless you in the name of the Lord, and so you're left to your own devices, and left to our own devices, there's only curse There's only a short life of whatever we might accomplish and then eternity without the Lord. That is a sober, sober Psalm. The contrast of the way the world is is the way God's people are. And that's reflected in Psalm 130. Again a song of the sense. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord. O Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits. and in his word I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning. O Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption. and he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. Psalm 130 teaches us. To long for the Lord, to rejoice in the forgiveness of the Lord, and to wait for the Lord The longing for God is in the first two verses. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord, O Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to my pleasure. I'm longing for the Lord. And the biggest thing I'm longing for is for God to be merciful to me because I know that I deserve The same kind of judgment and condemnation that's going to fall on the rest of the world. I at times have been an idolater. I at times have pursued my own pleasure. I at times have neglected and forsaken God and His Word, so I deserve that, and I need mercy from the Lord. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand, but with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. So the longing for the Lord and then rejoicing in the forgiveness of God. And then waiting on the Lord. This is so different. Most of the time, idol worship, as we understand it, which is taking the gifts of God, the created things, the the things of this world, and making them ultimate, trusting in them, looking to them for satisfaction, for pleasure, for power, for peace, is it's caused by a desire for this immediate gratification. I need to have what I want. Now, and I need to figure out how I can get it now. The Lord tells us to wait. Trust him. Trust requires waiting We don't get what we want immediately in this life. We have to hope. Wait in hope. We are forgiven now, and we will receive from the Lord plentiful redemption and full redemption Plentiful is this idea of an abundant and a full redemption. In other words, a day is coming when we will not only be forgiven of our sin, but will be redeemed out of all of our sin, away from all of our sin. into the presence of God, into eternal joy. The morning will come. The day will break. The Lord will be our light and our peace forever, and we are to wait for that. We're to wait. How are we to wait? Well, Psalm 131 gives us instructions of how we are to wait. This is a song of ascent of David. O Lord, my heart is not lifted up. My eyes are not raised too high. I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me, but I have calmed and quieted my soul and Like a weaned child with its mother, like a weaned child is my soul within me, O Israel, hope in the Lord, from this time forth and forevermore. This is how we are to wait. Calm, quiet, and satisfied. And the picture of a weaned child is interesting. A weaned child is one who's no longer getting the immediate satisfaction from his mother that he used to get, but he's content to be with his mother. Out of love. Are there things we don't understand in this life? Sure. Is waiting hard? Yes Is waiting hard sometimes because we can't see the full picture and we don't understand what the Lord is doing. Yes, that is all clearly affirmed in Scripture. But here, Psalm 131 calls us to a humility Not to lift up our heart, not to raise our eyes too high, not to concern ourselves with things that are too great and too marvelous for us. A humility that says, I will wait. on the Lord with contentment, with contentment, and with a desire to be with the Lord As I hope in the Lord. So we suffer the world's affliction, we suffer the world's persecution and disdain. But ultimately the world cannot take what God has given us. We must long for the Lord, give thanks for his forgiveness, hope in the Lord. And as we wait on the Lord, we must wait with humility and contentment and with a desire to just be with the Lord and to realize that the Lord is the one we most need, and He's Given himself to us. Let's pray. Father, you're good to us. Of all the things you could have given us, only one can truly fill and satisfy our souls, and that is you. You've given us yourself. Thank you. Teach us to trust, to wait, to be humble and content. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for these Psalms. I hope they were a blessing to you, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.