Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're back in the Psalms on day six hundred and twenty-seven of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We've come to Psalms ninety-two and ninety-three. So that gives us a good gauge of how far we are through this whole Bible reading project, because there's 150 fifty Psalms and we're at ninety-two ninety-three now and uh we are in the fall season of year two of three. So we're making good progress and God's been good and gracious to us through this Study in his word. Let's pray and ask his help as we dig into these Psalms this morning. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. It is living and active. It is sharper than any two-edged sword. Every part of it is a treasure and a blessing. We pray that you would open our hearts and minds to receive and understand and respond to your word in faith and obedience. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Psalm 92 is a psalm, a song for the Sabbath. It is good to give thanks to the Lord. To sing praises to your name, O Most High, to declare your steadfast love in the morning and your faithfulness by night, to the music of the lute and the harp, to the melody of the lyre. For you, O Lord, have made me glad by your work. At the works of your hands I sing for joy. How great are your works, O Lord! Your thoughts are very deep. The stupid man cannot know. The fool cannot understand this. That though the wicked Sprout like grass and all evildoers flourish, they are doomed to destruction forever. But you, O Lord, you, O Lord, are on high forever. For behold, your enemies, O Lord, for behold your enemies shall perish. All evildoers shall be scattered. But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox. You have poured over me fresh oil. My eyes have seen the downfall of my my enemies. My ears have heard the doom of my evil assailants. The righteous flourish like the palm tree, and grow like a cedar in Lebanon. They are planted in the house of the Lord. They flourish in the courts of our God. They still bear fruit in old age. They are ever full of sap and green To declare that the Lord is upright. He is my rock. There is no unrighteousness in him. Amen. That is Psalm 92. Psalm 92 has this unique title in that it is a song for the Sabbath. And so it is specifically a song for the day of rest and gathered worship. There is a day in seven This is a creation principle woven into the very fabric of creation, even before it was given and written on tablets of stone by the finger of God at Mount Zion, that one day in seven is to be set aside for a day of worship and rest. We rest from our ordinary labors and we worship the Lord. You can even see in verse 2 here a call to the pattern of morning and evening worship on the Sabbath day to declare your steadfast love in the morning. And your faithfulness by night. Um and while it's not like a command, thou shalt have church morning and evening, I do think it's been the pattern of God's people in past generations, up until this generation. to have the regular pattern of morning and evening worship. In this generation, we don't think the worship of God is really all that important. And so we try to schedule it for when it's continued. That's how it works. If you can't make it out, just live stream it from home. We make it a matter of convenience rather than a matter of commitment. The worship of the Lord on the Lord's Day, the Lord's Day is the Christian Sabbath, is should not be a matter of convenience It should be a matter of commitment. Because God is worthy. That's why. Not because the pastor's guilt-tripping you. That's not my point. But because Because God is worthy. For you, O Lord, have made me glad by your work, at the works of your hands. I sing for joy. God's works of creation and redemption. God's works of creating us in his image. of sustaining us day by day, of redeeming us by the blood of his son, of gifting us the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, of of building up his church, of gathering together a people for the praise of his name from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. on earth, the the works of God, the thoughts of God contained in his word, which is read and proclaimed in gathered worship, it is this that should make us glad? That should make us want to sing for joy, and that should make us want to know the thoughts of God as they are read and taught and preached in gathered worship. Fools, stupid people, which is people who ignore God. In the biblical terms, stupid doesn't have to do with your IQ. It has to do with whether or not you ignore God. If you ignore God and protect And so those who don't know, those who don't understand, or those who have hardened their hearts to God And they don't see this truth. What's the truth that they don't see? That even though the wicked sprout like grass and all evildoers flourish, they are doomed to destruction for We live in a world where it seems like wicked people, God haters, atheists, agnostics, deconstruction They flourish. They become celebrities. They get YouTube channels with millions of followers and social media accounts with millions of followers and they sell millions of you know know, concert tickets and and and they're thumbing their nose at God and they're s they're flourishing, but they're like the grass that flourishes but withers when the sun But those who belong to God By grace through faith in Jesus Christ, those who are part of the kingdom of King Jesus, we will flourish like the Palm tree, we will grow like a cedar in Lebanon. We will be planted in the house of the Lord. We will flourish in the courts of our God. And here's a couple verses. that call for multi-generational churches. I love the fact that our church is a multi-generational church We have plenty of people with gray hair and plenty of people who are fresh-faced young ones too, so that the young can see in the old that they still bear fruit. And they are ever full of sap and green. They are ready to testify. They sing the praises of God, they worship together with His people, they declare that the Lord is upright, He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness. So Psalm 92 is really a call for us, even though we're hearing this on a Tuesday morning or whatever day you watch this, it's a call for us to make the commitment. to gather on the Lord's Day, to make that the priority, to gather, to declare the goodness of God's works, to listen to His word, to have His thoughts become our thoughts. And to flourish like those who are planted in the house of God from young to old. Psalm 93 The Lord reigns. He is robed in majesty. The Lord is robed. He has put on strength as his belt. Yes, the world is established It shall never be moved. Your throne is established from of old. You are from everlasting. The floods have lifted up, O Lord, the floods. The floods lift up their roaring, mightier than the thunders of many waters, mightier than the waters of the sea. The Lord on high is mighty. Your decrees are very trustworthy. Holiness befits your house, O Lord, forever. Evermore. Psalm 93 is a short, simple, and powerful Psalm. It was the the first uh well not the very first, but I preached it this summer in this our series, our summer series in the And so it was the first in that series kind of within the summer series. So uh if you want to hear a full sermon on it, you can just go searching through our archives and find But the message of Psalm ninety-three is really very simple and very straightforward and very powerful, and that is there is one true God, the Lord, Yahweh, the great I am, the one who is and was and who is to come the Almighty and Yahweh. He reigns. He reigns in majesty as king, in strength as the Almighty One, from everlasting to everlasting as the one who is and who was and who is to come the Almighty. He may be opposed in his reign, and he is opposed in his reign. Both Psalm 92 and Psalm 93 speak of those who oppose God in his reign. Psalm 92 refers to them as the stupid and the ignorant and the wicked, and Psalm 93 speaks of them in terms of the flood. the the rebellion of mankind against the maker. But God is mightier God is wiser. God is more trustworthy. God is more faithful. God is more powerful. He is mightier. And so he will put down all of those who rise up against him, and those who are in his house. Psalm 92 is about the gathering of God's house on the Lord's Day for worship, and Psalm 93 tells us that those who are in his house Are holy. They've been set apart by God. Holiness befits your house. The house of God is the Church of Jesus Christ, and it is the holy people of God, the saints. Saints means holy ones. Holiness befits your house. Because of God's goodness, because of his might, because of his trustworthiness, because of his power, because of his wisdom, because of his eternity. It is befitting that we be holy even as we've been made holy. That means that we be as committed to God as He has made us His own. Forever. Forever. Forever. Two wonderful psalms for us to consider. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, you reign and you rule without rival, without equal, without true opposition. Oh, there are those who oppose you, O Lord. There are those who lift themselves up against you. There are those who think they're better off without you. There are those who think they can outsmart you, but they are the stupid ones and the ignorant ones. and the temporary ones, the flourishing grass of this world, you reign forevermore. And you reign forevermore in righteousness and in holiness and in faithfulness and in truth. Help us to believe that. Help us to trust you, for you are trustworthy. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Psalms 92 and 93. I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.