Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 490 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. And we come to the Psalms. A Psalm today and a Proverbs tomorrow. Chapter of Proverbs tomorrow. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look at Psalm 73, a very powerful and very helpful Psalm for us. Father in heaven, thank you for Psalm 73. Thank you for the way you've used it in my life to show me my own heart and to grow me. Father, I pray that you would use it in all of our lives today, that you would grow us in Christlikeness and in And our love for you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 73 is a psalm of Asaph. Truly, God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart, but as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped for I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For they have no pangs until death, their bodies are fat and sleek. They are not in trouble as others are. They are not stricken like the rest of mankind. Therefore pride is their necklace, and violence covers them as a garment. Their eyes swell out through fatness Their hearts overflow with follies. They scoff and speak with malice. Loftily they threaten oppression. They set their mouths against the heavens. and their tongue struts through the earth. Therefore his people turn back to them and find fault in them. And they say, How can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the wicked. Always at ease they increase in riches. All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning. If I said I will speak thus I would have betrayed the generation of your children. But when I thought, how to understand this? It seemed to me a wearisome task until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then I discerned their end. Truly you set them in slippery places, you make them fall to ruin How they are destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by terrors. Like a dream when one awakens, oh Lord, when you rouse yourself, you despise them as phantoms. When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart, I was brutish and ignorant, I was like a beast toward you. Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You hold my right hand. You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are far from you shall perish. You put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you. But it is good for me to be near God. I have made the Lord God my refuge, that I may tell of all your works. That is Psalm 73. Psalm 73 is a wisdom psalm. It's a psalm that helps us to grow in the practical matters of how to apply our faith to life. by dealing with some of the harder and uglier aspects of life, but dealing so from the grounded perspective of faith in God and from a knowledge of eternity. So it's it's a wisdom psalm. It helps us to walk in wisdom. It shows us that there are two ways. There are two ways you can live life. There are two paths you can pursue. Jesus called them the broad path to destruction and the narrow way that leads to life. In the book of Proverbs, they're known as Lady Folly and Lady Wisdom. And sometimes the reality is Let's get real. This is a get real psalm. Sometimes the reality is those of us who are on the narrow road to eternal life, who are trying by faith, by God's grace, to hearken to the voice of Lady Wisdom, to walk by faith and not by sight Sometimes we can cast a sideways glance over at those who are on the broad path to destruction, and it sure looks like they're having an awful good time. Looks like they don't have a care in the world. They do whatever they want. They don't have a conscience that seems to bother them at all. They just kind of do what they feel like doing and they seem to be they seem to be doing really well with it. I mean they They seem to be prosperous. They seem to be having having a good time. Plenty of money in the bank. Nice cars in the driveway. Satisfying job, lots of lots of things to keep them busy, lots of lots of accolades, praise of people. And we can look over and we can say Is God really good to his people? I mean, they're mocking God. They go so far as to say, verse 11, how can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High? What's the point? What's the point of following Christ, of living a good life, of walking in wisdom, of trying to be obedient, if they're having a great time? And they don't care about God at all. That's the temptation. That's envy of the wicked, envy of the wealthy and prosperous, godless people. It's tempting, isn't it? It's tempting, but what's the truth Well, ASAP is wrestling to understand the truth, but he can't he can't get it. As long as his eyes are down here, right, on the horizontal plane, looking at his own life, looking at his neighbor's life, looking at his rival's life. As long as he's looking at the people on the narrow road, the people on the broad road, as long as he's locked into a secular mindset, which is a this world only mindset, he cannot figure it out. It's a wearisome task. to try to understand why it is that someone who mocks God seems to be more prosperous, more successful, more at peace, happier, than someone who's following after God and seeking to trust the Lord and honor God with his life. Verse 17 says, until. Until I went into the sanctuary of God, there I discerned their end. When we lift our eyes from the horizontal plane to the vertical, we lift our eyes to the Lord, we worship God. We realize this life is temporary. Eternity is coming. They are in a slippery place. They will be destroyed in a moment. They will be swept utterly away by terrors. When God arouses to judge, he will judge them eternally. So we need to realize how blessed we are. Oh, it can be so easy to envy, it can be so easy to covet, it can be so so easy to become beastly in our perspective. Because if there's no God and there's no eternity, then we do become literally beastly in our perspective. It's just about what you can get and how you can get it for the here and now. Yet the truth is that if we trust in the Lord, not only is their end heading toward destruction, but our present day, verse twenty-three, is that we are continually with the Lord, who holds us. who guides us and who afterward will receive us to glory. That's the truth. Life on the narrow road, following lady wisdom, walking by faith and not by sight, can be hard. We have to struggle and wrestle against the flesh, against the world, against the devil. It's a life of warfare. But here's the truth. We are held by God. We are continually with God. We are guided by the counsel of God. And we will be received into the glory of God. And that is something that is a riches far greater than anything the world can offer. God with us, God holding us, God guiding us, God receiving us. Verse 25, whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. If I have God with me, holding me, guiding me, receiving me, I need nothing else, because my heart and my flesh may fail. But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. So what's the conclusion? Those who are far from God will perish? But for me, it's good to be near God. I've made the Lord God my refuge, that I may tell of all your works. We should rejoice. And how good it is to know God and be known by God, be forgiven by God, be loved by God, be kept by God, be guided by God, be received by God. And we should tell of the great gospel work of salvation that Jesus Let's pray. Father, you are truly good to your own people. The world may not see it or recognize it. Sometimes we may be blind to it. It and not see it or recognize it. But you are truly good to your people. You are with us. You are for us. And we are so thankful. Help us to make you our refuge day by day day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for Psalm 73 tomorrow. We're in the book of Proverbs. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, of course, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord. And it's always a blessed day if you are indeed in the Lord.