Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church Psalms 141 and 142 are on tap for us on day 993 of our three-year journey through the world. Feels like we're getting close to the end. If we're in the Psalm 141 and 142, only 150 Psalms, we are indeed coming down kind of the home stretch of this time in God's Word over these three years. But we have many weeks to go and many days, and so we're thankful for that. Um have 103 days left. Looking forward to every one of them. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help here with these Psalms today. Heavenly Father. Thank you for all that you have done for us. Thank you for your word that is rich and complete and a blessing and a treasure. Please write your word on our hearts. Please speak to us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Psalm 141, a psalm of David. Oh Lord. I call upon you. Hasten to me. Give ear to my voice when I call to you. Let my prayer be counted as incense before you, and the lifting of my hands as the evening sacrifice. Set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth. Keep watch over the door of my lips. Do not let my heart incline to any evil to busy myself with wicked deeds In company with men who work iniquity, and let me not eat of their delicacies. Let a righteous man strike me. It is a kindness. Let him rebuke me. It is oil for my head. Let not my head diffuse it. Yet My prayer is continually against their evil deeds. When their judges are thrown over the cliff, then they shall hear my words, for they are pleasant. As when one ploughs and breaks up the earth, so shall our bones be scattered at the mouth of Sheol. But my eyes Are ever toward you. O God, my Lord, in you I seek refuge, let me not, leave me not defenseless. Keep me from the trap that they have laid for me And from the snares of evildoers, let the wicked fall into their own nets while I pass by safely That is Psalm 141. It's a prayer of David. It falls into this imprecatory psalm category in that David is praying against his enemies. Now he is just in doing so. He calls upon the Lord. He's calling upon the Lord with with uh sincerity, with a desire for righteousness. He wants to be righteous himself before he starts to address his enemies. He he makes it very clear that even more than his concern for his enemies to be dealt with is his concern that he himself would honor the Lord. He prays to the Lord, and he wants his prayer to be acceptable to the Lord, to be as incense before God. He wants he wants his prayer to be counted as an evening sacrifice, as something that the Lord would receive with a gladness He asks for the Lord to watch over his mouth, to keep watch over the door of his lips. He doesn't want to speak anything that is evil, anything that would be a deceitful thing or a misleading thing. And because it's out of the overflow of the heart that the mouth speaks, he moves from his mouth down to his heart, the source of that, and says, Do not let my heart incline to any evil. David desires to honor the Lord. And because he knows that very often our hearts get led astray when we are around people who are working iniquity, he doesn't want to be. busying himself with people who work iniquity. Rather, he would rather have a righteous man Strike him. In other words, if David was given a choice, sit down at the table to eat the delicacies of the wicked And be in their jovial company, right? Go to the party where the wicked people are hanging out and eat the good food, or have a righteous man strike you and rebuke you. He says, I want the righteous man to strike me and rebuke me, because that will help me honor you, Lord. That's how seriously committed he is. I don't want the party, I don't want the delicacies, if it's going to lead my heart away from you. I'd rather have a righteous man strike me and rebuke me. That will be like oil, anointing oil, refreshing oil. Now he turns his attention to the enemies. He says, yet my prayer is continually against their deeds. Whose deeds? The company of wicked men. The ones whose party he doesn't want to be invited to. The one whose table he doesn't want to eat from. He's praying against their evil deeds because they're evil, not just because they don't like him, but because they're evil And he knows that when the judges, the leaders of the ungodly faction, the wicked men, when their leaders are overthrown, thrown over the cliff is not necessarily literally thrown over a cliff, but overthrown, removed from their position of authority, then the people can hear the words of David. Who speaks pleasant words? He speaks the truth. He speaks what will bless people. The wicked are just self-serving As when one ploughs and breaks up the earth, so shall our bones be scattered at the mouth of Sheol. Hmm. We're all going to die. And we all need to be prepared to face God when we die. He says, My eyes are toward you, O Lord my God. In you I seek refuge. He doesn't want to fall into their trap, but he wants them to fall into their own trap. In other words, they're laying a trap for him. And justice would say, if they're laying a trap for him, the most just thing would be for them to fall in it themselves. So this is a this is a righteous way to pray in precatory psalms against evildoers in the world. We have to be sure that they are evildoers. We have to be sure that it's not our heart that's deceived and led astray. We have to be honest with our integrity before God and wanting to honor God with our lives. But then to pray for wicked people to be removed from their position of authority is good because it would bless the people, especially the people of God. If you know that there's a corrupt, misleading self-serving leader of God's people, that person needs to either repent or be removed. And that is an appropriate thing to pray. Lord, let them repent or let them be removed. So that God's people can be well shepherded. And we need to guard our own hearts that we all fall into the same trap ourselves. Psalm 142, David continuing to pray. This is the masculine of David when he was in the cave, a prayer. So when he's being persecuted by Saul and he's hiding out in the cave. Psalm 57 also compares to this. It's also following 141, very similar in that it is this place where he's being persecuted unjustly With my voice I cry out to the Lord. With my voice I plead for mercy to the Lord. I pour out my complaint before him. I tell my trouble before him. When my spirit faints within me, you know my way. In the path where I walk, they've hidden a trap for me. Look to the right and see. There is none who takes notice of me. No refuge remains to me. No one cares for my soul. I cry to you, O Lord. I say, You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living. Attend to my cry. For I am brought very low. Deliver me from my persecutors, for they are too strong for me. Bring me out of prison. That I may give thanks to your name. The righteous will surround me, for you will deal bountifully with me. I love the way that this psalm ends with that note of confident hope and expectation. the Lord will act. David does not boast in his own ability to be clever enough, sneaky enough, politically savvy enough to be able to get the better of his enemies. He simply, straightforwardly, cries out to the Lord and plead for mercy to the Lord. Notice the double call upon the name of the Lord in verse 1. One, the Lord Yahweh, the great I am. This is the covenant name of God. He's calling out to his covenant Lord, the one who anointed him to be king. He's now fleeing from the current king, but he knows who the Lord is. He knows that if God doesn't come to rescue him, he will be without hope. Again, he's not trusting in himself. How often, when we're in a difficult spot, how often is it our first impulse to think, what can I do to get out of this? What do I have to say? What do I have to do? How can I control this? How can I spin this? How can I make this work to my advantage? That is terrible to even think that way. If we find ourselves in a difficult situation, we need to do what David did here. Cry out to the Lord. Look to him. Pour out our hearts before him. Say, You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living. We have no hope except that God would be on our side. But, as David ends Psalm 142 with this hopeful expectation, so we need to. The Lord is on our side. The Lord is with us. The Lord is for us. He is our covenant Lord, which means He will not change. He will not abandon His promises. He will not leave us. And at the end of it, we will be surrounded by the righteous. Even if our deliverance doesn't come in this life, at the end of it all, we will be surrounded by the righteous in the new heavens and the new earth. And God will deal very bountifully with us. We will be richly repaid for any suffering that we've endured for his sake. So we can have confidence, even as we're desperately without help at a human level because God's help never fails. Let's pray. Father, we love you. You are for us. You've shown that most clearly in giving your son Jesus for our salvation To secure us for yourself, you gave your one and only Son, who gave his life to deliver us. We are thankful. We praise you. Lord, be with us. Help us to walk by faith and not in fear. Help us to walk in dependence upon you, not self-reliance. Help us to cry out to you throughout the day when the enemy strikes. We believe, we know, we trust that we will look upon the face of our Lord in the land of the living, surrounded by the righteous. Where you will deal abundantly with us forever and ever. Thank you for that sure and unshakable hope that is ours in Jesus Christ, the firstborn from the dead, the first fruits of the resurrection, our Lord. Amen. Amen. Well, that's Psalms 141 and 142. Wonderful prayers for us. We need them in a fallen world. We're going to go back to Ezekiel tomorrow. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.