Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On our 931st day together in the Word of God, we come to Psalms 135 and 136. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are your people by your grace and for your glory. So may we glorify you as we think about you, as we think about our worship of you, as we think about what you are due. May we give you the praise. And the honor from our hearts, with our lips, with your people that you deserve. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Psalms 135 and 136. Psalm 135. Praise the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Give praise, O servants of the Lord, who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God. Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good. Sing to his name, for it is pleasant, for the Lord has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel as his own possession, for I know that the Lord is great. And that the Lord is above all gods, whatever the Lord pleases he does in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all deeps He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth, who makes lightnings for the rain, who brings forth the wind from the storehouses. He it was, who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast, who in your midst, O Egypt, sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants, who struck down many nations and killed mighty kings. Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan, and gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to his people Israel Your name, O Lord, endures forever. Your renown, O Lord, throughout all ages, for the Lord will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants. The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths but do not speak, they have eyes but do not see, they have ears, but do not hear, nor is there any breath in their mouths. Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them. O House of Israel, bless the Lord. O house of Aaron, bless the Lord. O house of Levi, bless the Lord. You who fear the Lord, bless the Lord. Blessed be the Lord from Zion, he who dwells in Jerusalem Praise the Lord. That is Psalm 135. So that is Psalm 135. Greatness Praise Psalm calling on the people of God to praise the Lord and especially focused on the history of God's redeeming work among his people. So um Not all of the Psalms are praise hymns, but this is certainly a praise hymn. Directly and repeatedly calling upon the people of God to praise the Lord. What does it mean to praise the Lord? Well it means to declare how great He is. His character and his actions to magnify his name. Praise the Lord, praise the name of the Lord. What does that mean, name? Does that mean Just the actual the Lord, Yahweh, Yehovah. No, it means all the ways in which God has disclosed Himself, God's self-revelation, the way that God has made Himself known. And God has made himself known by his character, by his self-disclosing of his character, which we can see in his word. and in the works of creation and providence redemption. So we see God's self-disclosure of his character in his word. He declares to us who he is. He is good. He is pleasant, his name is pleasant, he is great, he is above all gods, he does whatever he pleases. He tells us these things about himself so that we will praise his name but also in creation, in the work of creation. He does whatever he pleases in heaven or on earth, in the seas, in all deeps. who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth, who makes lightnings for the rain, brings forth the winds from storehouses. This is the work of creation and of providence over the creation. So God created the whole world, but God rules over the whole world, and God rules over the natural world. Hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, snowstorms, blizzards. suffocating heat such as we've been experiencing lately. All of these things are under the direct control of the Lord. He's great He's above all gods, he does whatever he pleases, in heaven or on earth. So we praise him for what he's declared about himself and also what he's shown of himself in the works of creation and providence, but then also redemption, the redemption of his people. He struck down the firstborn of Egypt. This is referring to the Passover and the deliverance out of Egypt. And so he brought his people out of Egypt, and then he struck down kings and brought them into the promised land, gave the land of the Canaanites to his people as a heritage. We need to praise God in the same way. We need to focus our worship not so much on our felt needs nor on how we feel about God. Like a lot of times, modern praise and worship is Christians praising how they feel about God. Oh how much I love you. Oh how my heart yearns for you. Oh how I long for you. Oh how oh how I You know, oh how I need you. And okay, there are certainly psalms that express things like that, but but the focus of praise is on God on who he is, on who he's declared and revealed himself to be, and how we see him in creation, in providence, and in redemption. And so your name, O Lord. Endures forever. Your renown, O Lord, throughout all generations. There's been a calling upon the people to praise the Lord, and now it's praising the Lord in 13 and 14. You. You, O Lord Your name endures forever. You're renowned throughout all ages. And here we sit as evidence of that. We're gathered here in 2024, as this is being recorded, we're some three thousand years after the Psalms Many of the Psalms were written and we're still praising the Lord throughout all ages, for thousands of years, for generation upon generation. The Lord has continued to vindicate his people, he's continued to have compassion on his servants. By contrast The idols of the nations are nothing. Silver, gold, work of human hands Nothing man-made, nothing in the creation can in anywhere in any way compare to the Creator The most ridiculous thing is for we who bear God's image and who are called to worship and magnify and praise the Creator. for us to instead worship and value the creation of the creation, which is what all man-made things are. So if we like cars or sports or politics or a job or career or money or materialism, all of that is worshiping the creation of the creation, the sub-creation. Rather than the creator who is blessed forever. And make no mistake, you become like what you worship As we praise the Lord, as we magnify his name, as we meditate on his character, as we extol him for his works, we are made into his image by his grace, by his Holy Spirit. But if we give our hearts to idols, If we give our devotion to subcreation, we become like the subcreation. Powerless, mute, impotent, enslaved. lifeless. We become less human. And so the return of the refrain is to bless the Lord, bless the Lord, bless the Lord. Bless the Lord fourfold. What does it mean to bless the Lord? It means to say what is true about God. When God blesses us, He speaks a good word concerning us, and His word is powerful enough to make that good thing happen. When we bless the Lord, we speak a good word about the Lord because it is already true. We can't make anything happen for God, but we're just saying of God to bless is to speak well of. God speaks well of us and his word is powerful enough to bring that thing to be. We speak well of the Lord because it is true and we need to hear it. We need to hear one another We say it to each other, house of Israel, house of Aaron, house of Levi, you who fear the Lord. We say it to one another. We bless the Lord. Alright, Psalm 136. Give thanks to the Lord. So Psalm 135, praise, blessing. Psalm 136, thanksgiving Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of gods, for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the Lord of hosts, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who alone does great wonders, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who by understanding made the heavens for his steadfast love endures endures forever. To him who spread out the earth above the waters for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who made the great light for his steadfast love endures forever. The sun to rule over the day, for his steadfast love endures forever. The moon and stars to rule over the night for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, for his steadfast love endures forever, and brought Israel out from among them, for his steadfast love endures forever. With a strong hand and an outstretched arm, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who divided the Red Sea in two, for his steadfast love endures forever And made Israel pass through the midst of it, for his steadfast love endures forever. But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea. For his steadfast love endures forever. To him who led his people through the wilderness, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who struck down great kings for his steadfast love endures forever, and killed mighty kings for his steadfast love endures forever. Sihon, king of the Amorites, for his steadfast love endures forever. And Og, king of Bashan, for his steadfast love endures forever. and gave their land as a heritage for his steadfast love endures forever. A heritage to Israel his servant for his steadfast love endures forever. It is He who remembered us in our low estate for His steadfast love endures forever, and rescued us from our foes, for His steadfast love endures forever, who gives food to all flesh. For his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of heaven for his steadfast love endures forever. This is a corporate song of thanksgiving and praise to God. So praise, we say how great God is, and to give thanks to Him. We we thank him for how great he is and how good he's been to us. And remember I said it's the name of the Lord is God's character, what God has disclosed about who he is. The steadfast love of the Lord, the Hasset of the Lord. is the very heart of God toward his peoples. Which repeated in every single verse of this psalm over and over And over and over and over again, as my middle school German teacher would tell me, repetition is the muzzle of learning. Over and over again, his steadfast love endures forever because we need to know That at the very heart of God is his facid toward us. And it never ends. His heart toward us never turns, his heart toward us never fades, his heart toward us never wavers. It endures forever, and for that we give thanks. But did you catch the themes that are being repeated from Psalm 135? In addition to the very character of God, which is here summarized in this wonderful Hebrew word Hesed Who is God? He's good. He's the God of gods. He's the Lord of Lords. That's who he is, right? And then what has he done He's done great wonders. What kind of wonders? Wonders in creation. Wonders in providence. Wonders in redemption That's what the focus was on, right? The creation. He spread out the earth, he made the great lights, he made the sun, he made the moon and the stars, all creation, right? But then providence and redemption. These are the things we need to meditate on. We need to go outside and look up at the stars and don't just say, wow, how cool, but say, thank you, Lord, that you spread the stars across the heavens, for you are great. We need to go outside and see the animals, the bunny rabbits that we have all over our yard, or the deer that come through. We need to not just say, Oh cool, look at the deer, oh cool, look at the rabbits, but We praise you, O God, that you have made these beautiful animals to enjoy your creation and for us to enjoy. We need to think about the redemptive history. that God has had with his own people, bringing them out of Egypt, bringing them into the promised land, but then ultimately going to the cross and Jesus redeeming us at the at his own the price of his own blood on the cross and then his faithfulness to his people throughout church history, raising up great reformers and great revivalists and great preachers and great missionaries Because this is all God's work. It's all God's work. And he's worthy to be praised and he's worthy to be thanked for it. the Word of God. Here is a contrast today to give us fuel to joyfully, enthusiastically, and very optimistically, because we know that God will accomplish His purposes, that we can give thanks to the God of heaven for his steadfast love endures forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, there is no one like you, for you are the creator and the sustainer of every We thank you that your heart toward us is steadfast love, is loving kindness, is a committed Determination for our good and for your glory through redeeming us. What a wonderful God you are. How worthy of praise you are. How good it is for us to praise you. you. Help us to praise you every day of our lives, to give thanks to you for all your goodness to us. In Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Psalms 135 and 136. Tomorrow we're going to head back to the prophet Jeremiah. Have a blessed day in the Lord, a day of praising the Lord.