Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason V. It's good to be with you. And we are here on our 859th day in the Word of God, and we are in the Psalms. Back to the Psalms of a Sense, looking at Psalms 1 126 to 128 today. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for calling us on a holy pilgrimage through this life to the holy city, to the new Jerusalem. to our heavenly home and to your presence. Father, as we are on our pilgrimage, we pray that you would renew our faith day by day And that you would help us to walk according to your word and by the power of your spirit and by faith, trusting in Christ. Speak to us now through these Psalms and renew our hearts in Jesus we pray Psalms one twenty six to one twenty eight. We'll go through these one psalm at a time. Psalm one twenty six, a song of ascents. When the Lord restored the Fortunes of Zion. We were like those who dream, that our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy. Joy. Then they said, Among the nations, the Lord has done great things for them. The Lord has done great things for us. We are glad. Restore our fortunes, O Lord. like streams in the Negev. Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy. He who goes out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come Psalm 126. Now Psalm 126 is a psalm that celebrates the restoration to to the promised land from a period of exile, the Babylonian exile. Right now on Sunday mornings at Forest Hill, we're in the the second part of Isaiah, that that part from Isaiah forty to sixty six that's mostly aimed at the uh Jewish people in exile, those are who are in the Babylonian exile and trying to renew their hope and get them to move away from their idols. and look forward to coming back. Now this psalm is written after they come back. And that's what's referred to in this opening stanza. When the Lord restored the fortune That means when the Lord restored us from exile and brought us back into the promised land, we were like those who dream. decades a lifetime they had been restored. It was almost too good to be true. They were so thankful. For us as believers today, we can We can use these opening verses to think back upon our salvation. When the Lord brought us out of exile, out of Estrangement, out of alienation, out of the bondage of captivity to sin, and brought us into his kingdom, into the Jerusalem that is the church. And the kingdom of God into a right relationship with Him. Eternal life given freely as a gift. Purchased by Jesus, the Lord has done great things for us, and we are glad. And yet, even when the Jewish people were returned out of exile, Back into the promised land, there was much work to be done. There was much devastation, there was much poverty. They they needed to sow and to reap and to irrigate and to rebuild. They needed God to be gracious to them in the promised land to build up the the cities and to build up the temple and to build up Jerusalem. They needed the Lord to bless them. They were sowing in tears as they saw the devastated land And yet there's a promise that those who sow in tears will reap with shouts of joy, that the one who goes out weeping bearing In our life as believers, we have periods of dryness, periods of barrenness, periods of God asks us to keep sowing. God promises us that whatever we sow, we will also reap. If we sow to the flesh we'll reap destruction. If we sow to the Spirit, we'll reap eternal life. We need to sow to the Spirit, sow the Word of God, sow faith in God's Promises And even though now it may be sowing in tears, now it may be going out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, now it may be wondering how long, O Lord, there will come a harvest of joy A harvest of peace, and then ultimately the final harvest when Jesus returns again. We have that promise. And so we can say, as believers The Lord has done great things for us and we are glad. We can cry out to God, restore our fortunes, O Lord. Like streams in the Negev, the Negev is a southern uh desert area that would get Some seasonal rains and dry valleys would become rivers during the times of seasonal rain. So let the dry areas of my life become flowing with your spirit, flowing with your spirit. And keep sowing and keep waiting because God has not finished. God calls us to trust in Him in the dry times of the Barren times in the times of sowing, in the times of fallow fields, to await the harvest that he will bring. Written by Solomon. So as a collection, the Song of the Saints were put together after the restoration from the Babylonian exile when the pattern of the yearly pilgrimages to the three the yearly feasts of Passover, Pentecost and Tabernacles was being re-established, or maybe perhaps sometime after it had been re-established. We know that because some of these Psalms clearly come out of the post exile community. That re returned to Israel to to Jerusalem and to Judah after the exile. But that doesn't mean all the Psalms are written at that period. And Solomon wrote this Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. And that would be very important for God's people to Here because they needed to rebuild the temple, or perhaps they had rebuilt the temple. Solomon was the original builder of the original temple, and he said, unless the Lord builds the house, Those who build it labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain. It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil, for he gives Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the room womb a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children of one's youth. Blessed Now in Hebrew poetry the middle of the poem is a very important And so too in collections of poetry, and this is the Songs of a Sense is a collection Of Psalms. And Psalm 127 is the central psalm in the collection, which goes from 120 to 120. 134. This is the central psalm. And the last line of verse 2, for he gives to his beloved sleep, is the central Central line. These are pilgrim psalms. Pilgrims are looking for rest. Pilgrims are looking for home. Pilgrims are looking for a destination where they can go and be at peace. Peace, right? And so God gives his beloved sleep. That means God gives his beloved peace. We're called to labor, we're called to watch We're called to work, right? We are called to these things. We're called to labor, to build, we're called to watch, we're called to go out and work. But Unless God builds, unless God watches, unless God gives. It's all for nothing. We cannot build Get application. We cannot build the Church of Jesus Christ. We cannot build the kingdom of God. Not on our own. But we are called to labor, but God must Build the house. We are called to keep watch over our doctrine and our life. We are called to keep watch over the church and its mission, its work, and yet the Lord must watch over. His church. The Lord must watch over our families. The Lord must watch over our doctrine and our life. He must guard us. We are called to work, but we're not called to be angry. We are not to be anxious because it ultimately doesn't depend on us, but on the grace of God. Does that mean we don't have a part to play? No, it means we We do have a part to play, but our part is made effectual, it's made fruitful, it's made to stand, it's made to be what God wants it to be by his grace. Children are the gift of God. This is true of physical children as well as spiritual children that come in through the church, those who come to know the Lord through the ministry. Of the church or through our sharing of the gospel or our making of disciples, children, descendants, physical, spiritual, their gift of God. Their gift of God That He gives by His grace, and we're blessed to receive them. And that should be the goal of the church. The goal of the church should be to see the next generation brought up to know the Lord. And for many who do not know the Lord to be brought in to know the Lord, that's how the church grows. This summer at Forest Hill, we're going to be doing some outreach efforts. Reaching out to people walking on the Mompaw Trail, reaching out to people who live in an apartment complex near us, reaching out to people through a family movie night, reaching out to people People are coming to know him as Lord and Savior. And so I I pray and I hope that you, if you're part of Forest Hill Family, would want to be a part of these efforts. Would want to be a part of this. And if you're not part of Forest Hill Family, would you pray for us? That the Lord would build the house, that the Lord would bring the children, that the Lord would bring the increase. Psalm 128. Another song of Ascents. Blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways. You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands. You shall be blessed, and it shall be well with you. Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house, your children will be like olive shoots around your table. Behold, thus shall the man be Be blessed who fears the Lord. The Lord bless you from Zion. May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life. May you see your children's children Peace be upon Israel. Psalm 128 pronounces the blessing that is being sought for in 126. That we're trusting God for in 127. Now it comes in 128. You see, there's a progression to these things. As we seek the Lord, as we look to Him for our As our eyes look to him like the eyes of a servant to the hand of the Master, as we trust in Him, as we know that He's the The one who must build the house and who must guard the city. As we as we anticipate his goodness, he comes through and he's The picture of blessing is primarily one of fruitfulness. Fruitfulness. We know that Jesus said, I am the vine And you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is who will bear much fruit. We know the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness. Goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control. We want this fruitfulness in our own lives, in the life of our church, in the life of our families. We want to see the Lord at work to bring spiritual fruit, fruit that lasts, the fruit of the spirit, the fruit of new disciples, the fruit of a growing Growing church, the fruit of an expanding kingdom of God to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. And if we fear the Lord, if we seek the Lord, if we seek the prophet, Prosperity of Jerusalem, that is the prosperity of the church, God will bless us. God will bless us, and we will give him the praise. Let's pray. Father, thank you for these Psalms. They're so simple, they're so clear, they're so direct, they're so earnest. And so we look to you. You must build your church at Forest Hill and other faithful churches, where your gospel is preached, where your word is proclaimed, where Jesus is lifted up, where disciples are made. Where the love of Christ is shared. You must build the house, or we labor in vain. You must keep watch over us in our darkness And our life and our worship and our witness. And we trust you, we look to you, we need you. We ask that you bless us and keep us and grow us for your glory that we might praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining us for Psalms 126 to 128. We are going to be turning back to the Gospel of John. No, not John. Book of Ecclesiastes tomorrow. We're not going to get to John for John 11's waiting. It's there in a couple more days. But tomorrow, Ecclesiastes 9 and then 10. Have a blessed day in the Lord.