Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're back in the Psalms today, picking up with Psalms 139 and 140. Psalm 139 is a very familiar and much loved psalm, and in my life it's probably my second favorite psalm in order of my life after the 23rd Psalm. I've loved the 23rd Psalm since I was a a kid. Picked up a love for Psalm 139 in high school, and it's been one of my favorites since then. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into his word together this morning. Father in heaven. You are so good to us. You love us. You are with us. You are for us. You never leave us or forsake us. You do not turn your back on us. You do not treat us as our sins deserve. But you are steadfast in your love. and constant in your presence, and we thank you. We pray that you would speak to us through Psalms 139 and 140 today. Write them on our hearts and help us respond to you in faith and love and obedience. In Jesus' name, amen Alright, Psalm 139. To the choir master, a psalm of David, O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up, you discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord. You know it altogether. You hen me in behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it Where shall I go from your spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night, even the darkness is not dark to you. The night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. For you formed my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you. For I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them the days that were formed for me when as yet there was none of them How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them If I would count them, they are more than the sand. I awake, and I'm still with you. Oh, that you would slay the wicked, O God. O men of blood, depart from me. They speak against you with malicious intent. Your enemies take your name in vain. Do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with complete hatred. I count them my enemies. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there is any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. That is Psalm 139. Psalm 139 is a wonderful celebration of the Lord's intimate knowledge of us. and ever-abiding presence with us and his disposition for us. He is powerful. He is everywhere with us. He is always for us. From before we were born, through all of our days and into eternity. The Lord has searched us, and He's known us. That is, he knows us better than we know ourselves. He knows us in every stage of our lives, lying down, rising up. He knows us from beginning to end, from morning, noon, and night. He even knows our thoughts from far off. Sometimes we don't even know our own thoughts. But the Lord searches us out. He's acquainted with all of our ways, all the words we say before we even say them. And his hand is upon us. He protects us. He keeps us It's so wonderful to think that the God of the universe, the God who framed the universe, the God upon whose word worlds hang In order, life springs forth from his word. He knows us. He's with us. He is for us. Can we flee from this God? Sometimes we may be tempted to. We may be tempted to try to run away from God, hide ourselves from Him Escape him because he is holy. And we are sinful. And our rebellious hearts might say, oh, maybe I can flee from God. No, we cannot flee from him. But he's with us and for us. His right hand holds us. His hand leads us wherever we go. Wherever we go, even if we were to go beyond this world, up into heaven or down into Sheol, he's with us. We can't hide from him in the darkness because darkness isn't dark to God. He sees everything perfectly. He knows us perfectly. He made us. His knowledge of us comes from the fact that he's the one who fashioned us and framed us. Fearfully and wonderfully made we are We're not an afterthought. We're not a cosmic accident. We're not the product of random chances of evolution. We are the handiwork of God. His beloved masterpieces, and he loves us. He's written every day of our lives in his book, not just counted them, but written them. Verse 16. In your book were written every one of them the days that were formed for me. When as yet there was none of them. Your life is not an accident. There's not a random series of accidental happenstance that are happening to you. A series of unfortunate events, as one book series put it. Some people think that that's kind of what life is. Life is not that. Life is not meaningless. It is not a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing, as Shakespeare famously wrote. No. Your life story is a purposeful one. Written in love and with wisdom by the Master's hand. God's thoughts toward you, verse 17, are precious and vast. You can't count them all. The precious thoughts God has toward you When you awake in the morning, God is still with you. No matter how wicked you've been, no matter how rebellious you've been, no matter how hard-hearted and foolish and selfish you've been, when you awake in the morning, God is still with you. Knowing God in this way, knowing that He's with us and that He's for us and that His knowledge of us is so deep and intimate, knowing that He is, as we Saw yesterday in Psalm 23 that He's our good shepherd who's always with us, knowing that God is always with us, to fill us with a sense of wonder and worship. Should fill us with a deep desire to see God honored in the world. We look around the world and we see wicked people. People who hate God, people who have malicious intent when they speak against God, people who take God's name in vain and who hate God. We are filled with a righteous indignation for the glory of God's name, not for our own personal inconvenience, but for the glory of God's name. And we stand against those who stand against God. And finally, knowing how much God knows us already. should lead us to want God to know us more. Because if God knows us so perfectly well and He never leaves us and He's always for us, we should be very open to God searching us and knowing us more, trying us. testing us and leading us in the way everlasting or as Psalm 23 puts it in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. We should want to be led by this great God who knows us so perfectly well. That's Psalm 139. Psalm 140 is also written to the choir master, a psalm of David. And here David is expanding upon what was in Psalm 139, the hatred for the activity and the influence of evil men. Psalm 140, Deliver me, O Lord, from evil men. Preserve me from violent men who plan evil things in their heart and stir up wars continually. They make their tongues sharp as a serpent's. and under their lips is the venom of asps, Saila. Guard me, O Lord, from the hands of the wicked. Preserve me from violent men who have planned to trip up my feet. The arrogant have hidden a trap for me, and with cords they have spread a net beside the way that they have set for me, Selah. I say to the Lord, You are my God. Give ear to the voice of my pleas for mercy, O Lord. O Lord, my Lord, the strength of my salvation. You have covered my head in the day of battle. Grant not, O Lord, the desire of the wicked. Do not further their evil plot, or they will be exalted, Sayyallah. As for the head of those who surround me, let the mischief of their lips overwhelm them, let burning coals fall upon them. them, let them be cast into fire, into miry pits, no more to rise. Let not the slanderer be established in the land. Let evil hunt down the violent man speedily. I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted and will execute justice for the needy. Surely the righteous shall give thanks to your name, the upright shall dwell in your presence. Psalm 140. So David here is this is really a continuation from Psalm 139 of David's intimate relationship with the Lord and being known by God and knowing God. He wants to be delivered and guarded. See those two please? Verse 1, deliver me. Verse 4, guard me. Because the more we know God and the more we love God, the more dismayed we are by the kind of world we live in and by the kind of people who are in the world. Evil men, the wicked, violent men. Those who plan evil things in their hearts, those who have venom under their lips, those who are arrogant And who lay a trap. And we need the Lord to deliver us and guard us. Why? Because He is our God. Verse 6, I say to the Lord, to Yahweh, you are my God. And then verse 7, O Yahweh, my Lord. Here we have all three of the names of God common in the Old Testament. Yahweh, you are my God, my Elohim, my mighty one. Oh Yahweh, my master, the strength of my salvation. Salvation? Yeshua's the name of Jesus. God is our God. God is our master. God is our Savior. Therefore, we need Him to deliver us and to guard us from the world that is so evil. And we want God to not grant the desires of the wicked and allow their evil plots to stand, because the wicked are planning evil against the people of God. And we, of course, do not want that evil to stand. We want God's word to stand. We want God's purposes to stand. We know that God will maintain the cause of the afflicted and will give justice to the needy. So instead of the evil plot of the wicked, we want God To do what God does, and that is to maintain the cause of the afflicted, establish justice for the needy, to uphold the righteous, that the righteous may give thanks to your name. and may dwell in your presence. Psalm 140 is another opportunity to do something that's a good exercise to do in the Psalms, and that is the main point of a psalm He's usually in the middle, and here it's a plea. Got 13 verses, two lines each. So verse 7 Which has got six before it, six after it. O Lord, my Lord, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle. This is David as a righteous one, an adopted son of God, who's speaking to Yahweh as my Lord and is saying, You're the strength of my salvation, you've covered my head in the day of battle. That's the anchor, that's the center point. And then you look at the beginning and the end. Beginning, deliver me, O Lord, from evil men, preserve me from violent men, and at the end, surely the righteous shall give thanks to your name. the upright shall dwell in your presence. So we begin with distress and a plea for deliverance. We're anchored in the truth that the Lord is our Lord and the strength of our salvation, the one who covers us. protects us in the day of battle, and then we end with the conclusion that we will be in the presence of God when all is said and done, because by grace we have been made righteous and upright through the righteousness of Christ our Sonic. So, Psalm 139 reminds us that God knows us perfectly intimately well, is with us always continually, that He is for us. That he's written our lives, that he's formed our being, that he guards our ways. And Psalm 140 reminds us that he protects us against evil and he will bring us all the way home Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the good news that we find in these Psalms today. Thank you that you are with us and for us. Thank you for Emmanuel, our Savior. God with us, Savior from our sins, the one who makes us righteous by your grace. Thank you that in Christ you are for us. You cover our heads in the day of battle, and we will one day behold your face. We rejoice in you This truth. And we long to live it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thanks so much for joining me for Psalms 139 and 140. Tomorrow we're going to be back in the book of Ezekiel. Looking forward to that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.