Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and it is day 895 Closing in on 900 days that we have been together in God's Word, and we're here at Psalm 132, another wonderful song of ascents. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we make our pilgrim journey through this world to our heavenly home in Jerusalem on high with you. As we await the return of our King from the heavenly Zion, may we be faithful pilgrims, and may we sing the songs in Zion in this foreign land. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Psalm 132. Psalm of a sentence. Remember, O Lord, in David's favor, all the hardships he endured, how he swore to the Lord and vowed to the mighty one of Jacob, I will not enter my house or get into my bed. I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids until I find a place for the Lord, a dwelling place for the mighty one of Jacob. Behold, we heard of it in Ephraim, we found it in the field Arise, O Lord, and go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might. Let your priests be clothed with righteousness, and your saints shout for joy. For the sake of your servant David, do not turn away the The Lord swore to David a sure oath, from which he will not turn back. If your sons keep my covenant and my testimonies that I shall teach them, their sons also forever shall sit on your throne. For the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his dwelling place. This is my resting place forever. Here I will dwell For I have desired it. I will abundantly bless her provisions, I will satisfy her poor with bread, her priests I will clothe with salvation, and her saints with will shout for joy. There I will make a horn to sprout for David. I have prepared a lamp for my anointed, his enemies I will clothe with shame, but on him his crown will Will shine. I wonder if we spent enough time in the Psalms together that you are able to already see this, even as I've just read it, as you're already able to see it in a Christ-centered way. As being about the gospel and the church, and God keeping his covenant promise to David in Christ for the joy of his people. Did you see that? Well, let's walk through it together. Remember, O Lord, in David's favor, all the hardships he endured. So David was the one who brought the Ark of the Covenant up to the city of David. And he wanted to build a temple for the Lord. It was in his heart. He gathered up lots and lots of treasure. He gave lots of treasure from his own house, and he said, I'm gonna find a resting place For the Lord. I'm going to find a dwelling place for the mighty one of Jacob. Well then they had to find the Ark of the Covenant. It had been put in someone's home, and they went and found it. And they said, Let's let's take the Lord, his footstool, that's it represented in this ark, and let's take it up to Jerusalem. And then we have this line that's repeated twice. It's here in verse nine, it shows up again. later in the psalm, let your priests be clothed with righteousness and let your saints shout for joy. We'll be coming back to that in a minute. But for the sake of your servant David, do not turn away the face of your anointed one. Anointed one is Messiah, Mashiach. Do not turn away the face of your anointed one. The Lord has sworn to David a sure oath. Here's the Davidic covenant. One of the sons of your body I will set on your throne. This is the Davidic covenant that God made with David in 2 Samuel 7 and 1 Chronicles 17. It is to be unbroken And it's ultimately fulfilled in Christ. And then the Lord says of Zion, this is where I'm going to dwell. This is where my And here, again we get the repetition, verse 16, her priests I will clothe with salvation, and her saints will shall Well, the way that the Davidic covenant was fulfilled was both greater than what God's people anticipated, but very different from what they anticipated. They envisioned an earthly king to sit on an earthly throne in the earthly city of Jerusalem and to reign for a very, very long time. God had something better planned. A son of David who would sit on heaven's throne as king over all kings and live River all Lords, and a church that would become the heavenly Zion, the new Jerusalem, the living city of the living temple of God It ultimately comes to glory at the very end of the book in Revelation 21 and 22, which we'll get to later this year as we continue our journey through God's word. Word, but this is what God's doing. And we who are believers in Jesus Christ are now made priests. Used to be just a subset of God's people who were the priests. priests. But now in Christ Jesus we are all priests because we all have access to the Father through the high priest and we can all intercede on behalf of others. And so we have been clothed with Salvation. You know the Hebrew word for salvation? Yeshua. You know whose name is Yeshua? Jesus. So the Hebrew word for salvation, the Hebrew name of Jesus. Is the same word. We're clothed with Christ and we shout for joy. We are the saints. We are the priests and we are the saints. There are some church traditions that unfortunately they sort of push us back into an Old Testament mindset where they say, well, there's just a few people along Among you who are priests, and there's even a fewer number who are saints. But no, the people of God are saints, not because we are holy in and of ourselves, but because we've been made holy. through Christ. If you are clothed with Christ Jesus, your salvation, that makes you holy. It also gives you eternal joy that nothing in this world can take away, because you have an inheritance kept in heaven. for you. The enemies of God's people are clothed with shame because they have no righteousness, because they don't have Jesus the salvation, but on Christ forever, his crown as King of Kings and Lord of Lords will dwell So David was a man after God's own heart. God made a covenantal promise to David. God kept that covenantal promise by bringing the greater son of David, the Son of God, Jesus Christ Born in Bethlehem, crucified and resurrected in Jerusalem, ascended to the right hand of God the Father as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, who clothes his people with himself, with his righteousness, and gives us reason. to shout for joy. We're a part of this kingdom. We're a part of this temple. This is our story. This is our song. We're making our pilgrimage to Through this world and the world doesn't recognize it. The world doesn't stand up and say, Oh, there's the Christians. They're the true children of God. They're the truly righteous ones. They're the ones who've been blessed by God with eternal joy. The world doesn't say that But God does. And whose word matters most? God's or the world's? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that you have spoken your blessing over us. That can never be taken away from us. Thank you for Christ, our salvation, and our eternal joy. We praise you in his name Amen. Well, that is Psalm 132. Thank you for joining me for that. Tomorrow we're going back to the book of Jeremiah. I hope you can join me. Have a blessed day in the Lord.