Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day six hundred and sixty-four, and we're coming to Psalms 97. Psalms of praise and worship about the justice of God and the righteousness of God and the coming of Christ. We covered these psalms this past summer in our Psalm Summer in the Psalms series. So if you want to hear larger treatments on these Psalms, you can find those sermons on our YouTube channel or on uh sermon audio. So invite you to look those up if you want to hear more from these Psalms. But today let's pray and ask the Lord's help as well As we look at these Psalms. Heavenly Father, thank you for Psalms 97 and 98. Thank you for the powerful truth and the beautiful. majestic language of these psalms and how they call us to worship and they call us to wonder and they call us to wait for the coming of our Lord. And so we pray that you would be with us today as we go through these Psalms. Help us Help us to have our vision of the world and our hopes for the future adjusted by the truth of your word and the reality of your Son, our King, in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm ninety-seven. The Lord reigns. Let the earth rejoice. Let the many coastlands be glad. Clouds and thick darkness are all around him, righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne. Fire goes before him and burns up his adversaries all around. His lightnings Light up the world. The earth sees and trembles. The mountains melt like wax before the Lord, before the Lord of all the earth. The heavens proclaim his righteousness, and all the peoples see his glory. All worshippers of images are put to shame, who make their boast in worthless idols. Worship him All you gods. Zion hears and is glad, and the daughters of Judah rejoice because of your judgments, O Lord Lord, for you, O Lord, are most high over all the earth. You are exalted far above all gods. O you who love the Lord, hate evil He preserves the lives of his saints, he delivers them from the hand of the wicked. Light is sown for the righteous, and joy for the upright in heart. Rejoice in the Lord, O you righteous, and give That is Psalm ninety-seven. It's very straightforward and very powerful and just something we need to be reminded of all the time in the midst of our busy lives in a chaotic world, the Lord reigns. That is the truth. Yahweh, our God, the one true God, the maker of heaven and earth, the great I am, the one who was and is and is to come, the Almighty God, our covenant Lord, come to us in Jesus Christ. our Savior. He reigns. And the effect of his reign is to bring joy to the earth. Because despite the rebellion of man, despite the proliferation of evil, there is a king on his throne. And there is righteousness and justice that are the foundation of his throne. Because it's a world of evil, God does have Have wrath. As a holy God, as a good God, as a God whose throne sits on righteousness and justice, He has wrath against wicked men And his fire goes before him and burns up his adversaries, his lightnings light up the world. There is justice, there is holy fury that comes from the Lord at evil. In his creation. And that is good news. That is good news. The heavens proclaim his righteousness, all the people see his glory. The glory of God is seen in the lightning, in the thunder. We, the people of God, who are Zion, verse eight, we should hear of God's work in the creation and of his revelation of himself, and we should be glad And rejoice because of the judgments of God. We want a God who is powerful and just. We don't want a God who is weak. We don't want a God who Who overlooks evil. We don't want a God who can be bribed or will just turn a blind eye to wickedness in the world. We need, we were created for, we were redeemed. By and for a God who is just, and who is the most high over all the earth, and who is exalted above all gods. And then the call for us is to respond to the reality of God's holy reign by hating evil. If you love the Lord, you have to hate the things that he hates. You have to hate the evil that plagues his world. Hate the wars that terrify Hate children being bombed and and cut to pieces, hate children being slaughtered in the womb, hate the beauty of God's creation being violated. So Savagely. The the beauty of the highest of God's creation, man made in his image, being twisted by evil and selfishness. For eternity, and that He has delivered us, He is delivering us, He will deliver us from the hand of the wicked. And for that we can rejoice and we can give Thanks. But when will this justice be revealed? That's what we get in Psalm 98. Psalm 98 is a psalm and it says, Oh, sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. The Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in In the sight of the nations. He has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. With the lyre and the sound of men Melody, with trumpets and the sound of the horn, make a joyful noise before the King, the Lord. Let the sea roar, and all that fills it, the world and those who dwell in it, let the rivers cloud Their hands and the hills sing together for joy. Why? Before the Lord, for he comes. For he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world. With righteousness and the peoples with equity. God is great, and we should sing Christians have always been a singing people. We have written more hymns and worship songs than any other people in the history of the world. We sing. Praises to God, and we should sing praises to God. God's right hand and his holy arm is a way of referring to the Lord Jesus Christ, whose His name is found in verse two. The Lord has made known his salvation, his Yeshua, his Jesus. The sight of the nations. God made a promise. He made a promise to Abraham that through the seed of Abraham, all the nations of the earth, all the families of the earth, would be blessed. And this has been kept in Jesus Christ. God's right hand and holy arm, God's own righteousness made known, revealed to the world in keeping the promise. Promises he made to the house of Israel, all the ends of the earth, all the families of the earth, have seen the salvation of our God, and that means the whole earth has reason to rejoice. God has come to the rescue. For years and years, Israel as a nation thought when will God come to our rescue politically and deliver us from our geopolitical enemies? Instead, God has come to the rescue Of the whole world to deliver us from our eternal enemies, sin and death and hell, condemnation, separation. From God, the consequences of our sin. God has come and brought a greater salvation to a far larger number of people, and that is reason to rejoice. All creation joins in this chorus of praise, the sea roaring, the world, those who dwell in it, the rivers clapping their hands, the hills singing together. Jesus Christ, the one who has been revealed and has brought salvation, is coming again to judge thee. earth. And you see, when Jesus comes again to judge the earth, he will redeem all of God's creation. All of it will be bought back from its bondage to decay and despair. To death, it will be renewed, redeemed, restored, and glorified, far greater than it was even at the beginning of creation. When Jesus comes and judges the world with righteousness and the peoples with equity, it will mean redemption for all of God's people in every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. And So I don't know what's going on in your life today. I sometimes have been struggling with discouragement lately. Uh things have been weighing on my heart and mind, things have been kind of getting me down, things locally happening within my life and the life of our church. and within our nation and then within the world. And you know, I've been struggling a little bit lately with some discouragement. But Psalms 97 and 98 Just lift up my eyes and remind me of the truth. The Lord reigns. God's righteousness has been revealed. God's salvation has come and is coming up. Again. So no matter what happens, no matter what disappointments or heartaches or losses or troubles or turmoils, God Is in control, Jesus has brought salvation, and he is coming again. Amen? Let's pray. Father, thank you. Such truth, such glorious perspective on the world. You reign, your son, the righteousness of the God has come to bring us salvation. We are redeemed, and He is coming again to bring us home to be with you forever. All of our troubles and heartaches are but But temporary, momentary, light affliction, as the Apostle Paul called them, the weight of glory that's being worked for us is far beyond compare. Thank you. For that glorious truth. Let it anchor our souls, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you for joining me for Psalms 97 and 98 today. We are going to go back to the book of Esther tomorrow. I hope that was an encouragement to you. It was to me. Always is an encouragement to be in God's Word. Have a blessed day in the Lord.