Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On our 943rd day through the Word of God, we come to Psalms 137 and 138. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we turn to you and we turn to your word again today. We need to hear from you. We pray that you would speak to us. We pray that you would make your word living and active as an instrument in the hands of your Holy Spirit to penetrate our hearts, to expose, to correct, to shape, to lead. Father, that we might glorify you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Psalms 137 and 138. Psalm 137. By the waters of Babylon, there we sat down and wept when we remembered Zion. On the willows there we hung up our lyres, for there our captors required of us songs, and our tormentors mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a foreign land? If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill. Let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth if I do not remember you, if I do not set Jerusalem above my highest joy. Remember, O Lord, against the Edomites, the day of Jerusalem, how they said, Lay it bare, lay it bare, down to its foundations, O daughter of Babylon, doomed to be destroyed. Blessed shall he be, blessed shall he be, who repays you with what you have done to us. Blessed shall he be, who takes your little ones and dashes them against the rock. Psalm 137 is a lament. It is a communal lament, and a bit of an imprecatory psalm as well. Although it's not exactly an imprecatory psalm, as we'll see here in a moment, but this is coming from a very dark place in Israel's history from a very dark experience. Many people are are shocked, and I think rightfully so, by the ending of Psalm 137, this idea of taking the ones and dashing them against the rocks. But but the setup line for that In the line before it is, Blessed shall he be who repays you with what you have done to us. So this taking your little ones and dashing them against the rock is exactly what Babylon had done. to Jerusalem. When Babylon conquered Jerusalem, we just got done reading again about that in Jeremiah. But here's a stark, powerful reminder that this was not some just fact of history that we can read in black and white and just sort of forget about. These are real people. who suffered tremendously. And one of the things they did when they conquered Jerusalem was they took the smallest Infants basically if someone was too young to be of any use, they couldn't take them off and put them in school and retrain them, they couldn't put them to work, they were just too young, they just killed them. And one of the ways they did that was by taking babies and smashing them against the rocks that had been you know, there from the rubble of the destroyed city and even the destroyed temple. So just think of that. The destroyed temple of Jerusalem, the rocks, and then little babies being smashed. against the rocks. It's horrifying. It's it's deeply disturbing. And then imagine just think you're one of the people who've seen this happen, that this has happened too, and you've been taken captive And these are probably the Levitical singers, like the sons of Asaph, the sons of Korah, one of the Levitical choirs. And they they're taken into captivity with their liars because they're going to be put to work to entertain in the court of Nebuchadnezzar, probably. And so they're being taken off into captivity. And when they get there and they're sitting down by the waters of Babylon, they're weeping. over what they've been through, the conquest of Jerusalem, the death of these small children, a thousand miles of walking to get from Jerusalem to Babylon, and then They're told, sing us one of the songs of Zion. Entertain us with one of those happy Zion songs. And they say, how shall we? How can we? How can they even ask us to? They've just destroyed our city. They've just killed our children. They've just Ravished our wives. They've just taken us off into captivity. They've just destroyed the temple where we led worship. How in the world can they ask us to sing these songs? That is the depth of the emotional distress and pain and anguish. And so out of that depth of emotional pain and anguish comes two things. One is a longing for Jerusalem. Do not forget Jerusalem. And the other is a desire for retribution. Remember, O Lord, against the Edomites The day of Jerusalem, how they said, lay it bare, lay it bare, down to its foundations. The Edomites, who are addressed in the book of Obadiah, They rejoiced over the downfall of Jerusalem. They mocked. They ridiculed. And the Babylonians killed and murdered And not exactly praying to God that God would do these things But just expressing the anguish. See, an imprecatory prayer would be a prayer to God. And they're not saying, Oh Lord Take their little ones and dash them against the rocks. Not saying that. It's just an expression of the anguish of the heart that overflows. And so it's an honest expression. God is not sanctioning this. Some people take this as, oh, God is sanctioning infanticide. No, no, no, no, no. It's the exact opposite of what's going on here. God is in no way sanctioning infanticide. God is hearing the distressed cries of his people Because there are times when there is deep anguish. I remember reading several years ago about a pastor in Vietnam when the communists came and took over, and they They took rounded up his family. They shot his wife and children in front of him. They burned down his church and his home, and then they put him to work. at a forced labor camp. These things happen. They've happened to God's people in the past. They are happening to God's people in parts of the world now. It's evil. It's absolute evil. And there is no righteous way to respond to that without deep anguish So what do we take from Psalm 137? First of all, we need to be very, very, very thankful that we are so blessed and so protected and so cared for by God that we haven't been through these things. Others of God's people who were no worse than we are, these Levitical uh singers who led the singing in the temple, they they weren't any worse than we are, and yet this happened to them? Because of the sin of their king and because of the sin of other people in Jerusalem, they suffer these disastrous consequences. We need to be thankful. That we are so blessed and so privileged that we need to use that freedom, that blessing, that privilege to proclaim the gospel, to sing to the Lord. We also need to identify with those who are suffering. And when we say, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven, in the Lord's Prayer. When we say with the end of Revelation, come quickly, Lord Jesus, we are expressing a heart longing that has these same two elements to it. One, We long for heavenly Jerusalem. We long for the new Jerusalem. We long for our eternal Temple City home. And we desire to see the Lord's justice on those who have wronged his people. And that is a righteous thing. So be thankful. Weep with those who weep, and long for the coming of Jesus, long for Jerusalem, and long for justice. Psalm 138 of David I give you thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart. Before the gods I sing your praise. I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness. For you have exalted above all things your name and your word. On the day I called you answered me, my strength of soul you increased All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O Lord, for they have heard the words of your mouth, and they shall sing of the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord. For though the Lord is high, he regards the lowly, but the haughty he knows from afar. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life You stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand delivers me. The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me. Your steadfast love, O Lord, endures forever. Do not forsake the work of your hands. Psalm 137 takes us to the depths of despair at the end of the existence of the temple. Psalm 138, which follows right after it intentionally, takes us back hundreds of years to the beginning of the temple. This is written by David It's written by David to be sung in worship at the temple when the temple was built, which wasn't even built by David, but by his son. So this is a psalm of thanksgiving for the thank offerings that were brought to the temple. I will give thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart before the gods, that is, before the mighty ones of the world, before the kings and the rulers of the earth, I sing your praise. That's an interesting answer to the question of Psalm 137. How can we sing the Lord's songs in a foreign land? Because you have a chance to praise the Lord as a testimony before the gods, the great ones of the earth, the Nebuchadnezzars and the Nebuchadnezzar and the rulers and the officials in the court of the most powerful emperor in the world, before the gods, I sing your praise. And if they're a thousand miles away from Jerusalem, you can still bow down toward the Holy Temple. That's no longer there, but God has promised it will be rebuilt, and that reminds me of Daniel, who was faithful. to pray facing Jerusalem, publicly known, with his windows open, give thanks to your name. Give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness. These two are so often seen together in the Psalms as a basis for for Thanksgiving. We see two sort of pairs as the main basis for thanksgiving. For the Lord is good, and his steadfast love endures forever, or we give thanks for your steadfast love and your faithfulness. This is the character of our God. He is good and steadfast in his love and faithful. This is who we thank. The character of God doesn't change when our circumstances change The character of God remains the anchor for our souls and the object of our praise, even in the deepest depths as well as in the highest heights. If we're winning or struggling, if we're triumphant or weeping, God remains steadfast in his love, faithful in his promises, good in his character, and we should give him thanks. God has exalted above all things his name and his word His name. What he has revealed about himself. His word. How he has revealed himself So God's name is his very character, what he has revealed, that he's steadfast in love, he's faithful, he's good, and that his word is how he has revealed that to us. There's nothing more important in the whole world than the name of the Lord and the Word of God by which we know the name of the Lord. And so when we're in despair, we need to go to the Word, seek the Lord. When we're rejoicing and thankful, we need to go to the Word and seek the Lord. All the kings of the earth shall give thanks to you, O Lord, for they've heard of the words of your mouth. How are the kings of the earth going to hear? Sometimes it's like when Nebuchadnezzar took these Jerusalemites captive and brought them into his court. And they are Daniel and Shadrach and Meshach and Abednego and probably some of these Levite Levitical musicians. Testify. They testify to the truth of the Lord and they hear the words of God's mouth And they even learn to sing of the ways of the Lord. Look at Daniel chapter 4, where Nebuchadnezzar has this humbling experience where he comes to know the Lord And he sings, he he gives thanks to him, really in poetry that could be a song at the end of his letter of praise to God. For the Lord is on high, he regards the lowly. He regards the captives who are forced to sing against their will. The haughty, the arrogant The smug and self-satisfied, he knows from afar. Whenever we walk in the midst of trouble, God preserves us God stretches out his hand against the wrath of our enemies. His right hand delivered us. You see how this is the perfect Psalm to come right after Psalm 137. In the depths of despair we need to remember these things. We may be in the midst of trouble, but God is preserving our lives. We may have wrath of enemies against us, but God is stretching out his hand against that wrath. And his right hand is delivering us. The Lord has promised, and he will not fail, to fulfill all of his purposes for us, because his steadfast love endures forever. And so we ask on the basis of what God has already promised, do not forsake the work of your hands. I don't know what you're going through or what your struggles may be, but I know that if you're a child of God, you're suffering persecution from the enemy of our souls You suffer harassment from the world that hates God and hates his people. You suffer from your own flesh, craving and doubting and wrestling. And you need the assurance of Psalm 138 and the instruction to give thanks and to worship God. Let's pray. Father, you are great. There is no one above you. There's no one beside you. You are incomparable. Lord God, you are good You are good. Your steadfast love endures forever. You are faithful in all of your ways. You keep your promises. You will Not forsake the work of your hands. You will fulfill your purposes for us as your children. And we thank you for that And we praise you. Help us to keep thanksgiving and praise, worship, adoration. front and center in our hearts and minds and lives, no matter what you call us to go through in this life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Psalms 137 and 138. Tomorrow we're going to go over to the book of Proverbs before starting the Book of Lamentations. Day after tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.