Good morning and welcome to the Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. We are seeking gospel comfort together three days a week as we work our way through through one question at a time through the Heidelberg Catechism, a set of questions and answers from 1563, a wonderful Reformation document that that gives us the roadmap, really a biblical roadmap. to how we find gospel comfort. It takes us from guilt through grace to gratitude. And right now, we're in question 15 out of 129 today. And we're in this pivot from guilt toward grace. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to him today. Father, thank you so much for giving us the grace of the gospel that brings us real, lasting, eternal comfort. We pray that you would speak to us through your word and by your spirit today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so yesterday we were looking at question 14. I say yesterday, really on Monday, the last devotional we did. We were looking at question 14. Can any mere creature pay for us? We owe God a debt for our sin. God's justice demands full satisfaction, full payment of that debt that we owe. And we question 13 was asking, can we pay the debt ourselves? And we can't because we just add to it every day because we're sinful. So then question 14 is asking, can any mere creature pay for us? Could we get another created being to take the place? And the answer is no. In the first place, God will not punish another creature for the sin which man has committed. Furthermore, no mere creature can sustain the burden of God's eternal wrath against sin and deliver others from it. So it's the insufficiency of a mere creature. And that brings us to this Wonderful question 15. What kind of mediator and deliverer must we seek? This really, really brings us to the uniqueness. of Christianity and why it is the Christian gospel alone that offers true and lasting hope. Because no other of any of the world religions, not Buddhism or Islam or Hinduism or Judaism or anything has this kind of mediator and deliverer. We're guilty before a holy God. We owe an infinite debt for our sin. We can't pay it ourselves because we're the problem. No mere creature could pay it for us. So what kind of mediator and deliverer must we seek? One who is a true and righteous man. And yet more powerful than all creatures. That is, one who is at the same time true God. So why, first of all, a true and righteous man? Because it's man's debt. You see, Adam, the first man, brought this on us when he sinned. And all of us ever since have followed in his footsteps. We've been born with a corrupted nature, and then we've acted out of that corrupted nature to to defile ourselves by our own choice. And so it's a man that has to pay because it's a man that owes. And so we need a true and righteous man. And yet a mere man, a mere creature, wouldn't be enough. We need someone who's more powerful than all creatures, one who is, at the same time, true God. Let's look at some scripture. 1 Corinthians 15, 21 says, For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. Adam brought death into the world. Christ, the second Adam, brings life, brings resurrection from the dead into the world. It's a man who brought us into the mess. It's a man who has to lead us out of the mess because we are the s the ones made in God's image and the ones who are given this unique position over creation under God. Hebrews 2. 17 says of Christ, therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect. so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. Jesus, the eternal Son of God, made like his brothers in every respect, made fully human. Why? So that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest. Merciful, he understands our weakness. faithful, he's the Son of God who never wavers, he's the high priest who is without sin and yet with mercy and compassion for us. And in his body, he needed a body for this. In his body he makes propitiation. for the sins of the people. What is propitiation? It is the blood sacrifice that satisfies divine justice. It's what we need. It's the great quest that all human beings need, whether we've ever heard the word before or could define it, it's what we all need, propitiation. A sacrifice that would pay be the full satisfaction of divine justice, our debt paid in full. God's wrath atoned for. Divine justice satisfied. Jesus does this by being made like his brothers in every respect. And We're told more about Jesus in Hebrews 7, for it was fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heaven. heavens. We have a wonderful high priest. We have one who is infinitely valuable and pure and holy and unstained by sin and exalted. He's our mediator. He is our sacrifice, our satisfaction. Isaiah 9, 700 years before Jesus was born, told of what he would do when he comes. For unto us a child is born. To us a son is given, and his name shall be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. This is the one we need. This is the one. He comes wonderful counselor. He's full of wisdom because he's wisdom incarnate. Mighty God, because he's God incarnate. He has almighty power, everlasting Father, from everlasting to everlasting. He's the one who cares for us, Prince of Peace, who makes peace. by his blood shed on the cross. This is the one we need. What kind of mediator and deliverer must we seek? One who is a true and righteous man and yet more powerful than all creatures, that is one who is at the same time true God. This is Jesus This is the unique one in all the history of the world. No one else is true God and true man. No one else is true righteousness and our perfect peace. He is the one we need. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, who is the satisfaction of divine justice and the fulfillment of all human righteousness. He is everything we need. And we thank you for him. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. And again, as we always do, let's respond to God's word by worshiping Him together. Mantas starts warning for the sense. Of God who came with instance to reclaim how they knew the word. Comment Easter Steal my poet With his blood, Haley would spend. Give me help for me this land. Of God was me with Christ. Let us free Hallelujah for you. Gloria King, all his random home to bring. Then announce some will sing Hollywood.