Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We're getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you. It's a good Friday today on week 11 is Holy Week of 2025 when these devotionals are first released. We are in Matthew 24. Taking a look at 29 to 51, continuing to take a look at the second coming of Jesus, and we're asking this question, how can we prepare? for Jesus' coming. What should we do to prepare for Jesus' coming? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the promise of the coming of your Son. who's coming again to bring a final end to all evil sin and suffering and to bring us home into the eternal kingdom of the new heavens and the new earth. Thank you so much for that promise. Help us to be ready as you teach us from your word today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So we touched on some of this yesterday, but we're going to see more things in today's passage starting in verse 29. Of CHAPTER twenty four. Immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man. And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds out of from one end of heaven to the other. From the fig tree, learn its lesson. As soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near. So also when you see all these things, you know that he is near at the very gates. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away But concerning the day and hour, no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. For as were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. For as in those days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day when Noah entered the ark, and they were unaware until the flood came and swept them all away. so will be the coming of the Son of Man. Then two men will be in the field, one will be taken, and one left. Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken, one left. Therefore stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming. But know this that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into. Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. Who then is the faithful and wise servant? whom his master has set over his household to give them their food at the proper time. Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes Truly I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions. But if that wicked servant says to himself, My master is delayed, and begins to beat his fellow servants, and eats and drinks with drunkards The master of that servant will come on the day he does not expect him, and at an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces, and put him with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing. of teeth. No one knows when Jesus will come again. Jesus really could not have been more clear about this truth, but still people have made their predictions. I remember a book I saw in a Christian bookstore on clearance in the year 1989. It was called 88 Reasons Why the Rapture Will Be in 1988. I saw it on clearance in nineteen eighty-nine. About fifteen years ago it was Harold Camping who made the news with his bold and public prediction that May twenty-first 2011 was the final judgment day. This was followed by a bold prediction of Earth Destruction Day on October 21st, 2011, complete with the slogan, The Bible Guarantees It. No. The opposite is true. The Bible guarantees that no one knows the day and hour. Know this for certain then. Whatever date someone publicly predicts will be the date of the second coming of Jesus, Jesus will not come on that day. So if we can't calculate the date of Jesus' second coming, what can we do? Some people have jokingly said, Jesus is coming, look busy. Jesus doesn't want us pretending to be busy so we can impress him when he comes, but he is coming soon. When is soon? Well, as Lan said in Narnia, I call all times soon. Jesus wants us to be ready. What does that mean? Here are some things we can be reasonably deducing from the teachings of Jesus in this passage and elsewhere. We need to be believing. Jesus wants us to keep our faith in him, trusting in him. He said, believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. That's John 14, verses 1 to 3. Be worshiping. God desires our worship because He desires us, and He knows that our hearts were made for Him. To paraphrase John Piper, we are most satisfied when we glorify him, and he is most glorified when we are satisfied in him. The third thing to be is to be serving. Jesus has called us to serve one another just as he has served us. He is our servant savior, and we follow him when we serve others. Then we need to be loving. Jesus taught that the most important commandments were to love God and love our neighbors. Then he added a new commandment, that we are to love one another. in the body of Christ, in the same way that He has loved us, by laying down our lives for one another. And finally, we need to be obeying and repenting. The wicked servant in today's passage takes his master's delay as an excuse to sin. and abuse his authority and abuse his fellow servants. Jesus warns us not to be like that servant. Instead we need to strive to be faithful and obedient to his will and to repent quickly when we fail It is as simple as this. Jesus says, hold on, I'm coming. And behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book He says in Revelation 22, verse 7. Let's look at Psalm 56 now. Psalm 56 is written to the choirmaster according to the dove on the far-off terebens. It's probably the tune that it was set to. We have no idea what it sounds like. This is a mikum of David, and it was written when the Philistines seized him in Gath. Be gracious to me, O God, for man tramples on me. All day long an attacker oppresses me. My enemies trample on me all day long. For many attack me proudly. When I am afraid, I put my trust in you. In God, whose word I praise. In God I trust. I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me? All day long they injure my cause. All their thoughts are against me for evil. They stir up strife, they lurk, they watch my steps, and they have waited, as they have waited for my life For their crime will they escape? In wrath, cast down the peoples, O God. You have kept count of my tossings. Put my tears in your bottle. Are they not in your book? Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call, this I know that God is for me. In God whose word I praise, in the Lord whose word I praise, in God I trust I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? I must perform my vows to you, O God. I will render thank offerings to you, for you have delivered my soul from death, yes, my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of Life. Beautiful, powerful. Psalm fifty-six, let's pray. Heavenly Father, sometimes when we think about the second coming of Jesus and the end times and the end of the world We do get afraid. We think, what great tribulation is coming? What great persecution is coming? Will we be able to endure? Will we hold on to our faith till the end? We need to know that you are our salvation. What can man do to us? They cannot take us out of your hands. You are far more powerful. It is your word that we praise. It is your word that we trust. It is your word that has become flesh and is the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior. So thank you. Thank you for Jesus, our strong, sufficient Savior. And come quickly, Lord Jesus, we long to see you face to face. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for this holy week, week eleven of our walking through the Gospels with Jesus. I pray that you can join me next week as we begin again with uh Matthew 25. So have a blessed day. Amen. The Lord.