Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We've come to the end of week 18 now. And we're at Mark 13, verses 1 to 13, and we're asking, how can we be ready for persecution? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. Please write your word on our hearts this morning and shape our hearts to love Jesus and to be more like him. We pray this in his name. Amen. Mark 13, 1-13. And as he came out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, Look, teacher, what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings. And Jesus said to him, Do you see these great buildings? There will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. And as he sat on the Mount of Olives, opposite the temple Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately, Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things are about to be accomplished? And Jesus began to say to them, See that no one leads you astray. Many will come in my name, saying, I am He, and they will lead many astray And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed. This must take place, but the end is not yet, for nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, there will be earthquakes in various places, there will be famines These are but the beginning of the birth pains. But be on your guard, for they will deliver you over to councils. And you will be beaten in synagogues, and you will stand before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations. And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to say, but say whatever is given you in the hour. For it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit. And brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents, and have them put to death. And you will be hated by all for my name's sake, but the one who endures to the end will be saved. Jesus clearly taught his disciples to expect persecution. Persecution comes in different forms, from teasing and labeling to prison and death. The disciples themselves, who heard this teaching from Jesus, would face intense persecution. Most of the twelve disciples of Jesus died for their testimony, and John would end his life exiled on the island of Patmos. They were ready for what was coming. Are we? How can we be? Well, first, from this passage, we're told, don't be led away by false Christs and false gospels. Jesus warned that many would come, claiming to be the Savior. Over the centuries, many false prophets and many false Christs have arisen. including Joseph Smith and Brigham Young of Mormonism, Charles Taze Russell of the Jehovah's Witnesses, Sum Young-moon of the Unification Church, David Koresh of the Branch Davidians the the so-called Prophet Muhammad of Islam and and many other false prophets, false witnesses have arisen, but Christians Can also be led away by other false gospels that promise a salvation that Jesus never promised, such as a health and wealth gospel, or the power to shape reality by your words in a sort of name it-claim it. If you believe you will receive kind of gospel that is not really biblical. Others have sought to undermine confidence in Scripture and biblical truth by watering down what the Bible says. So the first step To being ready for persecution is not to be led astray. Second, be on your guard. If we're expecting persecution, we won't be alarmed or troubled when it comes. One key way to be on our guard according to Scripture is to have the full armor of God in place. This means we know who we are in Christ And we make full use of the gospel benefits that He gives us in Christ, truth, righteousness, peace, salvation, faith, and the Word of God. Thirdly, spread the gospel. Jesus said that the gospel would be proclaimed throughout all the earth before he would return and end all evil. One of the most stinging indictments against the church is that Jesus has been gone for almost 2,000 years, and we still have not yet taken the gospel to every people group on earth. We need to take the gospel to the nations and to our neighbors as part of standing firm in Christ It also helps us get ready for persecution because we know better why we're being persecuted and why it's worth it to suffer for Christ. And fourth, trust in the Holy Spirit. Jesus said, When they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to say, but say whatever is given you in that hour, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit Now, Jesus is not telling us not to study Scripture or to study apologetics, but he's telling us to not be anxious. We don't need to worry about how we're going to defend ourselves. God is our shield and our defender. We don't need to worry about how we're going to defend the Lord. He's the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. We need to trust and be prepared to speak faithfully by the power of the Holy Spirit Persecution comes in some form or other to every faithful Christian. 1 Timothy 3. 12. Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. This is not cause to fear, but it's a reason to rejoice that we bear his name and that we are given the opportunity to share in his sufferings But be ready. And to be ready, we need to remember to stay faithful, not to be led astray, to be on our guard, to spread the gospel, and to trust the Holy Spirit. Psalm 91 is a great psalm for us to consider in the face of persecution. Psalm 91, he who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, My refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust, for he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence. He will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you will find refuge. His faithfulness is a shield and buckler. You will not fear the terror of the night, nor the arrow that flies by day, nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness, nor the destruction that wastes at noonday. A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you. You will only look with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked, because you have made the Lord. your dwelling place, the Most High, who is my refuge. No evil shall be allowed to befall you. No plague come near your tent. For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways. On their hands they will bear you up. Lest you strike your foot against the stone, you will tread on the lion and the adder, the young lion and the serpent you will trample underfoot. Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him. I will protect him because he knows my name. When he calls to me I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and honor him. With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you love us. And we are saved, and we are safe ultimately because you love us. In love, you've drawn us to yourself. In love, you've given us faith in Jesus. In love, you will keep us trusting in Jesus. But we cannot presume. Because presumption is not a sign of true saving faith. We must be diligent. We must be diligent. To be discerning so that we're not led astray. To be on our guard with the armor of God in place. We cannot take the promises of Psalm 91 and use them as an excuse to be negligent or foolish. But we can have confidence. We can trust in your Holy Spirit as we spread the gospel. And serve you. Help us to do so, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.