Isaiah 49. We're going to pick up with verse 17 and go to the end of the chapter today as we continue our Advent series. Here we're focusing especially on the middle part of this section, verse 22, where the Lord raises up a signal to the peoples, lifting up his hand to the nations. Isaiah forty-nine, verses seventeen to twenty-six, this is the word of God. Your builders make haste. Your destroyers and those who laid you waste go out from you. Lift up your eyes around and see. They all gather. They come to you. As I live, declares the Lord, you shall put them all on as a an ornament. You shall bind them on as a bride does Surely your waste and your desolate places and your devastated land, surely now you will be too narrow for your inhabitants And those who swallowed you up will be far away. The children of your bereavement will yet say in your ears, The place is too narrow for me. Make room for me to dwell in. Then you will say in your hearts, Who has borne me these? I was bereaved and barren, exiled and put away, but who has brought up these? Behold, I was left alone. From where have these come? Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will lift up my hand to the nations, and raise my signal to the peoples, and they shall bring your sons in their arms, and your daughters shall be carried on their shoulders. Kings shall be your foster fathers, and their queens your nursing mothers. With their faces to the ground they shall bow to you and lick the dust of your feet. Then you will know that I am the Lord Those who wait for me shall not be put to shame. Can the prey be taken from the mighty, or the captives of a tyrant be rescued? For thus says the Lord, even the captives of the mighty shall be taken, and the prey of the tyrant be released. For I will contend with those who contend with you, and I will save your children. I will make your oppressors eat their own flesh, and they shall drink with their own blood, with wine, as with wine. Then all flesh shall know that I am the Lord, your Savior, and your Redeemer, the Mighty One. of Jacob. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, what glorious good news you give us in your word. The deepest and truest reasons to rejoice, not just today, but to rejoice for eternity. Because you have Sent your son. You have given salvation. You have rescued us from the hands of our enemies. You have brought us life and peace. Enjoy. Speak to us now through this passage in your word. Write it on our hearts. Draw our hearts closer to Christ for the time we spend together. We pray this in Jesus' name. Let's begin with a question. Do you have reason to rejoice this Christmas season? Some of you might think of your life circumstances and you might think Yes, we have reason to rejoice. We have a beautiful baby boy who's going to celebrate his first Christmas with us. And we'll get lots of good pictures. Or my kids have come home from college or they've come home from being far away and they're going to be with us for the Christmas. season. My nephew was deployed with the U. S. Navy and he just got back to the U. S. yesterday and he'll be coming to Maryland on the nineteenth and we'll get to see him for Christmas and that's That's reasonable. What's interesting is in America this time of year, we say Merry Christmas to one another, or sometimes happy holidays. In England, the tradition is happy Christmas. We also sing lots of carols about joy. We sang some of them, joy to the world. Come, all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant. This is the third Sunday in Advent. It's a Sunday that is traditionally focused on joy, the joy of Christ's coming. And we might think Are these words all interchangeable? Joyful, merry, happy? Do they all basically mean the same thing? And no, they don't. They actually mean very different things. When we say Merry Christmas, Merry is the same as the word merriment, an older word that hardly is used anymore It means something pleasant or delightful. It actually comes from a word that means short-lived. Because merriment is something that you enjoy for a short period of time and then it goes away. I know my diet that I'm having this time of year has to last for a short period of time. Or there will be long-term consequences. And so we have merriment for a short period of time. Happy, as in happy Christmas, has its root in the word hap, which means good luck It's the same root as the word happening or happenstance. It just so happens that you're having some good luck and so you're happy And that's very circumstantially determined, and again, it's very temporary. But joy is not. The English word for joy comes from a French word. For rejoice, rejoicing. But to get a sense of what God means by joy, we look at a Hebrew word that has a sense of continual and growing pleasure arising from a sense of mission and purpose. If you have something to live for that is greater than you, if you have something that's been given to you You have joy, and it also carries with it the meaning of an anticipation of a hope being fulfilled. And so there's a longing aspect to a biblical joy. When the angels greeted the shepherds on that first Christmas night, they said, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. The good news, great joy for all the people of God because, not just because they were lucky, Or because they were enjoying some temporary merriment, but because God had done something that had fundamentally changed the world. that had given all of us something greater than we could ever have anticipated in the gift of God's Son, who brings to us what we most need, and that is salvation. And that salvation also brings us a new mission and a new purpose that is reflected in our text today, as well as a new hope to look forward to in anticipation. also reflected in our text today. Verse 22 of Isaiah 49 says, Behold I will lift up my hand to the nations and raise my signal to the peoples. To lift his hand signifies God taking an oath. Or entering into a covenant pledge. It's the same thing we still do when people take an oath of office or they offer testimony in court. The raising of the hand is an oath. It's a covenant promise. And then a signal is a standard. It is a a rallying um signal. It's used in battle. In in the noise of battle, in the chaos of battle, it can be very difficult to know who's on which side and where you should be going and what's going on. And so in ancient battles there were the signalmen who would hold up signals and you would know, okay, that's our team, and we're going that way, so let's all get together and go. It gives a sense of unity and mission and purpose. The signal that is raised and the hand that is lifted is the Lord Jesus Christ, nothing less. We've already heard in verse 8 that God speaks to Jesus, his son and servant, and says, I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people. Jesus is commonly referred to as the right hand of the Lord in the Old Testament. So the right hand of the Lord, given as a covenant to the people, is this signal that is raised for the nations. It is the Lord Jesus Christ. In verse 6, God had said, It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob. to bring back the preserved of Israel, I will make you as a light for the nations that my salvation may reach the ends of the earth. And so, do you have reason to rejoice this Christmas season if you have received God's covenant pledge in Jesus If you have rallied to the signal that has been raised in the Lord Jesus Christ, you have reason to rejoice. Whatever you're going through. Your husband could be in the hospital. You could have just recently lost a loved one. You could have your father going through surgery. By the way, update Annie Moon's father had the surgery earlier this morning and came Came through well and is in recovery. But Amy's in the hospital with her father, and she has reason to rejoice because of the Lord Jesus. Now, if you don't have Jesus, if you don't receive God's covenant pledge in Jesus Christ, if you don't rally to his signal. You may be having a good year. You may be having a good time. You can enjoy some happiness and some merriment. But you do not have true and lasting joy. You have no real reason to rejoice eternally. Eternally, because you don't have peace with God. You don't really have peace in your own heart. Because you know that you stand guilty and that God will judge. So let's go into our passage and unpack the reasons to rejoice. We're going to begin with a short review of something we said last week. And that is the gift of Jesus for our salvation means that the Lord has not forgotten us. So if you look just a little bit before Our passage in verse 14, God's people, this is written for God's people who would be in exile. And when God's people were sent away in exile, they were taken off into Babylonian captivity. And they were there for decades, a thousand miles away from their homeland, under the rule of a foreign people, unable to live freely. They thought They said, The Lord has forsaken me, my Lord has forgotten me. And God responded, Can a woman forget her nursing child That she should have no compassion on the son of her womb. Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you. Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands, with your walls, continually before me. What had at first probably sounded to God's people like a beautiful metaphor. Oh, God has engraved us on the palms of his hands. What a beautiful metaphor of remembering. And they, the exiles, I told you last week, they would write, they would draw on the palms of their hands in indigo ink. Something they wanted to remember, a loved one that they had lost, or the walls of Jerusalem, or the temple, and here God says, I've engraved you. Sounds like a beautiful metaphor, but in the Lord Jesus it becomes literal, physical, historical, and now eternal reality. As the Son of God still bears the scars in his hands that purchase our redemption. After the resurrection, when Thomas was wrestling with his doubt, the Lord Jesus invited him, put your fingers in. the scars in the holes in my hand. Because they're real. And they mean that we will never be forgotten. But then when God says in today's passage, behold, I lift up my hand to the nations, on one level this is a metaphorical image. Like someone taking an oath, but on the other hand, it is a literal lifting up of the Lord Jesus Christ. Which he talks about in John chapter 12. Jesus says, he's referencing many things. There's so many parallels between Isaiah and John. It's a wonderful study. But in John chapter 12, Jesus says, now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out, and I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. And in case we missed it, John adds in verse 33, he said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So just as the engraving on the palms of our hands becomes a literal, historical, and now eternal reality, so the lifting up of the hand to the nations, the lifting, the raising of the signal becomes a literal physical act when Jesus is raised up on the cross He says, I will draw all people to myself. That's a signal. Raised up, draw all people to myself. He is the signal for the nations. And what is the symbol of Christianity that we've been using for hundreds and hundreds of years? But a cross. Do you realize how bizarre that is? A cross was the most cruel form of execution that the Romans came up with. Romans like Cicero would say a good Roman will not even say the word crucifixion. Or allow the image to come into his mind. It is so repulsive. And yet because Jesus was raised up on a cross The most horrible method of execution devised by the Romans becomes the most powerful source of hope for all who believe in him. Because Jesus was cursed that we might be blessed. God kept his covenant promise to his own hurt, that we might be blessed forever in Christ. I want us to turn back together to Isaiah eleven because there's a strong parallel And Isaiah eleven helps us shed light on this passage in Isaiah forty-nine. So if you have your Bibles, turn to Isaiah eleven And I want us to see we're going to read up to verse twelve. And I want you to especially be listening for some keywords that are coming in verse 10 and verse 12, especially kids if you're following along as I read. You're going to hear some very familiar things about Jesus. And then I want you to listen for key words that are going to come up in verse 10 and in verse 12. So Isaiah 11. There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse And a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. And his delight will be in the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge by what his eyes see, or decide disputes by what his ears hear, but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth and he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked. Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, faithfulness the belt of his loins. The wolf shall dwell with the lamb. And the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf together, and a little child shall lead them. The cow and the bear shall graze, the young shall lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. The nursing child shall play over the whole of the cobra, and the weaned child shall not put his hand, shall put his hand on the outer's den. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain For the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the seas. In that day the root of Jesse, who shall stand as a signal for the peoples. Of him shall the nations inquire and his resting place shall be glorious. In that day the Lord will extend his hand yet a second time to recover the remnant that remains of his people from Assyria, from Egypt, from Pathras, from Kush, from Elam, from Shinar, from Hamath, from the coastlands of the sea. He will raise a signal for the nations and will assemble the banished of Israel and gather the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth. Did you hear it? What is a stump? A stump is what's left over when a tree is chopped down. Now imagine a stump that sat as a stump. For five hundred six hundred years. In five eighty six B C Jerusalem was destroyed. The Davidic kingship was brought to an end. The people of God were sent into exile. Seventy years later, they were brought back into the land. But without a king. If you've been doing the morning devotionals, you know the name Zerubbabel. Zerubbabel was the governor, and he was in the line of David, but he wasn't the king And they didn't have another king until King Herod, well there there was a Maccabean dynasty that didn't come from the line of David, and then there was Herod who wasn't even Jewish, he was an Edomite. So they had no Davidic king for 600 years, a stump. What was the promise God had made to David? The promise God made to David was forever. Someone from your line will sit on the throne over God's people forever. All right. Is is four hundred and fifty years the same as forever? No. So there was an unkept promise, there was shattered hopes, there was a stump that sat for 600 years. And then a shoot comes forth from the roots, deep underground. It shoots forth Full of the Holy Spirit, full of power, able to understand. See, there's side note One of the things that people like to do to sort of prove that Jesus is the promised Messiah is you go through and you find the key prophecies about him, that he was going to be born of a virgin, that he was born in Bethlehem, that he was crucified, which we're going to get to in Isaiah 53. And those are all great and wonderful. But the more you read the Old Testament, the more you just see him everywhere. Because even here in Isaiah 11, not only is the Spirit of the Lord upon him, which happened at his baptism, but he doesn't judge by what his eyes see because he judges with righteousness. What do we know about Jesus? He didn't need anyone to give him testimony about a man because he knew what was in someone's heart. He alone is the king who's able to judge with righteousness, not relying on second-hand testimony. He sees the truth. And he's raised up not just for the people of Israel, but he's raised up as a signal for the peoples, the nations. That's us. Another misconception people have is that the Old Testament is all about Israel and the New Testament is then turned from Israel to the church and to the world. Mm-mm. The whole thing's been about the whole world from the very beginning, from the first verse that says, In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. God's always been about the whole earth. So Jesus comes. He is this signal. He is this shoot. And he stands as a signal for the peoples. And right now He has a glorious resting place. Verse 10, his resting place shall be glorious. Right now, Jesus has a glorious resting place. Because he is sitting down, because he has finished the work the Father gave to him, he sits at the right hand of God the Father in majesty, on high, as King of kings and Lord of Lords now. Does the world recognize him as such? No. Does the United Nations gather together in New York and say, before we begin, let's acknowledge the Lord Jesus Christ as King of kings? No. That doesn't happen, right? But one day he will come again, and when he comes again His resting place will be glorious with his people in the new heavens and the new earth forever. But right now he's resting. He's seated in majesty on high. Okay. This truth about Jesus as the signal for the nations has has uh three clear implications for us. I want you to hear these. I'm going to write them down. First of all, Christ has been raised. He's been raised up on the cross, and he's been raised up from the dead, and he's been raised up to the right hand of God the Father. He's been raised and raised and raised. And he stands as a signal for the peoples and for the nations. What does that mean? We have. We have the universal message that all people on earth need to hear about how to have peace with God, how to have eternal, unfailing joy We've been given that message. Because we are ambassadors for Christ. He is the light of the world, and then he calls us to be the light of the world as his light is reflected through us. What's our job? Rally people to the signal. We're in battle. There's chaos. There's confusion. We find somebody and we say, Look, there's the signal. That's where we need to look. That's where we need to go. Think about the Apostle Paul. He was a Roman citizen. But he two things. One, he did not entangle himself in Roman politics. Paul didn't write a single word about Roman politics. And he also did not proclaim a message about the greatness of Rome. But he was passionately committed to traveling the world of his day, using the privileges he had as a Roman citizen, in order to proclaim Jesus Christ. to all the nations, to all peoples. He preached Christ and Him crucified. And he preached him to Jew and Greek to Roman and Barbarian, to slave and free, to imperial governors and kings, and to slave girls and fellow prisoners. Christ is the signal for the nations, and so Christ must be in our hearts And Christ must be on our lips, and Christ must be the driving passion of what we are burning with desire to share with the world. This is how God is going to gather in a countless multitude of people. Isaiah 49 says this is how. He's going to bring in so many people that even when God's people thought it was all over. God was only just beginning to gather in his people. The second implication Is that his glorious resting place is open for us to inquire of him. We have access to the throne of the king. King of Kings and Lord of Lords, who invites us to call upon him, and he will answer us according to his love and his wisdom out of his abundant riches in heaven. We can go to him to learn from him, to grow in our faith in him, to receive help from him in time of need, and to find in him the refuge for our souls. We can trust him. We can go to him. We must go to him. So these first two implications, how often And the first implication, how often are we quick to talk about anything else other than Jesus? And those things don't really matter for all of eternity. And the second thing is, how often are we so quick to try every other solution and when all else fails, I guess I'll pray. We say we even say, well, I can't really do anything for you, but at least I can pray for you. Well, that's something. Maybe that's where we need to start. Before we do anything else, let's pray. And after we've done everything else Let's pray. And while we're doing everything else, let's pray. Because our hope and our help comes from the Lord. His glorious resting place is open for us to inquire of Him. And the third thing is that he is coming again to bring the consummation of his salvation and his glorious kingdom. That means we live by faith in him. and in hope. By faith and in hope. Do you know what that means? We use these words. What does it mean to live by faith and in hope? What it means to live by faith is that we don't live according to what our eyes can see or what makes sense from a human perspective, but we live according to what God has promised. And we believe that what God has promised is more real than what our eyes can see or our human reason can understand. If God has promised it, we live by it. And then to live in hope means that our hearts are not settled on the things of this world, but are longing for the age to come, for the coming of the Lord. As we live by faith and we wait in hope, we have the promise given in verse 23, back to Isaiah 49. We're given the promise in verse 23. Kings shall be your foster fathers, their queens your nursing mothers. With their faces to the ground they ba they shall bow to you and lick the dust of your feet. Then you will know that I am the Lord, those who wait for me. shall not be put to shame. This verse is very difficult to interpret accurately. There's different opinions about it. But I think it is primarily fixing our eyes on the hope that will be revealed to us when Christ comes again. In Revelation 21, we're told that the kings of the earth bring the treasures of the nations into the new Jerusalem. And it's a picture of what happens after Jesus comes again. And those who, but whether or not you, however you look at this verse, here's the truth. The last two lines. Then you will know that I am the Lord. Those who wait for me shall not be put to shame. We are called to wait in hope. And we are promised that those who wait in hope will never be put to shame. There's coming a day when we will no longer live by faith, and we will no longer live in hope. Because Jesus will turn faith into sight, and he will turn hope into reality. And until that day, we live in we live by faith and we live in hope. But when we try, sometimes we try to steal the glory now. We try to force it to happen now. And when we do so, we are disappointed. And we're also stealing glory from God. But when we wait on the Lord, our strength is renewed. And we are not now, and we never will be put to shame. What about when God doesn't answer your prayers? He does. Well, but I prayed for the healing of my loved one, and they died. Did they die in the Lord? Because if they died in the Lord, then you planted a seed in hope. And that hope will not be disappointed. You see, God answers every prayer for healing for every one of his children. The best we ever get in this life is a temporary cancer. The cancer might go into remission and you might be given another five, ten, fifteen years. Praise God when that Does. It is a blessing and a gift. But God answers every prayer, not in the temporary, limited way that we see. He answers every prayer eternally and perfectly and gloriously. There will be no end. My grandmother died of cancer when I was eleven. And I remember praying for her to be healed. And I remember being very shocked and disappointed when she wasn't healed. And I was kind of shaken in my faith for a little bit, like, why didn't God answer my prayers? Why didn't God heal Nana? But he has healed her soul, and she will be given a resurrection body, and we will be gloriously whole forever, forever. The final reason we have to rejoice from Isaiah 49 is that our true and eternal enemies have been defeated and will be defeated. Verse 24. Can the prey be taken from the mighty? Will the captive of the tyrant be rescued? For thus says the Lord, even the captives of the mighty shall be taken, and the prey of the tyrant shall be rescued, for I will contend with those who contend with you, and I will save your children I will make your oppressors eat their own flesh, and they shall be drunk with their own blood as with wine. Then all flesh shall know that I am the Lord, your Savior, and your Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob. Verses twenty-four and twenty-five remind me of something Jesus said. In Mark three: twenty-seven, other gospels also he said. But no one can enter a strongman's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strongman. Then indeed he may plunder his house. When God's people were taken off into captivity to Babylon, they were held in that Babylonian captivity until the Babylonians were defeated by a greater power, and then they were set free. When our first parents, Adam and Eve, chose to rebel against God They put themselves and all humanity after them into a far worse bondage than Babylonian captivity. Babylonian captivity was bad. It was really that. But all humanity is under a worse captivity. We are captive not to the Babylonians, but we are captive to Satan. to sin, to death, and to hell. And it's a universal captivity over all people. Everyone sins, everyone dies, everyone is manipulated and deceived by Satan, and everyone goes to hell. when they die under God's just Punishment until until Jesus comes in. He says, I will contend with those who contend with you, and I will save your children. Jesus came into this world to contend with the devil and to overcome him. And to set us free from that bondage forever. Last week I said to you that we could think of the Christmas message in this simple way: God became fully human. so that he could engrave us on the palms of his hands. And that means you will never be forgotten. This week I think we can think of the Christmas message in this simple way. God became fully human so that he could contend with, defeat, and bind our enemy. And set us free from his captivity. He came to engrave us on the palm of his hands. He came to do battle with Satan and overcome him and bind him so that we could be set free. And we are free forever. Here's how Hebrews 2 puts it. Listen to Hebrews 2, 14 and 15. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things that through death He might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. We are subject to lifelong slavery through the fear of death because Satan is the tyrant who holds us in bondage. But Jesus came. to destroy the one who has the power of death. And listen to Colossians 2, 13 to 15. And you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses. by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in him. Amen? Our enemies, our strongest, worst, deadliest enemies, sin, Satan, death, hell, have been defeated by the death and resurrection of Jesus Death has been undone. Satan has been bound and cast out. Hell has been destroyed for those who belong to Jesus. And when he returns, when our faith becomes sight and our hope becomes reality, our defeated enemies will be thrown into the lake of fire forever and we will live forever free from all sin, all torment. all fear, all shame, all guilt forever. So whatever your circumstances this Christmas, If you belong to God through faith in Jesus Christ, you've been given reason to rejoice. Reasons to rejoice that nothing in this world can ever touch or take away. God remembers you and will never forget you. Christ has been raised on the cross and raised from the dead to draw you to God and give you access to Him. Through Christ, God is drawing his people from all nations to himself, and he calls us to share in this joyful work. For if you wait for him, you will never be put to shame. And fifth, all of your true enemies have been defeated and will be destroyed because of the victory of Jesus. And so rejoice. Rejoice. You know what's interesting though? Being merry and being happy is kind of a passive thing. It's a temporary thing, but it's also like something good happens to you, right? You have a baby. And you get to celebrate first Christmas with your baby or whatever. You look at a baby and you just smile. Because it's a baby. And if you look at babies and you don't smile, I don't want to be your friend. Like it's it's not hard to be happy. Now I understand. I remember those days. They're not all always You know, three o'clock in the morning when the kids screaming their head off. Maybe a different story. But when you're looking at a peaceful baby, a contented baby, or especially a sleeping baby Beautiful. Happiness and and merriment are things that sort of happen to you. You get an extra unexpected bonus at your job because it's been a good year for your company. You're going to be happy. Joy is more lasting. It's more eternally, unshakably true, but sometimes we have to work a little harder to experience it Because it requires living by faith and living in hope. So it requires saying no to the world and saying yes To God's word and God's promises. So even as I say rejoice in Jesus this Advent season and this Christmas season, I want to invite you to do What it takes to get that joy. Remember. Reflect. Sing and celebrate. We've given out Advent devotional books. There's still more out there. If you're visiting with us today, please take one on your way out. You can just pick up with Today's devotional and read to the end. It's fine. You don't need to have read the ones that come before. Spend time in God's Word, spend time listening to good wonderful Christmas music. I mean the silly stuff is fine too. I mean, you know, sleigh ride and winter wonderland and let it snow. I love all that kind of stuff too. But but the real joy comes when you when you listen to the meaningful Christmas music. They have a couple of opportunities. In a couple of hours, we're going to be singing Christmas carols over at Heart Heritage at 1. 30. Join us. Take we're not going to be there long, maybe 20 minutes, 30 minutes. We're going to sing some Christmas carols and I'll share a devotional message and and our hearts will rejoice at the truth tomorrow night. At 5. 45, we're going to gather at Calvary Baptist for Care Food Night. We're going to sing Christmas carols. You can come to one or the other or both. We're going to have a Christmas Eve service here, 6 30, Christmas Eve. Invite your friends and family. Come and worship. We'll sing lots of Christmas carols. It's nothing better than Christmas Eve with the candles going and singing Silent Night. We have to do a little bit of digging to get the gold, but it's real gold. The world will throw fake joy at you, but they're just fate. So what will you do differently this year? So that you will savor the joy of Christ and what He has done? What will you do this Christmas season to make sure that you are able from your soul truly to rejoice? Let's pray. Father, thank you for the gift of your Son. Thank you for the peace that He brings by removing the curse of the law. And making peace through his blood shed on the cross. Thank you for the light that he brings as the light of the world who comes into the world, bringing truth and righteousness and goodness. Thank you for the hope that he brings that we can live in expectation of what is coming for us because of what he's already done for us. And thank you for the joy that he brings. That we can live in real and eternal joy as the dearly loved, never-forgotten, victorious children of God We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.