Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're in John chapter 20, verses 19 to 23 today. And this is part of the resurrection chapter, Jesus appearing to the disciples in the upper room. And we're going to be asking the question, when and why? Did the disciples receive the Holy Spirit? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and for the privilege of being able to spend time in your word again today We pray that you would guide us into all truth for the glory of your name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. John chapter 20, verses 19 to 23. Short passage today. On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked, where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord, and Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. This is a wonderful and somewhat confusing section of John's Gospel. Jesus appears to his disciples after the resurrection. He commissions them to go out into all the world as the Father has sent me. Even so I am sending you. And then when he says this, he breathes on them. And he says, receive the Holy Spirit. What's wonderful here is the two times that Jesus says to his disciples, peace be with you. Peace be with you. That's what we want, right? We're all looking for peace. Um there's conflict, there's turmoil, there's division in the world, in the culture, in our heads, in our hearts, in our lives. Peace. Be with you, the peace of Christ alone brings us a deep and abiding peace. I love the simple and powerful way he commissions them here. This is John's version of the Great Commission. And it's so simple and straightforward. As the Father has sent me, Even so, I am sending you. God the Father commissioned the Son and sent him into the world. Even so, Jesus commissions us. and sends us into the world. What are we supposed to do in the world? All the things that Jesus did in the world as a man. We need to speak the truth. We need to demonstrate love. We need to show the power of the kingdom. We need to glorify God. We need to love people. As Jesus was sent into the world, so we are sent into the world. What's confusing is this part in verse 22 when he breathes on them and says, receive the Holy Spirit. It's confusing to us because we know that 50 days later, at Pentecost, about seven weeks later, 49, 50 days. They're going to receive the Holy Spirit with power at Pentecost. So did they receive the Holy Spirit here when Jesus breathes on them? Or did they receive the Holy Spirit at Pentecost? It seems like Jesus' actions here in the upper room are more of a sign and a promise than the actual full gift of the Holy Spirit. I say this because The disciples don't immediately manifest any evidence of the new power of the Holy Spirit dwelling in them. They don't immediately go out and start preaching the gospel or speaking in tongues or prophesying. In other words The signs that are so clearly and powerfully evident at Pentecost are not seen here. So it seems to me best to see this action as a sign and a promise. Almost like a form of sacrament, a visible outward sign. Jesus breathing on them, just as the Holy Spirit is the breath of God, the breathed out proceeding from the Father through the Son, from the Father and the Son, and coming to disciples. Now it's not to say that the disciples were completely without the influence of the Holy Spirit. No one can have faith without the influence of the Holy Spirit. Only they had not yet received the full empowering of the indwelling and anointing that they would get later as apostles. The other confusing thing in today's passage is the last verse. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. Was Jesus really giving the apostles the authority to forgive or to refuse to forgive anyone's sins? Well, you need to look at what follows, right? I'm saying that the giving of the Holy Spirit here was more of a sign and a promise because what follows is not immediate power demonstration of being filled with the Holy Spirit. What follows here, do we do we see the apostles ever exercising such direct authority as to forgive sins or refuse to forgive sins as if it was up to them? No. The evidence is that the apostles took this charge as an authority to preach and minister the gospel, as the way that people's sins are forgiven, or in other words, a a The ability to to proclaim what God has declared to be, but not the power to actually declare it to be themselves. The Bible commentator John Gill He explains it this way. God only can forgive sins. Christ, being God, has a power to do so likewise But he never communicated any such power to his apostles, nor did they ever assume any such power to themselves or pretend to exercise it. It is the mark of Antichrist to attempt anything of the kind, who in so doing usurps the divine prerogative, places himself in his seat, and shows himself as if he was God But this is understood only in a doctrinal or ministerial way, by preaching the full and free remission of sins. through the blood of Christ, according to the riches of God's grace, to any such as repent of their sins and believe in Christ. That's a good quote from John Gill. I think it does a good job of highlighting it. So this verse, it does highlight the high value and the sacred responsibility of gospel ministry. As a pastor, I feel the weight of this preaching and ministering the gospel is not to be taken lightly. It's nothing less than the exercise of the keys of the kingdom and the opportunity for eternal salvation for all who believe. When we withhold the gospel from someone out of fear or pride or hatred, we are shutting the door of the kingdom of God. We're shutting the doorway of eternal life in their faces. May we never do such a thing. Notice that John connects the promise of the Holy Spirit to two main things, peace and gospel mission. The Holy Spirit comes to every believer, bringing us peace with God, and sending us out to take the gospel to a world in need. The Holy Spirit brings peace and empowerment for gospel ministry. If we want to see the Holy Spirit work in our lives, if we want to know if the Holy Spirit is working in our lives, His presence and his power is always for these goals, that we might have peace and that we might minister the gospel in his power. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, thank you for calling us to faith in Jesus Christ, to forgiveness, to salvation. Thank you that others took their charge of gospel ministry seriously, and that's how we heard the gospel. And how we came to know Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. May we take seriously the commissioning, the charge, as well as the power that your Holy Spirit gives us to carry these things out We pray that we would be faithful and fruitful for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me as we're walking with Jesus through the gospel day by day Um look forward to tomorrow. Hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.