Wonderful, good news to celebrate. We're going to turn our attention now to God's Word. We are in Romans chapter three. Verses twenty-one to twenty-six. Romans chapter three, verses twenty-one to twenty-six This has been called by some Bible scholars the single most important paragraph in the whole Bible. And hopefully we'll see why this is the Word of God But now, the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by His grace as a gift. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Let's pray. Gracious Heavenly Father, your righteousness is perfect, complete, unfailing. It is as perfect as you are. And you have revealed that righteousness to us in Jesus Christ, to be received by faith. Speak to us. Show us Jesus that our hearts might believe, that our lives might believe. That we might be redeemed and changed. Encounter we have with you this morning, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated Well, good morning. It is uh it's wonderful to be here. This has been a long time coming, and uh there was a lot to work out. We're still working out some bugs as you have noticed, so we appreciate your patience. There's a thousand and one details and sometimes you get nine hundred and ninety-five of them right, and the other six are just floating out there waiting to be resolved. So that's kind of where we are, and so we appreciate your patience, but it is good to be with you. It is good to be behind a properly sized pulpit. This is like right where I need everything, except if I'm honest. This would have been perfect for me six years ago. And if you're my age, you know what I mean. The little bit lower pulpit we have have been using was a little bit better distance for reading, but we'll see how we do. All right, we've come to this wonderful place in the book of Romans. And just to sort of reorient you to where we've been and where we are. At the beginning of Romans, after Paul introduces himself and speaks of how he's been set apart for the gospel and how eager he is to preach the gospel to those who are in Rome, in Romans 1, 16 and 17, Paul gives what is the like the thesis statement, the main point, the the gist of the whole book of Romans And it's about the gospel. We were there a few weeks ago, about a month ago. I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith, for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. Now he got there and then he sort of took a detour for a couple of chapters and that's what we've been in for the last three weeks because The question gets raised, okay, it's the power of God for salvation, but salvation from what? What do we need to be saved from, and why do we need God's power to do the saving? Can't we just save ourselves? And so what he unpacks from 118 to 320 in these couple of chapters that we've been in for the last three weeks is what it is we need to be saved from, and that's the wrath of God That's revealed against all unrighteousness and ungodliness. And why it is that we can't not save ourselves? Because everything that we try to do is so shot through with sin that it's just bad. It's kind of like when a person is drowning, very often they'll start panicking. If they don't know how to swim or if they feel out of control, they'll start to panic. And in their panicking, they're thrashing around, and their thrashing around isn't actually doing them any good. And sometimes the lifeguard will come out to try to save them. And this person just wildly thrashing around because they're so scared and they're so panicked that they actually start hurting the lifeguard and keeping the lifeguard from saving them. And so the lifeguard will tell them, just stop. Relax. I've got you. And they need to let go. They need to stop their thrashing. To realize they can't save themselves. They're in a powerless position, and they submit themselves to the arms of the lifeguard who carries them to safety. It's an imperfect analogy, but that's very often what we need. So often when we're confronted with our sin, And our guilt, our natural human instinct, is to try to justify ourselves We don't want to be sinful and guilty. So we thrash about spiritually trying to justify ourselves. I I I can explain. No, you don't understand. I was just. But you know, I do lots of good things. And you know, I go to church, you know, I read my Bible. I was brought up in a Christian home. I can try harder. Just Just give me a chance, I can clear myself and it's just this thrashing around spiritually. And what really what Paul was doing in one eighteen to three twenty was saying No, no, no, no, no. Nothing you do can save you. You really are that bad. You really do need saving. So stop. And the conclusion of it all was what we looked at last week when he gets to 319 and 20. He says the end of it all is Look, under the law of God, whether that's the written law of God that's contained in scriptures or just the law of God written on your heart and speaking to you through your conscience, whatever form the law of God comes to you, it tells you But you're without excuse. Because the goal of that is that every mouth would be silenced. You would have nothing to say, and the whole world is accountable to God. That's the conclusion. Everyone knows God's standard in some form or another, and whatever people know about God's standard is enough. To bring them to a place where they have to say, I am guilty, I know it, there's nothing I can do about it, and I am accountable before God for my guilt. But now. You see, at that point, we're ready for those two words. But now That's the hinge that changes everything. And that's why this paragraph is so incredibly important, because it is the good news that necessarily follows the bad news once we have come to accept it But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. And if you look at that Part of verse 21, and you go all the way back to 1, 16, and 17, you'll see that what Paul is doing here is he's picking up on the main point of Romans. Why is the gospel the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes? Verse 17, for in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. We've come to the solution. The solution is the righteousness of God. We don't have any of our own. We never could get any of our own because we just keep digging a hole deeper for ourselves the harder we try. Our motives are selfish, our actions are flawed, but there is the righteousness of God. There is no flaw In the righteousness of God. The righteousness of God is completely perfect. It is as perfect as God Himself is perfect. And so the righteousness of God has been manifested, but it's apart from the law. Although, Paul says, the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith. In Jesus Christ for all who believe. Again, that's the same exact language as Romans 1, 16, and 17. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, for there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. So Paul's telling us the law cannot give us the righteousness we need. But the law and the prophets lead us to it. They don't give it to us. And if we're looking to the law to give us the righteousness we need, it'll never come that way. But if we listen to the law and the prophets, they will lead us to it. God gave us his law written on tablets of stone. on the hearts of all people, even people who can't read, even people who don't have a Bible, he's written his law there. The moral law of God says that we should love. That we should love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and we should love our neighbor as ourselves. That we should not Neglect God and be irreverent. We should also not neglect or abuse our neighbors in any way and be unloving. That's what the law of God testifies to to all of us. But we can't do it. But if we listen to what is written In Scripture. The law and the prophets, now we're going beyond just that law that might be written on someone's heart. Now you have to go to Scripture. The law and the prophets is more specifically saying the Scripture that God has given will testify, will bear witness, or will lead you to the righteousness you need. Jesus confronted the Pharisees and the spiritual leaders of Israel in his day in John chapter 5 because they opposed him. They challenged him. They questioned him. They refused to believe in him. And he said to them in John 5, You search the scriptures. Because you believe that in them you will have eternal life. But it is they that testify about me And yet you will not come to me. You see, Jesus was confronting the same problem in the Pharisees and the religious leaders that Paul's talking about here. You're not going to find a way to be righteous. By doing what the Bible tells you to do. Do goodism, even biblical do-good-ism will not make you righteous, but it will lead you to Jesus. How does it lead you to Jesus? Well, the moral law leads you to Jesus because it shows you the righteous character of God. We don't measure up to it. But Jesus perfectly fulfilled the moral law of God. We don't love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, but Jesus loved his Father and did everything the Father told him to do. He said, My will is to do the will of him who sent me. That's my delight. My food is to do the work that God has given me to do and to accomplish his purposes. Jesus loves his Father and lived for his father perfectly. We don't love others as we should, but Jesus' whole life was a life of loving others. He patiently taught He healed. He cast out demons. He fed the hungry. He showed them his power. And ultimately he offered himself up on the cross. We don't keep God's law, but Jesus fulfilled God's law. And so the moral law of God shows us a picture of Jesus, a picture of the righteousness that we need. But there's more to the law and prophets than just the moral law of God. There's also the ceremonial law of God. You ever read the Old Testament and you think, what is all this weird stuff about sacrifices? and priests and holy days and clean and unclean. There's a lot of rules and regulations, a lot of these weird things that we don't do anymore. Why is this even in the Bible? How does this help us? Well, the short answer is it points you to your need for Jesus and how Jesus fulfills that need. Again, it won't save you. You could offer up all the sacrifices, keep all the holy days, keep all the holiness codes. It would never save you. But it shows you some things. It shows you that God is holy and that He requires His people to be holy It shows you that the only way to be holy is through a sacrifice that will cover your sin and cleanse you, and a high priest who will intercede for you. And Jesus comes and fulfills all of that in himself. He is our holiness who makes us holy before God. He is the perfect sacrifice. That takes away all of our sin. He is our high priest who never stops praying for us. He is the fulfillment of the ceremonial law. If we will let the ceremonial law lead us to him. And finally, the prophets. The prophets come along later and they prophesy about the coming promised one who's going to rescue and redeem God's people. Tells us. That he's going to be born of a virgin in the town of Bethlehem, and he's going to minister in Galilee, and he's going to be despised and rejected by the people, and he's going to be pierced in his hands and his feet, and that all of this will be done for our forgiveness And so the law and the prophets, they can't give us righteousness, but they lead us to it. Then how is the righteousness of God given to us? Well, let's read on. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by His grace as a gift. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. One of the important things that we need to know that will help us to see connections here that are a little more obvious in the original Greek than they are in our language, is that the root word for righteousness and justification is the same word And so when Paul says the righteousness of God has been manifested, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ, and then he says, we are justified by his grace, we might think, well, he shifted Topics. He was talking about the righteousness of God, and now he's talking about justification. But the same root word is under both. In other words, another way to understand justification Is that it's the righteous of a person. The righteousness of God is revealed, received through faith in Jesus Christ, and that righteousness Righteous us. It justifies us. It makes us righteous before God. That's what justify means When we try to justify ourselves, we're trying to somehow prove that we are righteous, but God says, no, here's a righteousness that you can receive as a gift through faith in Jesus Christ, who is the righteousness of God revealed. His grace comes to us as a gift through the redemption. The redemption That is in Christ Jesus. The fact that it comes by his grace as a gift shows that there's nothing we can do at all to merit it. We can't earn it. We can't buy it. But here's the thing about a gift. If someone gives you a gift, you know that you're not supposed to pay for it. It's a gift. I think we've talked about this before. If I were to give you a gift and then you were to say, oh thank you, how much do I owe you for that? Would say you misunderstand the whole nature of what a gift is. But there's another thing about a gift that we all know, and that is while a gift is free to the recipient of the gift, it's paid for by the giver. And the more expensive the gift, the higher the price must be paid by the giver. And that's why the gift of righteousness received by faith comes through the redemption. That is in Christ Jesus. Redemption is the word that talks about the price that Jesus paid to set us free. A redemption price is a price that you would pay to set someone free from prison or from slavery, from condemnation. The worse the offense, the more serious, the higher the redemption price was. And so ultimately the Bible says, look, if a person's under a sentence of death because of a capital crime, what kind of redemption could be paid? Who could ransom the life of a man? That's beyond money. But that's what Jesus did. The redemption price that Jesus paid is everything he did To save us. It begins by him becoming human. What do we lack before God? What do we lack before God? What do we keep trying to prove that we might have, but we can't? Righteousness. But a real, genuine human righteousness. The righteousness of God is his own righteousness. We need a human righteousness, a righteousness that could be for us. So Jesus became fully human so that he could earn as a human a perfect human righteousness. So he lived a life of sinless obedience. He did everything God required. He fulfilled the law Not just so he could say, see, I'm perfect. But so that he could say, see, I'm perfect for you. And I'm going to give it to you as a gift. And that took place on the cross. When Jesus gave his life as an offering for sin, he both gave us his righteousness and he cleansed us by his blood. There was a great exchange that took place on the cross. And that great exchange is in these words redemption and also this even more obscure word that we don't use very often, propitiation. That we see in verse 25, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. The price of the redemption that Jesus made on the cross was to be a propitiation for us. What in the world is a propitiation? It is a sacrifice that satisfies divine wrath. It's a sacrifice that satisfies divine wrath. Propitiation takes the just anger of God that we deserve because of our sin and puts it on Jesus instead. But it also, the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, his death on the cross, it also does something for us. It propitiates the wrath of God. It appeases the wrath of God, satisfies the wrath of God, but it also does something for us, and that it expiates our sin. Now I'm using big words here today, and I don't always use big words in sermons, but these are two really important words. They're actually two of the most beautiful words that you could ever really think about Because they deal with what Jesus accomplished on the cross and how it satisfies the justice of God and also how it cleanses us. of all of our guilt. Now to help us understand this, God gave us a picture of this, a drama of this In the Old Testament, in that sacrificial law. Remember I said that Jesus fulfilled the ceremonial law? Well, the High Holy Day, the pinnacle, the peak of all the ceremonial law was Yom Kippur. You guys have heard of Yom Kippur, right? It's the Day of Atonement. And on the Day of Atonement, there was a very special thing that the high priest did with two goats. And in doing this, God's giving us a picture of what Jesus accomplished for us on the cross. He's giving us a picture of what propitiation looks like and what expiation looks like. These two very important words. And here's how it goes. The high priest takes two goats. Now they have to be spotless goats. They have to be male goats. They have to be of age. They have to be without defect. All that's important. Jesus was a fully man, fully mature. He'd come to full adulthood, and he was without sin. One of those goats gets slaughtered, and the blood of that goat is sprinkled. It's sprinkled on the people, yes, but it's also sprinkled on the altar, and it's sprinkled in the sanctuary, in the holy place, and then on this one day And only by the high priest, he actually would go into the Holy of Holies, into the very presence of God, and he would sprinkle the mercy seat that sat above the Ark of the Covenant. He would sprinkle the mercy seat, God's very footstool, with the blood of this sacrificed goat. That is a picture of propitiation. God is holy. Inside the Ark of the Covenant was the Ten Commandments, the law of God. God is holy. And if God's going to have mercy, it requires the sacrifice. The shed blood of the innocent substitute. The other goat, the high priest lays his hands on the goat. symbolically transferring the sins of the people to that goat and then sends the goat out into the wilderness outside the camp where the goat is then killed. That is a picture of expiation. The sins of God's people placed on the head of a sacrificial substitute and then sent away. By the way, this is why Jesus had to be put on trial in front of the high priest. He had to be examined by the high priest, and it had to be obvious and evident to the high priest that he was without sin. They got a couple of people to say, well, he said he was gonna tear down the temple and rebuild it in three days, and then finally Jesus said You will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of glory. And they said, Oh, so you are the Son of God then? He said, You've said it. So really what they condemned him for was Saying who he was. That's not a sin. It's not a sin to say who you are. That's all they got him on. In other words, he's totally innocent. And he was examined by the priest to be innocent. And then what do they do? They sent him outside the camp. They sent him outside the walls of the city, and there he was killed for the sins of the people. The high priest even said It is better for one man to die on behalf of the people than that the whole people perish. And that was given to him by God. He didn't realize what he was saying. So that's the picture. That the blood of the of the of the sacrificial substitute that sprinkles the very presence of God is propitiation. God's just wrath is satisfied And then the scapegoat is expiation. Our sin is taken away. Why is this so important? Why do I say these are the two most beautiful words or two of the most beautiful words you can think about? Because if you think about it, it solves our biggest problem And it also solves God's biggest problem. They say, wait a minute, God doesn't have any problems. If you pay attention, there's actually a tension, a problem, a conflict within the very character of God and his dealings with his people. One place that we see it is in Exodus thirty-four, when God reveals his character to Moses. In Exodus thirty-four, Moses has said, Lord, I want to see your glory. And God says, No, nobody can see my glory and live, but I'll tell you what I'll do. I'm going to hide you in a cleft in the rock. And I'm going to let all my goodness pass before you, and there I will proclaim the name of the Lord. I'll proclaim my name to you. So that happens. And then, Exodus 34, verse 5, the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. The Lord passed by before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty Visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and on the children's children to the third and fourth generation. Did you catch the problem? I'll focus in on it a little more tightly. God says that he is forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. But who will by no means clear the guilty. Well, how are you going to do that, Lord? How are you going to forgive? Iniquity, that's wickedness, and transgression, active law breaking and sin falling short of God's holy standard. How are you going to forgive iniquity and transgression and sin, but not Clear the guilty. In other words, not just sweep it under the rug and let it go. How are you going to do that? In other words, how can God be just and holy and uphold his holy justice and yet Justify sinful people. Or in the language of Romans 3, how can he be just and the justifier? That's a problem. And it's a problem that propitiation solves. Because Jesus dying in our place as a willing, sinless, substitute sacrifice of infinite worth He takes all of our sin upon himself. He appeases the wrath of God so that the sin is dealt with justly. God does not sweep wickedness under the rug. Some people say, well, God has to forgive me. That's his job. God is not unjust. God must punish all sin. And He does At the cross, he punishes all of the sin of everyone who would believe in him. He also solves our greatest problem in that we are forgiven. And cleansed. Forgiven of our guilt and cleansed of our sin, of our shame. We have guilt, objectively speaking, because we've broken God's law. We also have shame over the filth and the ick that that puts on us. That's a theological word, ick. You spell it I C K It's like we're we're not only objectively legally guilty, we understand the evidence is presented, our defense doesn't hold water, every mouth is silenced. Whole world held accountable to God. That's guilt, objective guilt before God. But also we know that we're dirty. We're contaminated. We feel shame Expiation solves that. It says your guilt and shame are removed forever. You understand how wonderful that is? How beautiful that is. God can still be God. He can still be holy. He can still be just. He doesn't have to compromise his character. He can't compromise his character. He cannot un-God himself. And his divine character is fully satisfied, and we get completely forgiven and completely cleansed because of what Jesus did for us, not because of what we've done. That's the gospel. That's why this is the most wonderful paragraph, because it tells us how it's possible that God can save sinners and yet still be holy God. And it's the cross. It's the redemption. It's the propitiation. It's the expiation. It's the purchase of our salvation by the blood of Jesus Christ. There is no greater gift, there is no higher price, there is no greater benefit that could ever be given. And it's our salvation. So what do we do with that? It's true. It's true. Listen to me. It's true whether you believe it or not. Because it is an accomplished fact that Jesus Christ, the sinless Son of God, died on the cross. To satisfy divine justice and to cleanse all of those who would come to him by faith, that is, that happened. You saying, well I don't believe that doesn't change that it happened. I don't believe that the Dodgers won another World Series last night. But it happened. This is truth. So what do we do with it? How do we respond? Well, let me suggest very quickly five ways we need to live in the light of this truth. First and foremost, we need to live by faith. We need to live by believing in Jesus, by trusting in him. And not ourselves. If you're here this morning and you have never trusted in Jesus Christ, you've never turned to him, you've never said to him You're the power of God for salvation. You're the righteousness of God that I need. You're the forgiveness I need. You and you alone. I trust in you alone. If you've never said that, say that to him right now Take time right now. You can stop listening to me. You can close your eyes. You can bow your head and in your heart say, Lord, I believe in you. Save me. You have to live by faith. But faith is not a one-time thing. You have to go on living by faith. Keep trusting in Jesus. Because the devil, he doesn't give up. He'll come at you. You call yourself a Christian. I heard what you said. I saw what you did. And all that guilt and all that shame, you have to say, expiation. It's all been expiated by the blood of Christ. It's all been cleansed. It's all gone. I am forgiven, I am free. Jesus said, believe in God, believe also in me. We need to live that way. We need to live by faith. Secondly, connected to this, we need to live as free and forgiven people. Sometimes we as Christians will say things like, I'm not perfect, just forgiven. And that's true. But you're more than just forgiven. You have been redeemed. You have been set free. A slave who was in slavery but has been redeemed through a redemption price should not go on living as a slave anymore. That's coming in chapter 6. You were a slave to sin. Jesus paid the price to set you free. You are free. You do not have to serve sin anymore. You do not have to live in shame anymore. You are not trapped by the prison of sin. You are not under the sentence of condemnation. So live as joyful, free, forgiven people. Live that way. And that should be the third thing. Live as thankful people. God paid the highest possible price for your forgiveness. Listen, if somebody if somebody bought you a brand new vehicle of your choice Whatever that is. They bought it, they paid for it, and they gave it to you as a gift Every time you got in that vehicle and you started it and you drove it, you would be thankful to that person. And that's just a little car that's like Not gonna last forever. But you would remember and you would be thankful. God paid the highest price. Jesus laid down his life. He didn't owe us anything. We could never put them in our debt, but you've been justified by grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. So be thankful. Be thankful. The fourth, out of that gratitude, live as obedient people. Obey the Lord. You don't have to be a slave to sin anymore, but you should obey the Lord. Obey God in love and gratitude, in faith, trusting in Jesus. The gospel is wonderful. The gospel of Jesus Christ, his salvation of us, sets us free from the two traps that we're always falling in. The trap of self-righteousness, but also the trap of lawlessness. We're set free from self-righteousness. We can't justify ourselves, we know it. But we're also set free from lawlessness. We're not just going to go out and live like Lawless people, because that's wrong, and we don't want to offend the God who saved us. Only through Jesus Christ and his redemption are we free to obey God from a heart of love, not because we're trying to earn something from him. Parents, it's November. You know what's coming next month This is a time of year when small children, and not so small children, will Start being extra obedient and compliant. But it's not out of a heart of love, I was I hate to tell you. Because they're really hoping for that thing that they really want, you know? And It's mercenary. It really is. It's mercenary people pleasing. I know if I take out the trash, I know if I clean up after dinner, I know if I'm extra nice, then that's probably going to go better for me on that particular day coming up next month. The gospel frees us of that because everything has already been given to us. Now we can just obey out of a heart of love. Just say, I love you because you first loved me, and I love to obey you because I love you. So live by faith, live as free and forgiven people, live as thankful people, live as obedient people, and finally live as gospel ambassadors. Tell others joyfully about Jesus and about what He's done to set you free. Tell them about their need and tell them about how Jesus alone can meet that need. There's no better news, there's no better gift, there's no more transforming reality than the gospel that's summarized for us in this paragraph. We have been given the righteousness of God. In Jesus Christ, received by faith, and now we are forgiven and free. Amen? Let's pray. Father, thank you for the gift of your Son Jesus Christ. Jesus, thank you for laying down your life for us. We are so thankful. So thankful because we were lost, we were cut off, we were without hope, we were under condemnation. And yet you did the work. To forgive us and free us, to redeem us forever. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. May we live as your people, live by faith, live free and forgiven and thankful and obedient and on mission for you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.