We are continuing our summer series in the Psalms. Finding refuge in the Lord, secure in the Lord is the official title of our summer series. And we are in Psalm 11. This morning, Psalm eleven Hear the Word of God. To the choirmaster of David. In the Lord I take refuge. How can you say to my soul, Flee like a bird to your mountain, for behold the wicked bend the bow. They have fitted their arrow to the string to shoot in the the dark at the upright in heart. If the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do? The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord's throne is in heaven. His eyes see. His eyelids test the children of man. The Lord tests the righteous But his soul hates the wicked, and the one who loves violence. Let him rain coals on the wicked, fire and sulphur and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup. For the Lord is righteous, he loves righteous deeds, the upright shall behold his face. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is truth, strong, powerful, and so helpful to us. beneficial to teach us, to correct us, to train us. Father, we pray that by your Holy Spirit you would speak And move and act in each of our hearts personally and in the life of this church together, that Psalm 11 might become The way we respond to fear and danger and stress and anxiety That we might become more faithful, that we might be people who are focused on you. So work in our hearts during this time that we have together. We pray this in Jesus' name and for His glory. Amen. You may be seated. All right, I have a question for you. Do you make better decisions when you're angry or when you're afraid? Well, that's a tough question, right? Probably the answer is neither, if we're honest. Well, today in Psalm 11, we once again come to David, the man after God's own heart, in distress. Last week in Psalm 4, we saw David in distress, and he was urging his followers to be angry, but not to sin in their anger. Today, it's David's advisors who are speaking to him, and they are speaking out of fear. And they are urging him to take quick and decisive action out of fear. Last week I said that the old saying is that idle hands are the devil's workshop, and there's a lot of truth in that. But I said that an angry spirit Is the devil's playground. Because he can have so much fun with us if we are angry because we're easy to manipulate. And I'll add one to that. If idle hands are the devil's workshop and an angry soul is the devil's playground, Then a fearful heart can often be the devil's racetrack, where he can drive us to exhaustion and surrender When our fight or flight response is triggered by something in our lives, it could be something we see on the news or something we see on on social media or something that happens in our marriage relationship or something that happens with one of our kids or with our jobs, whatever it is. it it triggers us with this stress reaction, this fight or flight response. You know, the fight or flight response focuses us intensely and gets our adrenaline rushing, and there's a very narrow and a very intense focus. And if you're in an actual survival situation, that can be helpful because you can run faster And you can be more intense and more vigorous in your action to save yourself. But if you're not actually in this imminent physical danger, but you're just dealing with a stressful situation. It can be very unhelpful because you can feel this urgent desire to do something. Right? You might get angry and you want to you want to fight. You want to just make it right. I'm going to fix this right now. Or you just think this is beyond me. I can't do anything about this. I'm going to run away and hide And neither one of those responses is faithful. They both leave us open to Satan's manipulation. And so David, in responding to his advisors, who are speaking to him, the words that are quoted, the last line of verse 1 through verse 3, is a quote. from his advisors, his response, the opening line of this psalm is, In the Lord I take refuge In the Lord I take refuge. What is refuge? It's a safe place. It's a stronghold. It's a place where you feel secure. It's also a place where you find peace. And where you find calmness of spirit in the Lord, in Yahweh, in the great I Am In my covenant, Lord, I take refuge. That's his answer to the voice of fear. Fear says this, flee like a bird to your mountain, for behold, the wicked bend the bow. They have fitted their arrow to the string to shoot in the dark at the upright in heart If the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do? That's the voice of fear. And while it may not be those particular words, we know that voice very well. It's a voice to summarize. The message is run away. Watch out. Oh no! What are we going to do? And it can come prompted by a wide variety of things in our lives. When we feel overwhelmed Our fleshly response is typically to do one of three things. Get angry and take matters into our own hands Get fearful and run away and hide, or get depressed and shut down These are natural. They come to us automatically. They are almost a reflex response to a stressful situation. And they speak to us most loudly when the situation is most dire, this fight back When we feel most threatened, or when the threat seems overwhelming, run away. Or when we don't feel like we have the strength or the energy to either fight or run away, just shut down. Just give up Very often the reason why they catch us is because they're not entirely lying to us, these voices of anger and fear and depression. They're telling us the truth. Just not all of it They're telling us the truth. David really was in danger. His advisors would not have been coming to him and saying, flee like a bird to your mountain. For behold, the wicked bend the bow, they fitted their string to the arrow to shoot in the dark at the upright in the heart. If the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do? They wouldn't have been saying that. If there wasn't cause to say it, they weren't madmen. They weren't paranoid people. As my dad used to tell me, just because you are paranoid doesn't mean they're not out to get you This probably it fits at least with the same situation we looked at last week of Absalom's rebellion. You don't know who to trust. You don't know who's on Absalom's side and who's on your side. The foundations destroyed, yeah. The priesthood, the tabernacle, the ark, the throne, these are the foundations of the people of God, seemingly. And they're now in enemy hands. The foundations are destroyed. They're telling the truth. Just not all of it. Just not all of it. Because even when the wicked do indeed bend their bow to shoot in the dark at the upright in our heart, even when the foundations are being destroyed, and we all have reason to see that and to affirm that in our culture, in our lives. But it's missing a very important piece of truth. Jesus said in John ten The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life. And have it abundantly. There's two truths happening at the same time. The thief, oh, he's active. Is he seeking to steal, kill, and destroy? Absolutely. Is he at work in your life? You better believe it. Because if you don't believe it, that means you're also vulnerable. He is at work in your marriage. He is at work in the lives of your kids. He is at work in our culture. He is at work In your own mind and desires, he is at work to steal, to kill, and destroy. But Christ has come And he has come to give us abundant life. And in John 10, this is in the context of Jesus saying, I am the good shepherd. And so, are there wolves? Yes. But is there a shepherd? Yes. Yes. And so when David responds, verse 4, the central two lines of the whole psalm is David's response. His opening statement is that he takes refuge in the Lord, but in verse 4 he tells us why it is that he can take refuge in the Lord. This really is the heart of the Psalm. Two key lines. The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord's throne is in heaven. I've said this several times, but I think it's so important because it helps to unlock the Psalms and a lot of Hebrew poetry and will help unlock so much of the Bible for you. But look at these two lines. The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord's throne is in heaven. They are exactly in the middle of this Psalm. There are eight lines ahead of them. There are eight lines after them. The middle is the heart. That's the main point. And it is a truth about what is true on earth as it is in heaven. On earth, the Lord is in his holy temple. In heaven, the Lord's throne is in heaven. On earth, the presence of the Lord is still in the midst of his people. To manifest his glory and to work for their good. If David was on the run, if he was driven from Jerusalem, he says the Lord is still present. The Ark of the Covenant, the tabernacle, the Holy City, the Lord is still present, even if the enemy has moved in. And above all earthly powers, enthroned on an unshakable throne, the Lord is the sovereign ruler from heaven Now we translate this to the New Testament. What is the temple? The Lord is in his holy temple. What is the temple in the New Testament? Well, the New Testament teaches us two things that are related and connected, and that is Each believer is a temple of the Holy Spirit. When Paul was teaching the Corinthians that they needed to abstain from the sexual immorality that was so rampant in their culture, we wouldn't know anything about that, would we? He was teaching them that they can't participate in the sexual immorality of their culture for a very simple reason. 1 Corinthians 6. 19, do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God. You are not your own. Your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit When Paul was praying for the Ephesian believers at the end of Ephesians chapter 3, he prayed that according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. By faith, Christ lives in the heart of every believer. Through the indwelling power and presence of the Holy Spirit, you are a temple of the Holy Spirit. That is a personal promise for you individually as a believer. And yet While the gospel is personal and it is individual, it is never individualistic. It is never isolated individuals. And so what the New Testament teaches is that the church Is the new and living temple that Christ is building. Jesus, in response to Peter's confession of faith, said, On this rock I will build my church. And the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Christ is building his church. And so twice In the New Testament, we have explicit teaching that it is the church that is the new and living temple. In Ephesians 2 and in 1 Peter 2. In Ephesians 2, we're told through him We both, that is Jew and Gentile, we both have access in one spirit to the Father, so then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints. and members of the household of God built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone in whom the whole structure being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. That's Ephesians 2, 18-22. And then 1 Peter 2, as you come to him a living stone Rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious, you yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood. to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. So when we read the Lord is in his holy temple, this is both a personal promise Jesus says, I will never leave you, I will never forsake you. Jesus says, I'm the good shepherd, no one can take you out of my hand. But it's also, very powerfully, a promise for the church that when we are gathered together, when we are the church, we are the body of Christ, He is in our midst, He is working in us and through us and among us. And that we will prevail over the gates of hell. The church will. So we go out from here and we go throughout our week. We are going with the knowledge that Christ is with us, that we are the temple. And that the Lord is in his holy temple. But then we regather for worship on the Lord's Day, and we are re-energized as the Lord is present among us. even more powerfully. And when we take the Lord's Supper, we are given even more reminder and an even better taste of His presence among us and in us. Notice we take the Lord's Supper individually And personally, but we take it together as the body of Christ. This is a powerful truth. And who is this Lord who is among us? He is the one who sits on his throne in heaven. Jesus is not on the ballot in November. He's not going to be voted in or out of office. Amen? He is not impeachable. He is not removable. He is not to be shaken or overthrown. The Lord's throne is in heaven and he reigns supreme. And that's the Lord who is with us. And we are his and he is ours. We are his body, he is our head. We are his sheep, he is our shepherd. We are his temple, he is our God. And that will never change. And when everything seems topsy-turvy and we're stressed and we're wanting to respond, we need to remember what we confessed earlier. What is your only comfort in life and death that I am not my own? I am not my own, but I belong body and soul in life and in death to my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. I'm his, and he's mine. Now, the Lord is not just in heaven and in our midst. He is active. He is working. And he is actively working differently toward the wicked than he is toward the righteous. Verses 5 and 6, the Lord tests the righteous, but his soul hates the wicked, and the one who loves violence. Let him rain coals on the wicked. Fire and sulfur and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup. Now we might struggle with this language. We might think. Wow, God hates the wicked? His soul hates the wicked? And the one who loves violence. I thought God loved everybody. Rain coals on the wicked, fire and sulfur? That seems so Old Testament. This is why this Old Testament God just makes us uncomfortable. All this judgment, all of this wrath But then we come to the New Testament and find that God doesn't actually change, which is a good thing. God is unchanging. The best way to understand and apply Old Testament passages is by bringing them through the lens of the New Testament and then into our lives. For this one, we can go to Romans 12. It uses some of the same language of Psalm 11. Romans 12, verses 17 to 21. And here Paul writes to the church in Rome, really to all of us, how do we live out the gospel in our lives? Especially when it regards enemies who hate God and who oppose the gospel. How do we live that out? Well, here's Romans 12, 17 to 21. Repay no one evil for evil. But give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink, for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. The Bible never assumes That we're going to live in a world where there's no enemies, or where the gospel is being celebrated, or where evil is quiet The Bible always knows and teaches us to be prepared to live in a world where there are real enemies of the gospel, there is real evil, there is real wickedness. And God is not a God who delights in wickedness. God is just and holy, and God will judge wickedness. But He calls us to love our enemies. He calls us to do good to those who persecute us. He calls us to repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. He calls us to to feed our hungry enemy, to give something to drink to our thirsty enemy. How can we do that? We don't do that thinking that somehow our doing good is going to overcome our enemies Rather, the good that overcomes the evil is the goodness of God and the justice of God. We can live peaceably with all. We cannot avenge ourselves because we can trust our cause and the cause of God's people to the wrath of God. The Lord knows how to keep his own. The Lord knows what we need. We don't have to fight or flight as though we're on our own. We're not. Sometimes God removes the enemies of his people by bringing them to faith in Jesus and making them his children. He did that for the Apostle Paul, who wrote Romans 12. He had been a violent persecutor of the church. He had been one of the leaders and the most zealous of arresting and imprisoning Christians. He had held the coats of those who stoned the first martyr Stephen, and yet the Lord took him from being an enemy to being the most effective missionary the church has ever seen. To being a leader and a champion for Christ until the point where he was eventually put to death for his testimony for Jesus. So sometimes the Lord can rescue us from our enemies by making them our brothers and sisters in Christ. And we should pray for that, and we should work toward that, and we should rejoice if we ever see that. At other times, he can cut short the lives of the enemies of his people, like he did with King Herod in Acts 12. Who glorified himself and didn't give glory to God and he was eaten up by worms from the inside out? Or Emperor Nero himself, the guy who beheaded the Apostle Paul and had Peter and Andrew put to death on crosses. He ended up killing himself at the age of 30, that violent opponent of the people of God. Adolf Hitler ended up committing suicide in nineteen forty-five with his dream of a thousand-year Reich crashing down all around him. But you know, at other times At other times, God allows the enemies of his people to live long and prosperous lives and to apparently never repent of their evil. People like Joseph Stalin or Mao Tse Tung, responsible for the lives of millions of believers being killed. But you know what? They still faced God's justice in the end. There is no escape from the judgment seat of God. And so that is why we can be confident because we are not our own. We are his. And he knows how to take care of us. He'll do what needs to be done. And whatever he decides to do will be good. Whatever he decides to do. It may not be what we would have decided, but he will decide to do what is good. But you know, our hope in times of distress is not just that God's going to judge the wicked. It's also that he watches over and blesses his own. And this is where Psalm 11 ends. For the Lord is righteous. He loves righteous deeds. The upright shall behold his face. As we come to the final verse, the hopeful conclusion of this psalm, we see our hope. Is that the Lord will regard us as righteous and upright, which is another way of saying righteous, and that in the end he will love us and we will see his face. And here we need to realize how important it is for us to read all of the Psalms and all of Psalm 11 in the light of Christ. Because really, if you take Psalm eleven and you don't have Christ, Psalm 11 could lead you to being either arrogantly self-righteous or being despairing. Because Psalm eleven makes a very hard and fast distinction between the righteous and the wicked, and the way the Lord treats the righteous and the way he treats the wicked, and the reward of the righteous and the punishment of the the wicked and you could either say, surely God is wise enough to see that I am righteous. And you could pray like this. Lord, I thank you that I am not like those people. I am in church every Sunday. I put up with Pastor Jason's 45-minute sermons. I give a full tithe in the offering plate, and I Am a good citizen. That was the prayer of the Pharisee that the Lord didn't regard. Or you could end up saying, I'm glad that the Lord loves the righteous And that the upright will behold his face, but I know that I'm not righteous and I'm not upright. And I guess I'm wicked, and I guess I've got burning coals coming on my head. Because I know the ways that I've broken God's laws, the way that I continue to break God's laws, I know better, and yet I don't do I guess I'm wicked. And so without Christ, Psalm 11 becomes either grounds for arrogant self-righteousness or ground for hopeless despair. But here's the key. The refuge we have in the Lord is Christ Jesus, the righteous one, who God made sin. For us, 2 Corinthians 5. 21, God made him who knew no sin to become sin for us, so that through him we might become the righteousness of God. Only the cross where Jesus takes all of our wickedness upon himself and he suffers the wrath of God in our place. And he gives us all of his righteousness so that we are clothed with the righteousness of Christ. Only that allows us To pray and live Psalm 11 in a way that is not self-righteous, but is Christ-centered and God glorifying, because we can say this: who is our refuge? Only Christ. Who is the refuge we need both from the judgment of God and from the unfair attacks of wicked people? Who is on his throne in heaven, King Jesus reigns. as King of kings and Lord of Lords. Who are the righteous? The righteous are only those who are in Christ. Romans 3. 10 says, There is no one righteous, not even one. Our only righteousness before God is the Lord Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He is our only righteousness. And our hope, our hope is that as we are found righteous in Christ, we will behold his face. As we are found righteous in Christ, that when it is all said and done, we will see his face, face to face with Jesus And free from sin forever. So as we wrap up, look with me at the opening line, the middle two lines, and the last line. In the Lord I take refuge. The Lord is in his holy temple, the Lord's throne is in heaven, the upright shall behold his face. In Christ Jesus we take refuge. Christ Jesus is present with us and in his church. He is on his throne in heaven as King of kings, and he is coming again And when he comes again, we will see him face to face. That is what we need to remind ourselves of and be anchored by whenever the stress gets us to where we just want to fight Or flight or give up. Jesus gives us every reason for hope and joy. Let's pray. Father, thank you for such a savior. Thank you for such a refuge. Thank you for such perfect righteousness. May we belong to Jesus by faith And be found in him, not having a righteousness of our own that comes from the law, but that which has come through Jesus Christ. The righteousness that comes by grace to all who believe, that we might stand before you as your dearly loved children, and that we might trust you in every season of our lives until we We are face to face with you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen