With that sung prayer, let's turn our attention to the Word of God. Psalm 14 is our passage this morning as we continue our summer series in the Psalms Secure in the Lord. Psalm fourteen is written to the choir master of David. The fool says in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt. They do abominable deeds. There is none who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is none who does good, not even one. Have they no knowledge? All the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon the Lord? There they are in great terror. For God is with the generation of the righteous. You would shame the plans of the poor, but the Lord is his refuge. Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion. When the Lord restores the fortunes of his people, let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad. Let's pray. Father, your word is truth and powerful, and penetrating Renewing our minds, changing our hearts by the power of your Holy Spirit. So we come to you and we ask that you would do the work in us by your Spirit. That your work, that your word was given to do. To correct us where we're going astray, to convict us where we need to repent, to strengthen us where we are weak and faltering. To train us up in godliness, to establish our faith and our hope firmly in you. Speak now, O Lord. Work, Holy Spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. May be seated. I wonder what is your favorite hymn or worship song? And could you explain why if you were asked? What is mine? Depends on the day. The one we're singing right now. Probably if you pinned me down and said, name one that is your absolute favorite hymn, I probably would say, And can it be? Love, and can it be? And of the more modern worship songs that we sing, yet not I, but through Christ in me, is also Very powerful. Both of these rich gospel content, just focus on the grace of God in Jesus Christ, saving us, keeping us, transforming us. You know, I also love praise to the Lord the Almighty. Uh wonderful majestic praise based on Psalm one hundred three. I also love it as well with my soul for the comfort uh and assurance that it brings, particularly In difficult times. You know, we all have our favorite hymns and worship songs, and sometimes it depends on how we're feeling as to which one we turn to for whatever reason. But I'm guessing that The words of Psalm 14, the fool says in his heart, There is no God, they are corrupt, they do abominable deeds, there is none who does good. That's probably not something that you think would be your favorite hymn or favorite worship song. But here's the interesting thing about Psalm 14. It's the only Psalm That is essentially repeated almost word for word. It's about 90% repeated in Psalm 53. So if you just keep your spot at Psalm 14 and just turn over to Psalm 53, you'll see. The fool says in his heart, There is no God, they are corrupt, doing abominable deeds, there is no one who does good. In fact, they're exactly the same until you get down to about verse five. And then there's some variation in the last few verses, but it's about 90% repeated. So of the 150 Psalms that God gave us, this is the one that He said, we're going to put it in there twice. And they're apparently set to two different tunes because Psalm 53 mentions being set to uh Mahaloth, which we have no idea what that sounded like, but the tune's not named here. So it probably is, you know, we're going to take these words Modify them a little bit, set them to a new tune, because we want to sing that one again. This is not one that we would look at and say, I want to sing that one again about how abominable the deeds of men are. About how no one is good. Not even one. Not even one. You know, like, wow, thanks. Not only that, not only are we getting it repeated twice within 150 Psalms, but in the New Testament and Romans 3, when Paul is laying out one of the most important chapters in the Bible of the the need for justification, the need for righteousness before God. Verses 2 and 3 of Psalm 14 form the heart of Paul's argument that we're going to look at later about how we need Christ and his righteousness because we don't have any of our own. You see, we need to understand The nature of our condition if we are going to look and seek and receive the salvation that is in Jesus Christ If we think we're pretty good people, who live pretty decent lives, and we're okay, I'm okay, you're okay, can't we all just get along? And if there's a God who's at all reasonable or fair, surely he's going to look at my life and say, yeah, yeah, you're alright. I mean you're not perfect, but nobody's perfect. But yeah, you're alright. As long as that's the kind of thinking, and that is the kind of thinking that dominates human beings, as long as that is the kind of thinking our Our need for salvation, our desperate longing for Jesus, is going to be far away from our lives. We're going to think maybe other people need that. But I'll be all right. It's interesting to me, even Christians who sometimes quote Psalm 14, verse 1, or Psalm 53, verse 1, a very, very famous opening line, the fool says in his heart, There is no God. If you've seen that Maybe these days you've seen it on social media on April 1st. Right? Happy National Atheist Day, Psalm 14. 1 or Psalm 53. One. Because the fool says in his heart, April Fool's Day, the fool says in his heart, there is no God. And certainly we have seen a rise in our country of militant atheism within this past generation. Millions of people have walked away from professing any faith in Christianity or going to church and have identified as being non-religious and who you know self-identify as being atheists. The arguments of the anti-religious new atheists are mostly an angry reaction against what they see as being a sort of morally oppressive and intolerant Christianity. Often they're also bitter about the evil they see in the world, and they can't believe that such a world can be ruled by an all-powerful and all-good God. And so some people have said that the creed of the new atheists is There is no God, and I hate him. Because that's what it is, this anger over that's intolerant, that's unloving. That's narrow-minded. And what about all this evil in the world? Why do people think this way? Well, they think this way because they want to live their lives the way they want to. They want to selfishly pursue their own desires. They they want to be left alone. They don't want to be told that they're going to be held accountable to God at the end of their lives and they're going to have to give an answer to their Creator for what they did with the life that He gave them. But they also want to live in a world where everybody is nice to each other and nothing bad ever happens. And this is inherently incoherently contradictory, you understand. Because a world where everyone is free to do whatever they want and live for themselves is not a world in which everyone will be nice to each other. People will basically grasp for what they want and be selfish and amoral. But also, it's also incoherently contradictory because Reason would tell us that a world of life, beauty, goodness, and joy without a wise, powerful, and good creator is an impossibility. Random chance and chaos does not produce order and beauty and light and goodness and truth. It produces a mess My kids have built Legos for almost all of their lives, and they still build Legos. Never once have I seen one of my kids get a Lego set in the mail, open all the bags, throw all the pieces up against the wall. For a billion years, throwing Lego pieces up against the wall randomly, it would never just assemble itself into a set. And so this atheistic perspective really is illogical, it really is unreasonable, and it really is selfish, but it really is not what Psalm 14 is about. Psalm 14 is not calling out a small group of philosophical atheists and identifying them as fools. And I think sometimes we get confused because of translation. Translators who move the Bible from Hebrew into English or any language, sometimes they have to supply words to help it make sense in English. English for it to flow. And so the words that they've supplied here, and it's in pretty much every English translation, are the words there is. Because that makes it a sentence, right? It makes what the fool says in their heart a sentence, not just two words. But in Hebrew, it really is just the fool says in his heart, no God. Not only that, but it's clear that this is a universal condition, this foolishness, this corruption. Because verse 1 gives us David's perspective, and David looks around himself and he says, There is none who does good. And if you know anything about David's life, David will be honest enough to include himself in the nun. Because he was selfish and impulsive and temperamental and Lustful and irresponsible when left to his own devices. But not only does verse 1 give us David's perspective on what he sees around him. and universally says there's none who does good. But verses two and three give us God's perspective, lest we think David's just having a bad day. Right? Ever had a bad day, you're like, man, there's nothing but Idiots, liars, cheats, thieves, all around me. Who are these people? Where do they get off? You know, it's not just David having a bad day. The Lord Himself looks down from heaven on all of The children of man, that's all of humanity, and he looks to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. And he says, only about 10% of the population Nope. This is no one. They've all turned aside. Together they've become corrupt. There is none who does good unless we forget. And not catch it, not even one. That would be like the refrain if I were to set this to music. Not even one. Not even one. Because that's that's the point here. This isn't about philosophical atheism, there is no God. It's about the foolishness of all of our hearts. When we want to do what we want to do, what do we say in our hearts? No God. This doesn't have anything to do with you. Just don't talk to me about God. I don't want to hear about it. I'm going to do what I'm going to do. Leave me alone. Right? We all act this way, even those of us who know the Lord. If we're in a place in our lives where we're being stubborn and foolish and rebellious, we don't want to come to church. We don't want to be reminded. We don't want, you know, if if you're going to do something that you know is wrong, you probably don't want someone quoting a Bible verse to you about why it is that what you're about to do is wrong. Because in your heart you're being foolish and you're saying, no, God, either this doesn't have anything to do with you, or I don't want to do what you say. This is a universal human condition. And if we don't see it, we won't appreciate and receive the grace of God in Christ. Well God is clearly evident in the things that He's made. The Bible tells us two things that we have to you gotta have these down. That's the foundation of the way you look at the world and the way you understand reality. Two things God tells us. One, God is clearly evident, obviously evident in the works of creation. Psalm 19, verse 1 says, The heavens are telling the glory of God, and the skies are showing forth his handiwork. You cannot look up at the sky. And really deny God's existence. Every sunset, every sunrise, every starry night, every full moon, every Sky that you look at is telling you there is a God who is masterful, who is artistic, who is powerful, who is in control of it all. Romans 1 tells us that there's so much evidence of God's nature, of his eternal power, and of his divine nature that people are without excuse. So that's the first thing is God is not hiding. Bertrand Russell was a very famous atheistic philosopher of the middle part of the 20th century, and when he was confronted in an interview And someone asked him, uh, Dr. Russell, what will you say if you die and you find out that you're wrong and you get face to face with God and he says, Why did you deny me? And Bertram Russell in that interview with that interviewer said I would tell him you didn't give me enough evidence. Bertrand Russell has since met God, and I don't think he said that. Because the evidence is overwhelming. But the second truth that the scripture gives us that we need to have form the framework is that people intentionally and willfully suppress the truth in unrighteousness. We don't want there to be a God. In fact, the Bible is so clear about the fact that we don't want there to be a God that People hate God. People, if they could, people would lay hold of God and overthrow him from his throne of the universe or kill him outright. And if you think that's extreme, no, people aren't that bad. What happened when God stepped into the world? The more evidence that he gave that he was God in the flesh, the more clear it became that he was undeniably the sovereign Lord, the more they said, we've got to get rid of this guy. And they nailed them to a Roman cross. And it was religious leaders and political leaders of all parties who conspired together, people who were naturally enemies, Sadducees, Pharisees, Herodians. Who they said, you know what, we don't agree on anything. Some of us love the Romans, some of us hate the Romans. Some of us think this way, some of us think that way. But the one thing we all agree on, this Jesus guy has got to go Because that is what is in the heart of humanity by nature. The only hope for us is the intervening, life-giving grace of God to save us from ourselves. Now, God has saved a people for himself. We'll talk a little bit later about exactly how he's done that. But God has saved a people for himself. God has redeemed a people that he calls my people, a people that he identifies as the generation of the righteous And these people, because like Jesus, they are evidencing God in the world. They are hated by the world. Look at verses four and five. Have they no knowledge? All the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon the Lord. There they are in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous. If you're actively suppressing the knowledge of God that's being continually revealed to you by creation, you come to deeply resent anyone who reminds you of God. And so if God is with the generation of the righteous, then the ungodly are going to be frustrated with the generation of the righteous. Jesus warned us of this reality in John 15, 18 when he said, If the world hates you, know that it hated me before it hated you. Belonging to Jesus, representing Jesus, being an ambassador for Christ, does not mean that we get the welcome that Jesus deserves. It means that we get the welcome that Jesus got. And there's a world of difference between those two things. So in this world with these hearts, where do we go for refuge? We need to go to the Lord. God is with the generation of the righteous. You would shame the plans of the poor, but the Lord is his refuge. Verse 6:7. So, two key lines here. God is with the generation of the righteous, and the Lord is his refuge. That's where we go to find refuge. Later today, we'll be driving south for a while and arriving at our earthly place of refuge. on the shores of Lake Blue Ridge in North Georgia. It's a wonderful place to get away. We're going to be gone for the week. I'll be back for next Sunday. But um just looking forward to going and getting away. When I think of refuge, I think a place where I don't have to worry about things, I can relax, the water, you know The the breeze through the trees, good coffee, good company, good food, just you know It's going to be great. It's a refuge. But also refuge is a place of safety, a place where you hide yourself from danger We have that with God if. And here's the key. We have that with God if The most powerful single word in the English language possibly is one of the shortest, two little letters, if. God is your refuge. God is with you. God will keep you. God will not fail to uphold you if You are among the righteous. Because God is with the generation of the righteous. If you are the poor In spirit, the poor in heart who have turned to the Lord, then the Lord is your refuge. So then the question is: how can a person With a deceitful heart and a corrupt nature, living in a rebellious world and prone to rebellion himself, ever be counted as righteous before the Lord? This is in fact the most important question you could ever ask. Most important question is not who's going to win the election in November or what's going to happen to the stock market. Most important question is not what major should I choose in college or how do I get a promotion at work or do I have enough money saved for retirement or any of the other hundred questions that crowd in on us every day. The most important question is this How can a sinful man be righteous before a holy God? How can a sinful woman, a sinful boy, a sinful girl, with a heart that's corrupt, with a heart that says, no God, because we're foolish, how can we be righteous before God? So that He can be our refuge, so that He can be with us, so that we can hide ourselves in Him, so that we can rejoice in Him, so that when salvation comes from Him, we can rejoice and we can be glad. How? Short, straightforward answer, 2 Corinthians 5. 21. God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. so that through him we might become the righteousness of God. God made him, Jesus, who knew no sin, to be sin for us, so that through him we might become the righteousness of God. The longer answer, I invite you to turn with me to Romans 3. Because this is where Psalm 14 is quoted. And this is where we're given the full the fuller explanation of how this is possible, of how this happens. Romans chapter three, starting in verse nine What then? Are we Jews any better off? No, not at all. For we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin, as it is written. None is righteous, no not one, no one understands, no one seeks for God, all have turned aside, together they have become worthless, no one does good, not evil. Does that sound familiar yet? That's right straight from Psalm 14. And then it goes on. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of ass is under their lips, their mouth is full of curses and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, and their paths are ruin and misery. The way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. This is drawing on other Old Testament text to bring together the more complete picture of what that means. Our speech, our conduct. Our vision of life, corrupt. Verse 19 Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped and the whole world be held accountable to God. For by works of the law, no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. So one way we might say, yes, we're all sinners, everybody's sinful, we don't fear God, we speak terrible lies, we seek our own ways, how can we be right before God? And you might say, we need the Ten Commandments, and we do. We need the law of God. That's what we need. That'll make us righteous. And the Bible says as clearly as can be, no, it won't. Here's what the Ten Commandments are. Here's what the law of God is. It's the diagnosis of your problem. It's that which exposes what is true about you. Several people in this church have dealt with or are dealing with cancer. And when you get a cancer diagnosis, it's good. It's better to have the cancer diagnosis than not have the cancer diagnosis because without it you're like something is wrong with me and I don't know what. I'm having these weird symptoms I don't get it. And then they do the scans, they do the testing, they come back and they say, this is what you have and this is what it's like and this is what it's doing. That's Good information to have. It's a great place to start. That's what the law does But you would not walk home from the doctor with a cancer diagnosis and say, I've got the answer. Everything's going to be okay. No. The diagnosis should drive you to the cure. And so the next two words we have are this glorious hinge, like we looked at last week. But now. So, no human being is justified in the sight of God by works of the law, but now The righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood. to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show His righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith. In Jesus. But now the righteousness of God has been revealed. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. How is it possible? It is possible because God put forward Jesus as a propitiation by his blood. That's a big word. You only hear it in church. You're not going to hear that on CNN or Fox News or MSNBC. Propitiation. It means the sacrifice that satisfies divine justice and appeal The wrath of God. Because Jesus did that. We get to have his righteousness. There is the great exchange that takes place at the cross. Jesus says, I will be cursed that they might be blessed. I will be condemned that they might be justified. I will be cut off that they may be drawn near. I will be made a curse. that they may be made the blessed children of God. I will be sin, that they might be righteousness. And the only way to receive this is by faith, by trusting, by receiving and resting on Jesus alone for salvation. That's it. You have to come to Him. You have to come to Him. Poor people, Jesus said, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And when he said that, the word for poor he used is a beggar. Blessed are the beggars in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Why? Because you know you have no righteousness of your own. It is not. Please hear this because some people spend years and years and years in church and still don't get this. It is not a matter of Jesus makes it possible for you To work really hard and earn your salvation. No. It's not. You only score about 68% on the test. And you've got to have 100 to get in. So Jesus fills in the missing 32%. In other words, you're a decent person, but you're not perfect. Nobody's perfect. And so Jesus fills in the gap. No. Jesus is our righteousness. Jesus is our peace. Jesus is the forgiveness of all of our sin. We bring nothing to God but our need. He gives us everything in Christ. The longing in the closing verse of Psalm 14 is for salvation to come is for salvation to come. And Jesus was given the name of salvation by God. When he came. When he came, he came to be the salvation that nothing else could ever bring. And now that he has come, we look with faith, with eager longing, with the same yearning. for his coming again, for his revealing from heaven. Because Jesus came the first time to secure righteousness and forgiveness and peace for us. And And He's going to come again to make a final end of all evil, to purify His creation, and to bring us into the new creation forever. Salvation. Has come, is coming, and will come. Jesus has come and finished the work of redemption on the cross. He is at work now, even right now, calling you to faith in himself through his Holy Spirit and he will come again and make everything right at the end of all things. He will come. And you can be certain you can have that hope, you can have that refuge now, and that perfection of joy later. One way and one way only, and that is to hide yourself in Jesus. Find in Him the forgiveness you need, find in Him the peace That you need, find in him the refuge that you need from the world's attacks, and wait upon him in faith for the full restoration he will bring when he comes again. There is no goodness in us. There is nothing we can present to God to plead our case and get him to treat us different from anybody else in the world because we're not different from anybody else in the world. World. But there is a Savior who never fails. There is a righteousness that is complete and is a gift of God. There is eternal life And the only place it's found is in Jesus. Run to him, hide yourself in him, and wait upon him. Let's pray. Father, you've given us everything in your Son Jesus. There's nothing more we need, there's nothing we could add. We can only live because Jesus has made us alive. We can only walk because Jesus has healed us. We can only love because Jesus has given us new hearts. We can only trust because your Spirit has given us faith. We can only hope because you've given us unfailing promises. So let us live and love and walk and trust and hope in Jesus our Savior. It's in His name we pray. Amen.