Alright, Isaiah 58 is where we are today. A little introduction to the passage and where we are in the flow of Isaiah. 53, of course, was setting up for us and describing to us the redemption accomplished by Christ. And since 53, we've been looking at the benefits and the blessings that flow from the redemption in Christ that was 54. the call of God to come and to worship and to receive, to drink from the waters of life and to receive these benefits and blessings, that was 55. And then 56, 7, and 8 is, what does this look like? How are our lives changed? And 56 we saw there was an emphasis on the fact that God's people are now to be including the foreigners and including those who are would be outside naturally but are now brought near, and that we need to beware of irresponsible leaders, uh corrupt leaders. Last week we were in 57, which addressed the idea, the issue of idolatry. And today in 58 On the surface of it, it's talking in the beginning about fasting and at the end about Sabbath-keeping. But really the deeper issue that you'll see very clearly throughout is the issue of injustice. And there are two problems with even religious people, very religious people And that is, it's easy to fall into idolatry, and it's also easy to fall into injustice. And the underlying cause is really the same, and that is selfishness. Last week we saw we fall into idolatry because God's not giving us what we think we need or what we want in a timely manner, and so we go chasing after idols to get from the idols the things And today we'll see that even deeply religious people who fast and who keep the Sabbath can be uh capable of gross injustice because they're being selfish. They're doing their own pleasure rather than delighting in the Lord. So what we really have is a picture of the difference between a dead religion That is man-centered, self-centered, and doing our own pleasure, and delighting in the Lord. So with that introduction, let's turn our attention to Isaiah 58. This is the Word of God. Cry aloud. Do not hold back. Lift up your voice like a trumpet. Declare to my people their transgression, to the house of Jacob their sins. Yet they seek me daily, and delight to know my ways as if they were a nation that did righteousness and did not forsake the judgment of their God. They ask of me righteous judgments. They delight to draw near to God. Why have we fasted and you see it not? Why have we humbled ourselves and you take no knowledge of it? Behold, in the day of your fast, you seek your own pleasure and oppress all your workers Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice to be heard on high, is such The fast that I choose, a day for a person to humble himself? Is it to bow down his head like a reed and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast and a day acceptable to the Lord? Is not this the fast that I choose to loose the bonds of wickedness and to undo the straps of the yoke? To let the oppressed go free and to break every yoke? Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house? When you see the naked to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh, then shall your light break forth like the dawn and your healing shall spring up speedily. Your righteousness shall go before you. The glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard. Then you shall call and the Lord will answer. You shall cry and he will say, Here I am. If you take away the yoke from your midst, the pointing of the finger and speaking wickedness If you pour yourself out for the hungry and satisfy the desire of the afflicted, then shall your light rise in the darkness. and your gloom be as the noonday. And the Lord will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scorched places and make your bones strong, and you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water whose waters do not fail. And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt. And you shall raise up the foundations of many generations, you shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of streets to dwell in. If You turn back your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight. And the holy day of the Lord honorable. If you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly, then you shall delight in the Lord. And I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Pray. Heavenly Father, you have a word appointed for us today that we need to hear. We have gathered here not to hear the words of a man, but to hear the word The Word of God, we all need to hear you speak your word to our hearts, to our souls, to our lives. Us that you would cause our hearts to love you, to love our neighbors, to delight in you. Do this work in us to make us more like Jesus, our Savior. In His name we pray. Amen. Amen You know, sometimes religious people can be just the worst, can't they? Might be surprised to hear a pastor say that. But if you've read the Gospels, you'll know that it was the most religious people who gave Jesus the hardest time. Once again, Sunday school this morning was like a perfect setup for today's sermon. If you're missing Sunday school, you're missing half of what God is doing here on Sunday mornings because It's like putting the ball on the T for Isaiah 58. This morning in Sunday school, and for those of you who weren't there, and for those of you who work at a little recap, this isn't in my notes, obviously. Um John 9, the healing of the blind man, healing of a man born blind. And what you see is that the most religious people, the Pharisees, the most devout, the most scrupulous Are the people who are challenging Jesus and making assumptions, judgmental assumptions about this man. So they say to the man, you were born in sin, and you're trying to correct us and teach us? Which is actually the same assumption that the disciples had at the beginning of the passage. Who sinned, Lord? This man or his parents, that he was born blind? Religious people, in their self-righteousness and in their twisted theology, will often make assumptions about other people based upon their circumstances. And then they wanted to condemn Jesus because he broke the Sabbath by making mud. and spreading it on the man's eyes. And Tim did a good job of bringing out like this is very different from other miracles. Jesus did some work He made mud and he spread on the man's eyes. He did that so that the Pharisees, in their legalistic self-righteousness, would be able to accuse him of doing work on the Sabbath, completely ignoring, and Lauren pointed out quite rightly Nobody in the whole story is saying, wow, this man who was born blind can see. Praise God. They're all saying Well, why you were born in sin, and how could you do that? And we don't they're all just nitpicky, legalistic, self-righteous, religious And that's what religious people can be. When religion is all about how good a job I'm doing of keeping the rules Unlike those people over there who don't keep the rules very well. You know, on the surface we have a picture of religious people here in Isaiah 58 that's pretty impressive. Think about what God says about these people at the beginning of this passage. These are people who fast regularly. And at least outwardly keep the Sabbath every week. That's better than most Christians in America today. We don't do fasting much. And Sabbath, really, in our 24-7-365 world, it's like just another day to stay overly busy. These are people who delight to know God's ways and delight to draw near to Him. And yet God calls Isaiah to cry aloud and lift up his voice like a trumpet to blast powerfully against the horrific sins of these people. Most pastors, if you told them, would you like to pastor a church full of people who pray to the Lord daily? who delight to know theology and God's precepts and who fast regularly and who are in church every Sunday. Most pastors would say, yeah, give me that congregation. That would be awesome. But these people they leave church and go beat their workers. They see hungry people and they say, Pfft, should have obeyed God like I do. And the thing about human nature is it doesn't change over time. People are still people. And so the the tendencies of certain religious people to be hard-hearted and self-righteous And callous toward others is a a perennial problem. It's in every culture, it's in every generation. I'll give you an example from American history from the 1840s and 50s by contrasting two different books that I love that were written at this time. One is one of my all-time favorite novels, Uncle Tom's Cabin, written in 1851, published in 1852 by Harry Beecher Stowe. Wonderful book, highly recommend it. At the same time, an autobiography came out in the 1840s from Frederick Douglass. And I want to read to you part of what Frederick Douglass put in the appendix of his autobiography and then talk a little bit about Uncle Tom's Cabin as a contrast to it. It. So Frederick Douglass was born and raised a slave in Maryland. He was born on a plantation in southern Maryland, and then he spent many of his childhood years in Baltimore He escaped slavery, and later he wrote a narrative of the life of a slave. And at the appendix, he wrote this. I find since reading over the foregoing narrative that I have in several instances spoken in such a tone and manner respecting religion. as may possibly lead those unacquainted with my religious views to suppose me an opponent of all religion. To remove the liability of such a misapprehension, I deem it proper to append the following brief explanation. What I have said, respecting and against religion, I mean strictly to apply to the slave-holding religion of this land, and with no possible reference to Christianity. Christianity proper. For between the Christianity of this land and the Christianity of Christ, I recognize the widest possible difference. So wide that to receive the one as good, pure, and holy is of necessity to reject the other as bad, corrupt, and wicked. To be the friend of one is of necessity to be the enemy of the other. I love the pure, peaceable, and impartial Christianity of Christ. I therefore hate the corrupt, slaveholding, women whipping, cradle plundering, partial and hypocritical Christianity of this land. Indeed, I can see no reason, but the most deceitful one for calling the religion of this land Christianity. I look upon it as the climax of all misnomers The boldest of all frauds, the grossest of all libels. Never was there a clearer case of stealing the livery of the court of heaven to serve the devil in. I am filled with unutterable loathing when I contemplate the religious pomp and show, together with the horrible inconsistencies which everywhere surround me. We have men stealers for ministers, women whippers for missionaries, and cradle plunderers for church members. The man who wields the blood-clotted cowskin during the week, fills the pulpit on Sunday, and claims to be a minister of the meek and lowly Jesus. The man who robs me of my earnings at the end of each week meets me as a class leader on Sunday morning to show me the way of life and the path of salvation. He who sells my sister for purposes of prostitution stands forth as the pious advocate of purity. He who proclaims it a religious duty to read the Bible denies me the right of learning to read in the name of the God who made me. He who is the religious advocate of marriage robs whole millions of its sacred influence and leaves them to the ravages of wholesale pollution. The warm defender of the sacredness of the family relation is the same that scatters whole families, sundering husbands and wives, parents and children, sisters and brothers, leaving the hut vacant and the hearth desolate We see the thief preaching against theft, the adulterer against adultery. We have men sold to build churches, women sold to support the gospel, and babes sold to purchase Bibles for the poor heathen. all for the glory of God and for the good of souls. Now that may be hard to hear, but it's historically accurate. This was widespread. Jesus would have said of these people that they were straining at gnats and swallowing camels. They tithe their mint and their cumin. but they leave the weightier matters of the law undone. The contrast can be seen in the heart of Harry Beecher Stowe Pastor's wife, who participated in the Underground Railroad and wrote beautifully of the lives of enslaved people in Uncle Tom's Cabin The remarkable thing, if you've never read Uncle Tom's Cabin, if you go into it just knowing it's an anti-slavery book, you'll be struck at how warmly Christian it is and how desirous Harry Beecher Stowe is of her reader to come to know. Know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. It's an openly evangelistic and powerfully Christ-centered novel, as it also shows the lives of slaves. Because Harry Peter Stowe believed that if people came to a true and living faith in Jesus, to a life-changing salvation in him, it would so transform their lives that they would be obvious to them, the ugly horrors of slavery. And they would join the fight against it. And it was effective. Abraham Lincoln met her in 1863 and said, So you're the little lady who wrote the book that started this great big war. So the key to the difference. What's the difference between the Pharisees, the slaveholders? And we see people today, the self-righteous, hypocritical, quick to judge. Quick to serve themselves and promote themselves, and a living, warm, life-changing, compassion-producing faith. in Jesus Christ. What's the difference? Well, if we're honest, we can often see the difference in our own lives. In our own hearts. But in the text, we see this in the difference between two phrases. The phrase that's repeated that I told you at the beginning. Of you seek your own pleasure. Verse 3. Behold, in the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure and oppress all your workers. Verse 13, if you turn your foot back from the Sabbath from doing your pleasure on my holy day and call the Sabbath a delight, And the holy day of the Lord honorable, if you honor it, not going your own ways or seeking your own pleasure or talking idly. Then, verse fourteen, you shall take delight in the Lord. See the beginning of the passage God tells them, you do delight in seeking me daily, and you do delight in hearing of my ways. But at the end he tells them what they need is to delight in the Lord. Let me ask you a question. Do you know that you can love right theology and not love the God of that theology? Do you know you can love the Bible and love the teachings of the Bible and not really love the God of the Bible You can have a construct that says, I know my theology, I have the right answers, I know the rules, I know the expectations, and I'm doing all those right things. And that makes me feel really good about myself. And you're 180 degrees off from actually delighting in the Lord. You've used religion to keep God at arm's length from messing too much In the desires of your heart. If I can define him, if I can describe him, if I can make a list of his expectations, I can be outwardly compliant, and I can do what I want to do. And there's a lot of people who are good at this. And this is where sometimes we see pastors blow up publicly. We've seen it. They were preaching the word. They were teaching sound theology. And sometimes we think, well, what was wrong with their theology? What was wrong with their maybe nothing But it was all up here, was all out here, and it wasn't changing what was in here. So man centered religion is Focused on duty, focused on outward things, but really wanting to either protect ourselves or guard ourselves. I'll give you some examples. Some of these should sound familiar because I think the line between these two, it runs through our hearts. If you walk away from this and say, oh yeah, those people over there, they're the self-righteous, hypocritical, man-centered religion people, I'm so glad that I'm in the tender-hearted love Jesus people group. Then you would have missed the point. This line runs right through each one of our hearts. So, the people who God is speaking out against powerfully here, what do they do? They don't treat their workers well. They don't give generously to the needs of their neighbors. They don't have compassion or a right sense of justice. Instead, they beat and oppress those who are under their care, and they spread gossip and judgmental slander. That's this idea of shaking the finger and speaking wickedness. I think of those people in John 9 of like You were born in sin. You know, they're shaking their finger at the blind man, now healed, and they're speaking wickedness about him, presumption. So, if we if we are quick to justify ourselves or congratulate ourselves for our righteousness and our devotion to God, while we are also quick to judge and condemn others, And we don't really care or do anything to help those who are in need within our communities, then Isaiah 58 is speaking to us. If we're tempted to think and to say that we and people like us are the good guys who are doing right in society and that those people over there are the real problem, then Isaiah 58 is speaking to us. If we only care about what's happening to us and to our priorities and our pleasures and our conveniences And we are very hard-hearted toward the sufferings and injustices inflicted on others, then Isaiah 58 is a mirror that we need to hold up for some painful self-examination. It's human nature. How many of you who are parents ever heard your kids say That's not fair. How many of you have ever heard? Ever heard your kids say that's not fair? Okay How many times, what percentage of the times, did your kids say that's not fair because they felt like they were being shortchanged? Was it a hundred percent of the time? Because it was a hundred percent of the time. That's human nature. We only care about justice and injustice when it's us. Who are being short-chained. It's not like, oh mom, you gave my brother a smaller piece of cake than me. That's not fair. Let me give him the bigger piece of cake. Lord, oh, you gave me this for my birthday, but my sister didn't get nearly as much for her birthday. I'm going to give her some of this because that wouldn't be fair God has to do that work. One is natural and the other is supernatural. One of the things I think we should see from Isaiah 57 and 58 is that idolatry and injustice of this type are just very natural. And if we ever excuse ourselves, if we ever, if we ever catch ourselves excusing ourselves by saying, well, it's only natural that I would feel that way. Then you need to stop and say, yeah, that's right. It is only natural. And that means I better repent. Because I'm being only natural. I'm not being spirit controlled. I'm not being supernatural. And of course our model for that is Jesus. Jesus, when he saw crowds of people. Sick, suffering. The Gospels tell us again and again he was moved with compassion. He was moved with compassion, and so he taught them the truth because they were ignorant, like sheep without He was moved with compassion and so he fed them. He was moved with compassion and so he healed them. That is a movement that in our hearts is the movement of the Holy Spirit, and it is a movement that is Christ-like. And so when we see the Holy Spirit moving us to do what is not natural to us, but what is Christ-like, that's when we know that we are experiencing the heart-changing power of the gospel. And that's when we need to thank God. That His grace is at work in us. The good news of the gospel is that the God who knows our hearts better than we do also changes our hearts through the gospel. Jesus, the righteous one, who lived a perfect life of love and obedience, loving God and loving his neighbor, he cleanses us from all sin. He gives us his righteousness and his Holy Spirit transforms us from the inside out by convicting us and changing us. changing us in the day-to-day. Do we ever reach perfection in this life? We confessed it together. No, we don't. But by God's grace, we are enabled by the Holy Spirit to make a beginning in obedience in every area of life. It's God's work, it's not ours. Now the key is not That we work harder or we're stricter with our rule keeping. We can't discipline ourselves into a submission by our own efforts or our own power. But God can and He will change our hearts when we hear His Word and we humbly respond with repentance and faith. We do need to respond. The man who was healed. Of being born blind. Those of you in Sunday school, you'll just have heard this, but if you weren't there, remember Jesus, this is John 9, Jesus rubs the mud on his eyes. And then he says, go wash in the pool of Siloam. So he had to get up and he had to go and wash in the pool of Siloam, and then he came back seeing. Now who did the work of opening his eyes so he could see or creating functioning eyes so that he could see? Who did the work? Jesus. But does that mean there was nothing for the man to do? No. He had to do something. But was washing in the pool of Siloam the thing that made him see? No. So it is with us. As God changes our hearts, things like I want to spend time in the Word with God every day. I want to pray. I want to worship God. I want to lead my family in family devotions. I want to be in church on Sunday, these become not like if I keep these rules, I will become a better person, but rather because of what God has done in me, because Because of who Jesus is to me, I want to do these things, and through them, God will grow me and God will change me. Jesus came to redeem us from sin and death, including the sin of religious hypocrisy and the death of living by a self-righteous, dead religiosity. When we turn to him, confessing our sins, crying out to him for transformation, he hears us and he answers us. We have a good example of this in Many people throughout Scripture. The Apostle Paul was once the very embodiment of dead religion. He was a Pharisee of the Pharisees. Years later he could write in Philippians that in regards to keeping the law, he was blameless. There wasn't a thing that he did in his life that anybody could actually blame him for Now later in Romans 7, he writes about the one commandment that nobody can escape conviction of. I think it's the reason why God put it at the very end. I remember myself, I've I've told of myself before in this, but I remember myself when I was in a very sort of self righteous religious phase, which still comes and goes at times. But I was in high school and we were studying the Ten Commandments, and I've told this before, but my pastor said I thought he was crazy. When he said that, I was like, what are you talking about? I don't break the Ten Commandments. Amandments. I mean, yeah, one and a half. So but on the other eight and a half, I'm doing all right. I got like an eighty-five percent. I haven't murdered anybody. I haven't committed adultery. I'm not even married. Like, I don't steal. I don't take God's name in vain. I'm here in church every Sunday. I I don't worship other gods. I don't have idols in my closet that I bow to. I was thinking in this external, uh this kind of man-made religion always thinks in terms of external That's why the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus goes to the heart, because he wants to expose the truth of it. And I didn't get that. But you know what the one was that I couldn't escape, even when I was in my, you know 17 year old, self-righteous, state. You know what the one was that I couldn't escape? You shall not covet. That was the one I knew. I was like, yeah, I kind of do covet. A lot. Well that's the if you read Romans seven, that's the same one that tripped up Paul when he was the Pharisee and still got him like when God said don't covet, like I didn't even coveting was a sin, but now that I'm aware of it, I realize I do it all the time. And it actually exposes that you're guilty of all of them Um but Paul said in keeping the law I was blameless. But what kind of person did this Scrupulous. I mean, if you guys knew the life of Saul the Pharisee, you want to talk about rule keeping and scrupulous and strict and disciplined. None of us could measure up to it. He likely had the entirety of the Old Testament memorized. Memorized. And he would fast twice a week, two days, every week, no food. Okay? He scrupulously tithed everything he had. If anything came into his possession, immediately 10% of it went to God. None of us could measure up to that. And yet, what kind of a person did that make Paul? Saul of Tarsus, the Pharisee. Was he a nice guy? Was he a humble guy? Was he a gracious and compassionate guy? He's the guy who held the coats of the Sanhedrin while they stoned Stephen to death and then said, hey guys, give me orders. I'll go out and I'll arrest more Christians and make sure they're put in prison and we'll force them to deny this Jesus character. He was one of the Pharisees from our John 9 story. And yet when Jesus got a hold of him, and Jesus confronted him and changed him, He became the most effective missionary church planter in the history of the church. But also, we read in Galatians when he met with Peter and the apostles in Jerusalem. They said, he said, they only charge me to remember the poor the very thing that I was eager to do. We forget that sometimes. He got the gospel right, but also he had the heart to say, yes, as I go out planting churches, I'm going to remember the poor. I'm eager to do that because that's what Lord did. Centuries later, after Paul, Martin Luther was a Roman Catholic monk who later said of himself, if ever a monk could be saved by monkery, I was that monk. I mean he was serious. The guy went to confession so often that his confessor, the guy who heard his confession is like, would you please stop? Come back when you've done something serious. He had such a conscience and such scrupulousness. But he knew he couldn't save himself. It was only when he was in the book of Romans, in chapter 1, when he He read, for I am ashamed for I am not ashamed, I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. for in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. It's Romans 1, 16 and 17. Luther then realized in that moment when he read it. That the righteousness of God revealed in the gospel is not the justice of God by which he judges us, but rather the gift of his own righteousness by which he makes us righteous. Luther thought all along, oh, the righteousness of God's reveal, that's the justice of God, that's the standard, and I'm I fall short of that standard, but no, it's the righteousness of God that He gives to us. From faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. That changed everything for Luther His world was turned upside down. And later, in 1518, he was in Heidelberg for a debate that's known as the Heidelberg Disputation. And this is what he writes. Listen to these statements. The law of God, the most salutary doctrine of life, cannot advance man on his way to righteousness, but rather hinders him. Much less can human works, which are done over and over again with the aid of natural precepts, so to speak, lead to that end. And third, although the works of man may appear attractive and good, they are nevertheless likely to be mortal sins. That's the opening. And then later in the conclusion, he says this, 26. The law says do this, and it is never done. Grace says, believe in this, and everything is already done. And then the love of God does not find But creates that which is pleasing to it. Think about that. The love of God does not find God never looked at a sinful human being and said, I like what I see, but rather he gives us the righteousness of Christ so that we will become what we need. to be to be beautiful in his sight. He creates the beauty by his love. That's gospel transformation. And that brings forth a fruit of a change. One that's changed from the inside out, one that's grounded in grace, one that's resting in the finished work of Christ, one that is growing by grace day by day. And what does that look like? It still does involve fasting and Sabbath keeping. I think those are good things as God gives them, but not in a legalistic, self-righteous way. It is in a way that is tender-hearted, compassionate, loving God, and loving others. Jesus told us, what are the two great commandments? What's the greatest commandment? What's the greatest commandment according to Jesus? Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. Religion will tell you one day a week and ten percent of your income is good enough. God says, I want all of you. Because I love you and I want you to love me. And the second, Jesus said, is like it. Love your neighbor as much as you love yourself. John writes about this in 1 John. 1 John 3. By this we know love that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. But if any one has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? Little children, let us not love in word or talk, but indeed and in truth. That's 1 John 3, 16 to 18. And then the next chapter, 1 John 4. We love because he first loved us. If anyone says I love God and hates his brother, he's a liar. For he who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother. Do you see that? It always begins with God's love for us. This is how we know what love is. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. We love because he first loved us. It always begins with God's love for us. But then the sign that we've been changed by that love is that that love flows out through us to others. in generosity and in love for one another. That type of life Brings precious promises. The hinge of chapter 58, right between verses 7 and 8. Hopefully I've uh. Taught you by now to look to the middle of a Hebrew text. And you'll find it's just 14 verses, so it's it's it's in the hinge that takes place between seven and eight. So seven is telling us what God wants from us. Share your bread with the hungry. Bring the homeless poor into your house. When you see the naked to cover him, not to hide yourself from your own flesh, then shall your light break forth like the dawn And your healing shall spring up speedily. Your righteousness shall go before you. The glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard. And then from eight on, we're given the blessings. the benefits that flow from this kind of transformed life, gospel transformed life. Just look at verses eight to the end. Your light breaks forth like the dawn. That is, truth, righteousness, and goodness from God break forth like the dawn to lead us. To show us how we should be living. Speedy healing. Not a healing necessarily from every physical disease in this life, but a better, deeper, and eternal healing. First of our souls and then of our bodies forever in the resurrection of Christ. The third one, the righteousness of Christ goes before us. And then the fourth one, the glory of God is our rear guard. So, how do we know which way we should go? The righteousness of Christ goes before us. What does Jesus call us to do? Follow me. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. We follow the righteousness of Christ goes before us and the glory of God is our rear God. We are protected. We are led and we are protected. by God. Fifth, we get real and vital answers from God to our prayers. Sixth, light and joy lift the gloom of darkness. Are we ever in darkness if we're following Jesus? Yes, we are in darkness. We suffer, we hurt, we grieve, we still live in a fallen world, we still have sinful hearts, but there's light and joy in the darkness that lift the gloom of that darkness. Seventh, there's strength and the refreshment when we are weak, dry, and weary. Eighth, there's a rebuilding of what was broken and lost by the fall and by generations of sin. Ninth, there is riding on the heights of the earth, and this is a triumphant joy. And finally, tenth, we're fed with the heritage of Jacob. That is, we're given deep satisfaction with that which truly satisfies our souls. I think that's Jesus himself, the heritage of Jacob. He he He satisfies us. He feeds us with himself. Through the Word and through the sacrament. He feeds us. So those are ten benefits that I see in blessings. Some of these we don't have we don't have any of them in their perfection. until we're in glory. But we get a foretaste of them here. And we, I think it's connected to the Sabbath here because we get a foretaste of them here, especially. I think as we set apart the Sabbath, the Lord's Day, and we say, this is a day when I'm going to delight in the Lord. I'm going to delight in the Lord. I'm going to say, I'm going to be in God's house. I'm going to worship with God's people. I'm going to be in God's word. I'm going to be meditating on the Lord again. Not as a religious duty to earn righteousness, but as a response to his love for me. As we live a life as transformed people, the Holy Spirit brings the first fruits of these promises in our lives Joy, peace, strength, refreshment, rebuilding, satisfaction And then by his grace, he brings us all the way home to glory, where we get the full, the fullness of them all. We make a beginning in this life, but we get the fullness of them all in the life to come. How many of you on Thanksgiving morning or Easter is coming up? When the turkey or the ham come fresh out of the oven and you smell it You go in and you you sample a little bit. Just just to make sure it's properly cooked. So, you know, you wouldn't want to serve improperly cooked food. So somebody has to sacrifice themselves themselves and get that first sample, right? And Beth is always a little annoyed when I do that, but it's just an important service I'm providing for the family, really. No, you get that first taste and it's good, right? But it does two things, right? It it pleases you. So you delight in it, but it also wets your appetite for the full course to come. That's what we get in this life. When God, the Holy Spirit, works in our lives and we are more and more like Jesus, we get to taste And see that the Lord is good. We get to delight ourselves in the Lord. We get to have that first fruit. And it satisfies us and gives us joy and it makes us hungry for the feed. So, as we've seen in this section of Isaiah, there's two ways we can go. We can go the natural way of going after the world and living for ourselves, or we can live out the redemption He's given to us. in Christ in the new and better way that's opened up for us in Jesus. Will we answer his call and will we follow him?