Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We come today to John chapter 12 Verses 1 through 11. And we're asking the question, how have you responded to the saving work of Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son to save us. Thank you for sending your Spirit to draw our hearts to Christ and bring that salvation home to us personally. Help us to see today how we can respond to your saving work in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. John 12, 1-11. Six days before Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead So they gave a dinner for him there. Mary served, sorry, Martha served, of course Martha serving, right? Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at table. Mary, therefore, took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, he who was about to betray him, said, Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred deneri and given to the poor? He said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and having charge of the money bag he used to help himself to what was put into it. Jesus said, Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me. When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came, not only on account of him, but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead, so the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well. because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus. And these plotting religious leaders just get more and more absurd. Not only do they want to kill the man who can raise the dead, but now they want to kill the man who was raised from the dead because he's such a powerful witness. against their evil. That's how they respond to the saving work of Jesus. Let's double down on our selfishness and our evil. We need a better example, don't we? We need role models of a better way to respond to when Jesus saves us, does wonderful things in our lives. And we have role models here in Mary and Martha. Mary is put forth as one of the most powerful examples. Her story is actually recorded in all the Gospels, but John's the only one who gives us the context for it and who specifically identifies exactly who this woman is. who breaks open this ali alabaster uh jar of ointment, of pure nard. It's worth about a year's wages, we know. So, why would she do it? Well, this is Mary, the sister of Lazarus, and she does this right after Lazarus is raised from the dead. This is Another reason to be thankful for the Gospel of John, filling in the gaps and giving us information that's missing from the other Gospels. This extravagant, expensive act. We've earlier in the Gospels seen Mary in Luke 10 sitting at Jesus' feet, learning from him, while her sister Martha was distracted. with busyness and preparing a meal. Here we see Mary at the feet of Jesus again, worshiping, not just learning and listening, but worshiping and worshiping extravagantly. But Martha here is serving. She's serving the table. And I don't want us to miss Martha. We can sometimes just always have the image of Martha from Luke 10 in our head. And earlier this week we saw the Martha at the grave of Lazarus, and she's the little more bold one, a little more theologically astute one, which is interesting. But here she's serving. She's hardworking. I think these are both good examples to us, Mary and Martha, here in John 12. Jesus does something wonderful in our lives. How do we respond? We serve, we worship. We worship, we serve. Seems very simple, doesn't it? But it's also just so appropriate And we don't hold back in doing so. We do so joyfully. We do so extravagantly. We do so worshipfully Whether we're serving at table or we're doing something more extraordinary like Mary's act of worship. Do you notice Judas Iscariot's response? Why was this ointment not sold for 300 denarii and given to the poor? This is a year's worth of wages in this jar. He wanted it for himself. So we see in there two good examples and two bad examples. Right here in John 12 in these 11 verses, two good examples. Martha serving, Mary worshiping. Extravagantly. Judas coveting. The religious leaders plotting. Christ Jesus has come into the world to bring salvation He poured out his life unto death. He rose again from the dead. He has brought salvation. He has brought immortality to light in his own eternal resurrection How have you responded? Are you worshiping? Are you serving? Are you following? Are you trusting? Or are you self-seeking and calculating What's in it for me? What can I get out of it? Or are you trying to get rid of Jesus? How do I get him out of my life? How do I avoid the dealing with this? Come to Jesus. Worship Him with gratitude for what he's done for you and serve him. Let's pray Father, thank you for sending your Son into the world to bring salvation, not just the resurrection of one man from the dead, but life to all who believe, eternal life to all who believe. May we respond to you by worshiping you and serving you from the heart, extravagantly, unreservedly, joyfully, for the rest of our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was a blessing to you as always, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.