Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus. In the Gospels, there's a helicopter outside that flying pretty low. All right, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I don't know what's going on with that helicopter out there, but we are here, and we are in Luke chapter 11, verses 11 Luke I can't even think straight. Luke 15. Verses 11 to 32. And here in Luke 15, 11 to 32, we've come to the famous parable of the prodigal son. We're going to be asking this question, how do you respond to the kindness of God? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for loving us with a love that is strong and faithful. Thank you for a Savior who is wonderful and powerful. And tender and kind. Lord God, would you please teach us and lead us by your grace to see our Savior more clearly and to trust you more deeply? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 15, 11 to 32. And he said, there was a man who had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me. And he divided his property between them Not many days later the younger son gathered all that he had and took a journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in reckless living. And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need. So He went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country who sent him into his fields to feed pigs. And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate. And no one gave him anything But when he came to himself, he said, How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread? But I perish here with hunger I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before you I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants. And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and ran and embraced him, and kissed him, and the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his servants, Bring quickly the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet, and bring the fattened calf, and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. And they began to celebrate. Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house he heard music and dancing, and he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant. And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he received him back safe and sound. But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him, but he answered his father, Look, These many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command, yet you never gave me a young goat that I might celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him. And he said to him, Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours. It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this your brother was dead and is alive. He was lost and is found. Most people religious or non-religious are very uncomfortable with how Jesus defines and describes the kindness of God. In this most famous story ever, Jesus told this story of the kindness of God. And it's on display in surprising ways from beginning to end. First of all, the Father, who represents God actually grants his youngest son's request to receive his inheritance ahead of time. The younger son is basically telling his dad that he wishes he was dead, and the dad gives him what he desires. The father watches for his son's return, which is how he sees him coming a long way off. The third thing is that the father runs to meet his son, instead of simply waiting on the front porch. Fourth, the father honors the younger son with warm affection, an embrace, and a kiss Fifth, the father honors the younger son with dignity and honor, the best robe and a ring on his hand. Sixth, the father honors the younger sin with son with generosity and celebration, killing the fattened calf and throwing a banquet. And seventh, the father sought out the angry older son when he refused to come into the banquet. Eighth, the father responded to the older son's anger and selfish complaining with kindness and reassurances of his love. And ninth, the father lovingly invites the older son to join in the celebration of his younger brother's return. Every step of the way. This radically strong kindness is offensive both to the religious and the non-religious. The religious who are represented by the older brother, are offended that God would be so recklessly kind and forgiving and accepting of immoral, rebellious, wasteful people. The non religious, represented by the younger son, are offended that Jesus thinks they need such kindness and forgiveness from God. They think they're just fine without such kindness. They resent being portrayed as so needy. But God's kindness remains rich and full for religious and non-religious people, whether we are offended by it or not. God is generous and often gives rebellious people what they ask for, being kind and generous even to the hardest of rebels. God is patient. And reassuring, even to self-righteous religious people who think they deserve better because they've been so good and so faithful in the gospel Through Jesus Christ, God does indeed receive and rejoice in the rebellious who return and repent and are redeemed. In the gospel, God also confronts the religious with their self-righteousness and calls them into the same banquet of grace The question for the religious and the rebellious alike is the same. Will we respond to the gracious invitation of the Father? Will we enter into the banquet prepared by Jesus for us. The kindness of God is offensive to both the religious and the non-religious because they think they don't need it. But if we will see our need, then we will no longer be offended, but thankful and welcomed and redeemed. Let's turn our attention now. To Psalm 128. A song of a sense, Blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways. You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands. You shall be blessed, and it shall be well with you. Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine within your house, your children will be like olive shoots around your table. Behold, thus shall the man be blessed who fears the Lord. The Lord bless you from Zion. May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life. May you see your children's children. Peace be upon it. See, we see the abundant kindness of God here as well. Fruitfulness, joy, delight, prosperity. Abundance, God delights to give to all those who are his. Let's pray. Father, how we need your radical kindness. We need your strong, faithful, overcoming, saving kindness because our hearts are hard and needy, sinful, rebellious, selfish. We need to be drawn out of ourselves by your kindness, drawn to repentance. It's the kindness of God that leads us to repentance. And then repenting and believing we are blessed in you abundantly richly, with with an identity, with a a place of security in your family, with abundant provisions to meet our real deep needs. Thank you. Help us to respond to your kindness with repentance and faith and joy and gratitude. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. As always, I hope today's devotional was a blessing to you. If you have any questions about anything in any of these devotionals, you can always email me. My email address is pastor at foresthillpca. org. It's pastor at foresthillpca. org. It's always good to hear from people with questions, comments, feedback. Hope you can join us again tomorrow, and as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.