Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We are learning to know our Savior better together, and we've come to resurrection in Luke 24. Today, looking at the first half of Luke 24, we're going to be asking, how do we know Jesus rose from the dead? It's the most important question for us to ask in all of life and eternity, how do we know Jesus rose from the dead? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God, there is no one like you. You are all powerful. You are wonderful. Please teach us as we look to your word today. Please write your word on our hearts as only you can. Please show us our Savior and lead us to love him and follow him better. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Alright, Luke twenty-four, verses one to thirty-five. But on the first day of the week, at early dawn They went to the tomb, taking the spices they had prepared, and they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. But when they went in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel. And as they were frightened, and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but has risen Remember how he told you while he was still in Galilee that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified, and on the third day rise? And they remembered his words And returning from the tomb, they told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. Now it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James. And the other women with them who told these things to the apostles. But these words seemed to them an idle tale, and they did not believe them But Peter rose and ran to the tomb, stooping and looking in, he saw the linen cloths by themselves, and he went home, marveling at what had happened. That very day, two of them were going to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem, and they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened. While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them, but their eyes were kept from recognizing him. And they said to them, and he said to them, What is this conversation that you were holding with each other as you walk? And they stood still. Looking sad. Then one of them, named Cleopus, answered him, Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened here in these days? And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prophet, mighty indeed and word, before God and all the people. and how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified him. But we had hoped. that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened. Moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning, and when they did not find his body they came back, saying that they had even seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive. Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see. And he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets had spoken. Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. So they drew near to the village to which they were going. He acted as if he were going farther, but they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is now far sent. So he went in to stay with them While he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them, and their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. They said to one another, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures? And they rose that same hour, and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven, and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon. Then they told what had happened on the road, and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. How do we know Jesus rose from the dead? The Christian faith hangs on a singular historical event, the resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth from the dead. In one of the earliest documents of the Christian faith, 1 Corinthians, likely dated before 57 A. D. , maybe around 55 A. D. , the Apostle Paul makes it clear that the truth and confidence of the Christian faith hangs On the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. If Jesus rose from the dead, then we can have confidence that what he taught about himself and what his disciples taught others about him is true and reliable. But if he did not rise from the dead, then as Paul says, our preaching is in vain, and your faith is in vain, and we of all people are most to be pitied. So how can we know that Jesus rose from the dead? Well, we see several pieces of evidence and sources of confidence from today's text in Luke 24. First of all, The disciples did not expect Jesus to rise from the dead. Why is this important? Well, if Jesus' disciples were fabricating the idea of the resurrection, they probably would not have depicted a scenario in which they were caught completely by surprise. In fact, what we have in the Gospel accounts is not a flattering picture of the disciples at all. Even though Jesus had told them three times that he would be crucified and would rise from the dead, they were crushed by his crucifixion. They went into hiding after his death. They disbelieved early reports about his resurrection, and they required Jesus to appear to them in person before they would believe him. All and all these facts do not make the disciples look like a clever conspiracy. It's more likely that the only thing which could have changed them from cowering in fear to standing in faith was Jesus' actual resurrection. Second, the first recorded witnesses to the resurrection were women. No one concocting a believable hoax in the ancient world would have had women positioned as the first eyewitnesses In fact, women were so easily dismissed in the ancient world that the disciples themselves thought the report of these women seemed to them an idle tale, and they did not believe them. The disciples were not gullible men who were quick to believe whatever they were told. Far from it, their initial reaction was that of dismissive skeptics. Third, even when Peter saw the empty tomb, that alone did not convince him. Verse 12 tells us that Peter rose and ran to the tomb, and stooping and looking in, he saw the linen cloths by themselves. And he went home marveling at what had happened. Marveling means he didn't understand. He was wondering. Fourth, the descriptures. testify to the death and resurrection of Jesus hundreds of years before he was born. When Jesus encountered these two men on the road to Emmaus, he did not immediately reveal himself to them. Rather He took time to show them from the scriptures, which predated the birth of Jesus by between 400 and 1500 years that his death and resurrection had been foretold. Isaiah 52 and 53, written 700 years before Christ, Psalm 22, written a thousand years before Christ, clearly depict the death and resurrection of Jesus And fifth, Jesus presented himself personally and unmistakably to his followers on multiple occasions. The Gospels recorded repeated times When Jesus showed himself to his disciples in real physical undeniable ways. This is the only thing which could have and did change their hearts and minds. This is the confidence. that took them into a hostile world to the very people who had crucified Jesus with the message that he was alive again. The good news is that we too can have the same confidence as the apostles. We may not be eyewitnesses, but we have their testimony, and the testimony of Scripture promises given hundreds of years before. Together The testimony of the Old Testament Scriptures, the testimony of the Apostles, and the inner testimony of the Holy Spirit strengthen and uphold our faith with confident joy in our risen Savior, who has indeed conquered death and hell forever. Let's go to Psalm 147. Praise the Lord, for it is good to sing praises to our God, for it is pleasant, and a song of praise is fitting. The Lord builds up Jerusalem. He gathers the outcasts of Israel. He binds the, I'm sorry, He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. He determines the number of the stars. He gives to all of them their names. Great is our Lord and abundant in power. His understanding is beyond measure The Lord lifts up the humble. He casts the wicked to the ground. Sing to the Lord with thanksgiving. Make melody to our God on the lyre. He covers the heavens with clouds. He prepares rain for the earth. He makes grass grow on the hills. He gives to the beasts their food and to the young ravens that cry. His delight is not in the strength of the horse, nor his pleasure in the legs of a man, but the Lord takes pleasure in those who fear him In those who hope in his steadfast love. Praise the Lord. O Jerusalem. Praise your God. O Zion. For he strengthens the bars of your gates. He blesses your children within you. He makes peace in your borders. He fills you with the finest of wheat. He sends out his command to the earth, his word runs swiftly. He gives snow like wool, he scatters frost like ashes, he hurls down his crystals of ice like crumbs. Who can stand? Before his cold. He sends out his word and melts them. He makes his wind blow, and the waters flow He declares his word to Jacob, his statutes and rules to Israel. He has not dealt thus with any other nation. They do not know his rules. Praise the Lord. Oh Lord God Almighty, you are worthy of our praise. You have conquered sin and death and hell, and you are alive forevermore. And you don't ask us to do anything. You don't ask us to impress you with our wisdom, with our might, with our strength, with our power. You just you delight in those who fear you. For who you are and for what you have done in your Son Jesus, our victorious Savior. Give us that confidence that we can live by joy. fearing you, loving you, and following you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well that brings us to the end of week thirty, almost to the end of Luke 24. We'll have one more devotional in Luke uh on Monday. Hope you can join me for that. Have a great weekend. Hope you can worship with God's people on the Lord's Day. Have a blessed day in the Lord.