Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus. Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to our 928th day together in the Word of God in Revelation chapter seven. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father. Your word is true. Living and active. It's powerful It's breathed out by you. It's given to us so that by the power of your Holy Spirit we can see Christ more clearly. We can have our faith strengthened. We can be corrected where we're going astray. We can be trained up in righteousness for your name's sake. So, Father, please do the work that your word is intended to do in our hearts today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Revelation chapter 7. After this, I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth. that no wind might blow on earth or sea or against any tree. Then I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun. with the seal of the living God. And he called with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm earth and sea, saying, Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees, until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads. And I heard the number of the sealed, 144,000, sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel. 12,000 from the tribe of Judah were sealed, 12,000 from the tribe of Reuben, 12,000 from the tribe of Gad, 12,000 from the tribe Tribe of Asher, twelve thousand from the tribe of Naphtali 12,000 from the tribe of Manasseh, 12,000 from the tribe of Simeon, 12,000 from the tribe of Levi Twelve thousand from the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand from the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand from the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand from the tribe of Ben Jimmen were sealed After this, I looked and behold a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes. with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb. And all the angels were standing around the throne, and around the elders, and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne, and worshipped God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God for ever and ever. Amen Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes, and from where have they come? I said to him, Sir, you know, and he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore they are before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in the temple. And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more. Neither thirst any more. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. For the lamb is in the midst for the lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their Eyes Alright, Revelation chapter seven. So here we're given This is an interlude between the seven seals and or the first six seals and the seventh seal, which is going to bring forth the seven trumpets, but we have an interlude We already have had a vision of the second coming of Christ in the form of the day of the wrath of the Lamb. And chapter six's focus was on the outpouring of judgment on the earth in the form of conquerors who go forth to conquer. So we said this is representing the great world rulers, whether it's Genghis Khan or Napoleon or Hitler or Alexander the Great or you know, pick your pick your conqueror, someone who goes out to conquer. And when they do so, they bring war, they bring famine, they bring death. That's the four horsemen of the apocalypse And of course there's going to be death of Christians as well. And the martyrs are under the altar, and they're crying out how long? And the answer is given in the sixth seal when Jesus comes again to bring the great day of wrath. So it's it's a judgment focus in Revelation 6, judgment that takes place in history with conquest, war, famine, and death, and then judgment at the end of history. in the great day of wrath of the Lamb. This is a different perspective. This is the feeling of God's people. for their preservation in the midst of tribulation. So we have this ceiling, two scenes here. We see the ceiling and then we see the sort of ingathering. And you could look at this as the beginning and then the end, with the alpha and the omega of the people of God. First they're sealed, and then they're gathered in at the end. In between, of course, they suffer tribulation. So a lot has been made of this 144,000, and some people have seen this as a literal number of 144,000, no more, no less. That's the total number of the people of God. Obviously that's not true because what we see in the second half of this chapter is that it's a a multitude that no one can count. And since they're counted here, one hundred and forty four thousand, it must be a much larger multitude than that. This is symbolic. And I said already in earlier teaching that twelve represents the number of the people of God. This is the Israel of God. This is the fulfillment of the Israel of God. So when Jacob wrestled with the Lord and he changed his name to Israel and he had twelve sons, and from his twelve sons would come the twelve tribes, this is the fulfillment. And the Israel of God is all the people of God, from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. Yes, it is believers from within the the the ethnic people of Israel within the ethnic descendants of these twelve tribes, but it is also the whole of the church. And the church is referred to as the Israel of God most explicitly um at the end of the book of Galatians. Galatians is a whole book that's given to us to teach that everyone who is of faith Is a child of Abraham, is a seed of Abraham, and inherits the promises of Abraham. So I've done other teaching on Galatians, encourage you to go look at that. But here in Galatians 6, 16 As for those who walk by this role, let's pick up verse 15 first. For neither the circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision but a new creation. And as for all who walk by this rule, peace and mercy be upon them and upon the Israel of God. This, the Israel of God, is a reference to the church. The church of the Lord Jesus Christ, the true seed of Abraham, the true heirs of the covenant promises given to Abraham are those who understand. that it is Jesus Christ and him crucified and not circumcision or uncircumcision, not the ceremonial law, not the outward markings, but rather the inner uh faith and union with Christ that matters. And so the church is called the Israel of God. And so this is a sealing of the Israel of God from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. So you have the sealing, and then he turns and he looks and he sees the fruit of that sealing. And that is a great multitude that no one can number, not just 144,000, but a countless multitude. And not just from the ethnic people of Israel, but from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. They've been brought in. They've been gathered in around the throne before the Lamb. They're clothed in white robes, which symbolizes purity, righteousness. but also victory overcoming. They have palm branches in their hands. Palm branches are a celebration of independence, of victory. Um And they break out in a sevenfold doxology, blessing and glory and wisdom, thanksgiving, honor, power, and might. be to our God forever and ever. More sevenfold praise like we saw earlier. So this is the sevenfold doxology. Before the throne of God. And just to make it clear, one of the elders, one of the twenty-four elders, comes to John and says, Who are these? Just to make sure that he understands what he's looking at. John doesn't really understand what he's looking at. He says, sir, you know. And so the elder tells him, these are the ones coming out of the Great Tribulation. They are washed. They've washed their robes and they've made them white in the blood of the Lamb. It's very significant that we get twenty-four elders. We don't get twelve and twelve. We do have twelve and twelve, but it it's twenty-four elders of one people of God. Twelve tribes of Israel, twelve apostles of the Lamb. We're going to see that at the end of the book in the foundations and the gates of the uh New Jerusalem, which is the glorified church. This is the people of God. And the people of God are the true Israel. They are the true heirs of the promises given to Abraham. Read Galatians, look at Hebrews. Um look at Romans uh eleven. We're grafted into one olive tree that has one root, and that is the gospel promise given Abraham and fulfilled in Christ. And what are they doing? They are before the throne of God. They serve him day and night in his temple. The one who sits on the throne shelters them from with his presence. They hunger no more, they thirst no more, they don't have any danger because the Lamb will be their shepherd and will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. So this is really important, this message, because we are in the Great Tribulation. I know some people when they teach Revelation, they teach this idea that the Great Tribulation is something that is going to come in the future. When the elder says these are the ones coming out of the Great Tribulation. No, this is a countless multitude from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. These are this is the whole of the Israel of God. This is the whole of the church glorified We all come out of the Great Tribulation because we are living in the Great Tribulation. How are we living in the Great Tribulation? Because while we are in this world, we are at war. If you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, you are a child of God, an ambassador for Christ, and you are engaged in spiritual warfare against the forces of wickedness. in the heavenly places that that hold sway in this world and that are being pushed back by the advance of the gospel as the light of the gospel shines into the darkness It is a battle between light and darkness. It is a battle to advance the kingdom of God on earth. It is a battle to speak the truth and to reach out in love and to be salt and light. And it is tribulation. We suffer. We suffer persecution. We suffer rejection. We suffer ridicule. We suffer mockery from the world. But the lamb in the midst of the throne is our shepherd. He guides us. He guards us. He will bring us all the way home. He guides us to springs of living water. We are refreshed in the battle by the Holy Spirit who lives within us, by worship together with God's people, by times in God. God's Word, by times in prayer, we are refreshed with springs of living water as we partake in the refreshing of the Holy Spirit through these means of grace Spending time in the Word and in prayer, spending time in gathered worship, where we hear the Word preached and we pray together as God's people, partaking in the Lord's Supper together, being baptized. We share in these springs of living water as The Lamb is our shepherd and brings us all the way home where when we get home God will wipe every tear from our eyes. So be encouraged, Christian You are living in Great Tribulation now. Great Tribulation is not something to fear that's going to come in the future. It is happening now. You are in war. Don't expect life in this world to be a vacation or a picnic. It's full of blessing, for sure. It's full of these streams of living water, for sure. But we need to remember that we are in great tribulation. We are under persecution. We are engaged in warfare. And we need to look to the Lamb who is our shepherd. We need to fix our eyes on Jesus, as Hebrews 12 says. Look to him Because he endured the suffering of the cross for the joy that was set before him, and he calls us to endure the suffering of the great tribulation for the joy that is set before us. pray. Father, thank you for this beautiful chapter in Revelation 7. Thank you that you have given us this book so that we can understand it. and live with confidence and joy, even in struggle. Sometimes we as believers wonder why is life so hard? Why am I facing opposition at every turn? Why am I so tempted? Why why does the world recall Christians somewhat It's because we're in the great tribulation. It's because we're living in the time of suffering. We're following in the footsteps of our Lord. But He is our shepherd. He's gone before us. He's made a way. And he guards us and He guides us. So be our God and be our guide and help us to follow you, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Revelation chapter 7. We're going to get back to the prophet Jeremiah tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.