Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is the 17th chapter of Revelation today. on our 972nd day in the Word of God. A little frog in my throat, ribbon. Anyway, let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much. For your love for us and for another day of life, another day to study your word together. Speak to us through Revelation 17 today. Give us eyes to see. the world as you call us to see it, our place in it, so that we might be faithful to your calling upon us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Revelation 17. Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and said to me, Come. I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth have committed sexual immorality, and with the wine of whose sexual immorality the dwellers on earth have become drunk. And he carried me away in the spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman. Sitting on a scarlet beast that was full of blasphemous names, and it had seven heads and ten horns The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and jewels and pearls, holding in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality. And on her forehead was written a name of mystery Babylon the Great, mother of prostitutes and of earth's abominations. And I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. When I saw her, I marveled greatly. But the angel said to me, Why do you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman, and of the beast with the seven heads and ten horns that carries her The beast that you saw was and is not and is about to rise from the bottomless pit and go to destruction. And the dwellers on earth, whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will marvel to see the beast, because it was and is not and is to come. This calls for a mind with wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman is seated. They are also seven kings. Five of whom have fallen, one is, and the other has not yet come. And when he does come, he must remain only for a little while. As for the beast that was and is not, it is an eighth, but it belongs to the seven, and it goes to destruction. And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings. who have not yet received royal power, but they are to receive authority as kings for one hour together with the feast. They are of one mind. And they hand over their power and authority to the beast. These are of one mind. They will make sorry, they will make war on the Lamb, and the Lamb will conquer them, for he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and those with him are called and chosen and faithful. And the angel said to me, The waters that you saw, where the prostitute is seated, are peoples and multitudes and nations and languages, and the ten horns that you saw, they and the beasts will hate the prostitute. They will make her desolate and naked, and devour her flesh, and burn her up with fire, for God has put it into the hearts, into their hearts to carry out his purpose by being of one mind and handing over their royal powers to the beast until the words of God are fulfilled. And the woman that you saw is the great city that has dominion over the kings of the earth. So this is Revelation 17. It's a very confusing chapter. Frankly it's one of the most confusing and difficult chapters. in all of Revelation to understand exactly what's going on with all these kings and crowns and heads and was and is not and is to come. Which is a direct contradiction, contrast to the Lord God the Almighty, who was and is and is to come. This is one who was and is not and is to come. So it's a real head scratcher. But we need to back up a little bit and remember that this book of Revelation is given to the church. First, to the original audience, these seven churches in Asia Minor in the first century under the Roman Empire, so it had a direct meaning and relevance for them given their cultural context. It was written to them, it was for them, to strengthen them and equip them to persevere. The call in Revelation is to persevere, to be an overcomer by those who stand fast, who hold to the Word of God and the Word of their testimony. who hold to their faith in Jesus and persevered to the end. And so it was given to these churches and to the church in that first century Roman Empire context. But then it's a a letter for the church Throughout the church age, the the big scope of what's happening is that throughout the church age, from the day of Pentecost to the day of Parousia when Jesus comes again, throughout that New Testament church age is going to be judgment from God. There's going to be conflict on earth. There's going to be persecution against God's people. There's going to be judgment on the persecutors. There's going to be wars and famine and pestilence. And all of this until Jesus comes again and settles all things and rights all wrongs and Evil is defeated with a finality. So that's the big picture story. We have to keep that big picture story in mind as we zoom in here on Revelation 17. One of the things that's very clear is that the woman The harlot, the prostitute, Babylon is Rome. Okay? It is the great city that has dominion over the kings of the earth. No one else qualifies for that except for Rome. And um to Uh to reinforce that, you have the seven heads are the seven mountains on which the woman is seated. So that is the seven hills of Rome. Okay, so this woman is Rome. The beast, we've already seen, are is represents rulers, earthly rulers. So you have Babylon the prostitute, this woman, who's rich, who's wealthy, purple and scarlet, gold and jewels and pearls. And she's wicked. She's wealthy and wicked. A golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality. You see, think about Rome, the glory of Rome in the first century. The center of the world in terms of trade, commerce, very wealthy, fabulously wealthy. Some of the people who lived in Rome in the first century are among the richest people who have ever lived in the history of the world. So, like for example, the emperor in Rome owned all of Egypt, the entire country of Egypt with his personal property. And then there were others who just owned whole countries, they owned, you know, hundreds and hundreds of slaves, acres and acres of land. uh olive oil uh factories uh production and commanded armies, they just incredibly wealthy, incredibly wealthy people. And yet what is also going on in Rome? Well, there's a lot of temples to false gods where there's a lot of sexual immorality being taken on because the way that you worshipped a goddess in the first century world was by going and having sex with a prostitute. So I mean that the idea of a prostitute here is like there's actually lots and lots of prostitutes in Rome who are applying their trade in the worship of the goddesses, the idolatry. So idolatry and sexual immorality go together in ancient Rome. And then you have the Colosseum, where people are put to death for entertainment. The entertainment of the masses. Some 55,000 people would crowd into the Coliseum and be entertained by real people being put to death in bloody spectacles. This is Rome. Meanwhile, you have the emperors who rule, and there's this sort of tension between Rome and the emperors. The emperors need the people of Rome. They need their support, and they sometimes resent that because the people of Rome are lazy and gluttonous and drunkards and sexually immoral, and yet the there's also a ruling class in Rome represented kind of by the Senate by the elite, and they're very wealthy. So there's this tension. And one way that this tension comes to a head in the first century is that the Emperor Nero burns Rome. So there's even direct reference in here about how the beast is going to make war against the woman and set her on fire. And so that's that's pretty direct, and I think that that's in part fulfilled by Nero's burning of Rome, the city that he kind of lived in and ruled over, but kind of hated and resented. And so he had it burned to the ground. So that he could rebuild it according to his own master plan. And he blamed the Christians for it, and that's actually what led to Peter and Paul and Andrew all being executed. Peter crucified upside down, Andrew crucified on an X-shaped cross, Paul beheaded. They were all executed in Rome under Nero because Nero had blamed uh the Christians for burning the city, which he himself had done. Now both the beast and the prostitute Are making war on the land. They're both persecuting God's people. And the good news is Persevere, because the Lamb will conquer. The Lamb is the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings. And those who are with him are called and chosen and faithful, even if they are faithful unto death. They belong to the Lamb. The heads and the horns are different rulers. Probably some of them are particular rulers in Rome, emperors, but also it represents a bigger picture going all the way back to the dream of the beast that was shown to Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel. Daniel chapter two and then Daniel chapter seven, because the fourth beast, which represents Roman the Roman Empire, in Daniel chapter seven, the vision of the four beasts, it had ten horns. And so, in a sense, this is bigger than just Rome. Rome is a part of the unfolding of this pattern. So what we see is that the world, the powers that really run and rule the world, are opposed to God and opposed to God's people There's the economic and cultural power of the world, the wealthy, the super elite. You look at the list of the super elite wealthy people in the world. How many of them are Christians? How many of them love the Lord? How many of them serve the church? None of them, basically. Basically, maybe a few, but not very many. And largely the way the world's economic system works and the way the world's entertainment system works is very antithetical to the gospel, to the church, to godliness. It's built on selfishness, it's built on immorality. It is not pleasing to God. And so world rulers as well, the United Nations. When the United Nations gets together, there's lots of Muslim countries. There's some atheistic communistic countries. But how many genuinely Christian voices are heard? Not very many. How often is God's truth proclaimed? Not very often. This is the way of the world. In its economics and culture and politics, it is opposed. to the ways of God. Now sometimes the political rulers actually wage war on the econom economic and cultural forces. Communist dictators, when they rose to power, they crushed the economy and they crushed the culture. Think of uh Mao Zedong in China when he took over in the Cultural Revolution. People were only allowed to read the little red book of Chairman Mao's sayings. All other Chinese culture, traditional culture was destroyed Now that traditional Chinese culture was was hostile to the gospel too. Ancestor worship and Buddhism and footbinding of women, all sorts of things, all sorts of cultural practices and realities that were idolatrous and immoral and opposed to Christianity, but it was crushed by the communist dictators when they rose to power. So this is the way the world works. It's a power-hungry, egotistical, immoral world we live in. But The main point here, let's not lose sight of it, the main point here is that reigning above, reigning above All of the delegated authority that the beast or the false prophet or the prostitute might have. Reigning above them all is the Lamb. The Lamb of God, who is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, the Lamb who sits upon the throne, holy, holy, holy, worthy, worthy, worthy. And so we do not need to be afraid. We can look around and say, oh no, the culture hates us. Oh no, politicians are against us. Oh no. Or we can say, you are sovereign. You, O Lord, are our King. We will be loyal to you and no one else, and nothing they do to us can ultimately shake us from our standing in the hands of Christ Before the throne of God, in the kingdom of God. That's the good news. That's the overarching theme here. Persevere in the faith Because when all is said and done, it is King Jesus who will reign supreme, already does reign supreme forever Let's pray. Oh King Jesus, make us loyal to you in our hearts, in our confidence, in our joyful worship, in our witness. May we be your holy people in all that we do, in all that we say, in all that we love, and all that we pursue. We pray this in your name and for your glory. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Revelation 17. Kind of a confusing chapter, but a challenging call to us to be faithful. We're going to go back to Ezekiel tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.