Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On our 925th day together, we're going back to the book of Revelation. We're getting into the prophetic visions now. We had seven letters to the seven churches, and then we had two chapters that I call the sevenfold praise of God for creation and redemption in heaven because We saw in the central praise of God, there was sevenfold praise being given to God. And now we come to seven seals. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It is beautiful, it is rich, it is powerful, it is truth, and by the power of your Holy Spirit, it's the life-changing truth. So we pray that that would be the case for us today, that your Holy Spirit would take your word and change our hearts and minds and lives. In Jesus' name, amen. All right, Revelation chapter 6. Now I watched when the lamb opened one of the seven seals. And I heard one of the four living creatures say with a voice like thunder, Come! And I looked, and behold, a white horse. And its rider had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he came out conquering and to conquer. When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, Come, and out came another horse, bright red Its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth, so that people should slay one another, and he was given a great sword. When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, Come! And I looked, and behold, a black horse, and its rider had a pair of scales in his hand. and I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, A quart of wheat for a denarius, and three quarts of barley for a denarius, and do not harm the oil and wine. When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the living fourth living creature say, Come! And I looked, and behold, a pale horse, and its rider's name was Death. And Hades followed him, and they were given authority over a fourth of the earth to kill with sword. and with famine, and with pestilence, and by wild beasts of the earth. When he opened a fifth seal I saw under the altar the souls of those who have been slain for the Word of God and for the witness they had borne. They cried out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth Then they were given each a white robe, and told to rest a little longer until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete who were to be killed as they themselves had been. When he opened the sixth seal I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth. And the full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale. The sky vanished like a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. Then The kings of the earth, and the great ones, and the generals, and the rich, and the powerful, and every one, slave and free, hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains calling to the mountains and rocks, fall on us and hide us from the face of him who was seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand? That is Revelation chapter 6, the opening of the seven-sealed scroll. This is the covenantal inheritance scroll that is uh the plans and purposes of God for the redemption of his creation. It's the scroll that caused John to weep. in Revelation 5, because no one was found in heaven or on earth or under the earth worthy to open the scroll. We talked about how it had to be a human being. Because human beings were made in the image of God and given dominion over creation. So all other categories of creatures are disqualified categorically because it has to be a human being made in the image of God, but then all human beings are sinful Until he's told, Weep no more. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah has conquered. And he turns to see the lion of the tribe of Judah, and he sees a lamb. looking as though it had been slain, standing in the midst of the throne, and this is Jesus, of course, the lion and the lamb, the one who conquers by his own defeat, by being slain. He is worthy. He's worded open the scroll. Well now he begins to open the scroll. And really, the whole of the rest of Revelation comes from the unsealing of this scroll. We get to the six seals of seven here, and then the seventh seal is going to launch the next series of seven. which is going to be the trumpet judgments that are going to come in a couple of chapters. So let's take a moment for just a minute. Let's talk about seven. in Revelation. Seven in Revelation is very important. Seven is very important. In the Bible, there are some important numbers. Three is the number of The Trinity of God, it's the number of God, holy, holy, holy, is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come the Almighty, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Four is the number of the totality of creation, the four corners of the earth, the four living creatures around the throne, with their four faces, one like an ox, and one like an eagle, and one like a man. and one like a lion. And so those are this is the totality of creation. And then seven is the is the number of God's perfect and complete work. begins at Genesis 1 with the seven days of creation. On the seventh day God rested from his creation. If you take the three of God and the four of creation and God's work in creation God's divine work complete is seven. And ten is also an important number because it does represent a completion, like a full amount. And you'll sometimes get multiples of 10, like 10,000, or 1,000, or 1,000 times 1,000, or even 10,000 times ten thousand. Those were all multiples of ten and basically a way of saying a full amount And then emphasizing the greatness and the size of that full about the other important number that we'll come to later is 12. Well, actually we already saw it because 24 elders Twelve tribes of Israel, twelve apostles of the Lamb. This represents the people of God. Twelve is the people of God. There's Old Testament, New Testament, but it's one people of God, and so there are twenty And so we'll see twelve and twenty-four and multiples of that come up later. But seven is without doubt the most important number in Revelation because what's being unfolded, and remember Revelation with the apocalypse means the unveiling or the unfolding or the revealing, right? So what's being unfolded, what's being revealed to us is the work of God in redemption from the first coming of Christ when he was found to be worthy to open the scroll, until the second coming of Christ, when he consummates his work. And we see this here in Revelation 6. He opens the scroll, see a one, two, three, four, and then five focuses on the martyrs, and six is really about the second coming. We'll see that in a minute. as we look at it more closely. But this is about the the the work of God in redeeming a people to himself. The work of creation, seven days, the work of redemption unfolds in sevens. And there are actually seven cycles of seven in Revelation. So if I can Hide this and take this. Here are the seven cycles of revelation that we find in seven letters to the churches. They're they're prefaced by this vision of Christ. who comes to John, and then we have seven letters to the churches. And then we have the worship of God in heaven and the declaration that the Lamb is worthy, followed by the opening of seven seals. The seventh seal leads to the opening of, or the sounding of seven trumpets. The seventh trumpet leads to the telling of seven histories. And then there are seven bowls of judgment, and then there are seven messages to Babylon, and then the cycle seven is the great consummation where everything is brought together and brought to its finality. Now what's interesting is each one of these seven, they end up with the second coming of Christ. So the seven letters to the seven churches, they're they're all leading up to, you know, the reward that the one who overcomes will get. So the each letter finishes is consummated with to the one who overcomes I will give his own secret name to the one who overcomes I will give a share in the tree of life So it's leading up to that final day of the Lord, second coming reward that the Lord Jesus is giving is going to give. The seven seals that are opened, the sixth seal is the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, the great day of the wrath of the Lamb of God. The seven trumpets, it leads to a storm, uh, which is the end in uh uh we'll get there. When we get there, we'll see that that's another uh second coming picture. The seven histories. The seventh history that's given is the history of the Son of Man. And his second coming and then the seven bowls that lead up to judgment day and then the seven messages to Babylon which ends with this definite fall of Babylon has fallen, and then the great consummation. And so there's seven cycles, and each of them lead us from I would say the resurrection, ascension, enthronement of Christ. Which it begins the church age when he pours out his Holy Spirit from heaven because he's enthroned and he's declared worthy, and he pours out his Holy Spirit at Pentecost. until the second coming of Christ. And so what we have is what we call recapitulation or the same history First coming to second coming, or more technically from Pentecost to Parousia, from the well outpouring of the Holy Spirit to begin the New Testament church age to the second coming of Christ on the clouds to close everything. consummation. This same history is being retold multiple times from multiple different angles. And so there's one angle that's being displayed in the seven seals. There's another angle or aspect that's being displayed displayed in the seven trumpets. There's another aspect of it that's being displayed in the seven histories, yet another aspect of even more severe judgment that's being shown in the seven bowls. But all of them lead up to the second coming of Christ. So to see this It helps to just dig into the text here in Revelation chapter 6. But if somebody wanted to know how many sevens there are in Revelation, well there's seven cycles of seven. That would give you 49-ish. The Great Consummation isn't necessarily seven things there. You can sort of force it into seven, but it's the great consummation. Different people have counted up different ways. If you count things like the sevenfold praise that we see in Revelation 4 and 5, and we see other things like that. I mean it really is at least 50 different probably 55 is probably the best count that I've seen different sevens that are in Revelation Which is a lot. It's a very, very, very important number for understanding this book. So let's begin with Revelation 6, and we'll see this first cycle of 7. So here we get the very famous four horsemen of the apocalypse. So you've probably heard about them in pop culture. They've made reference to all sorts of ways, the four horsemen of the apocalypse. And the fourth one is is the rider on the pale horse, the pale rider death. He's probably the most interesting infamous of these four. But really what we have here, remember the Lamb is opening the seals. So this is coming sovereignly from the throne of God under the authority of the Lamb. And what it is, is great rulers who rise up to conquer other nations. And in so doing they bring war and famine and death on the earth. So horse one, the White Rider, those are the conquerors. Think Alexander the Great Think Julius Caesar. Think Napoleon. Think Adolf Hitler. The great conquerors in the history of the world. They're under God's sovereign control. That's a good thing. But when they go out to conquer, when they go out to conquer it, they bring war. The Red Horse is war. Taking peace from the earth so that people would slay one another, given a great sword. Well, conquest and war brings famine. Always brings famine. And so this third seal, this third horse, the black horse, this thing that's being said at the throne is scarcity. You have to pay a full day's wage to get a quart of wheat. That's barely going to feed your family a little bit just to stay alive. You might get three quarts of barley for that, but that's still not, and do not harm the oil in the wine. So there's great scarcity because there's famine And all of this, of course, is going to bring death, and that's the fourth rider, the pale horse. And conquest, military conquest. imperial people taking over the world, causing war and famine and death, is limited. It's sent out by God's sovereignty. Each one of these is summoned by one of the four living creatures, saying, Come So this is all under God's sovereign control, and it's limited, only a fourth of the earth. So even the worst wars in the history of the world have always been limited And in this case it's a fourth of the earth, but that's like the maximum. Could never take more than that. Even World War II, where some fifty to seventy-five million people were killed. but still not even a fourth of the world's population, or not even a fourth of the population of those countries who were involved. Because God God is sovereign over these things and God limits these things. But they come at his beckoning For his purposes. What are his purposes? To judge the earth. Because the earth is in rebellion against God, its judgment on the earth. The fifth seal takes us from looking at earth and conquerors and war and famine and death to looking up into heaven. And up in heaven we see the martyrs, those who've been slain for the word of God and for the witness they've borne. And they are under the altar. That means they are before the throne of God. That means they are interceding. They're asking, O sovereign Lord, holy and true. Let's pause there for a minute. They've been killed for their testimony. They've been killed for being faithful to Jesus. And they still worship God, and they call him the sovereign Lord. That is the one who is in control and who rules over all things, who is holy in a category all by himself and true to be relied upon, dependable, faithful, unfailing. O Sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth? earth. And they were each given a white robe, and they were told to rest a little longer until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete who were to be killed as they themselves had been. So here's a hint that when the Bible says a little longer or a little while or soon, it can sometimes mean a long period of time. Because it's been almost 2,000 years since John wrote Revelation and had this vision, and there are still men and women in the world being martyred For the Word of God and for the witness they have borne. In fact, some estimates are that there have been more Christians martyred for their faith in the past 100 years than in the previous 1900 years combined. Now, I don't know if that's 100% accurate, but we do know that there are still lots of martyrs. The number of the martyrs is not yet complete. And when the number of the martyrs is complete, Jesus will judge the earth, all those who dwell in the earth, and will bring vengeance, holy vengeance for the blood of the martyrs. That's a picture of what's going to happen at the second coming. And then we come to verse 12 where we get the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And there are some people who want to say that Revelation 6 was all fulfilled in A. D. 70, that this is all about the destruction of Jerusalem in AD 70. And to that I just say, Ain't no way, Jose. No way, no way. Number one, martyrdom did not stop after the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. C. Not even close. It was just getting started. Two, what happens here with the sixth seal is in no way fulfilled by what happens uh to Jerusalem in A. D. seventy, except that perhaps Jerusalem receives the judgment of God for their violence because they led the persecution of Christians for the first forty years of the church They receive their judgment for the persecution as a first fruit of the judgment that will come at the second coming. But if you look at what happens here, right The kings of the earth, the great ones, the generals, the rich and the powerful, and everyone slave and free, hid themselves You know, the sky vanished like a scroll with being rolled up, every mountain and island removed from its place, the stars of the sky fell to the earth. This did not happen in AD 70, not even symbolically. Maybe in a little tiny picture of a prelude, but this was not fulfilled in A. D. 70. And it's actually very clear as you read the description of what happens with the seventh seal that this is the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the parousia. This is the revelation of Jesus Christ and the outpouring of his wrath, which is knowing seeing this for the first time, I remember seeing this in my twenties. I saw this for the first time. Wait, this is clearly depicting the second coming of Jesus. That blew my mind, and it meant that I had to reorder the whole way that I understood Revelation. Because I've been taught to understand Revelation as one storyline from Revelation 6, the opening of the first seal, all the way to Revelation 20 and the second coming of Jesus, that it was one stor future story of life during the tribulation, the great tribulation. That's what I was taught in the futurist thing. But this is clearly the second coming of Jesus. They even say it at the very end, when all the people of the earth, all the people of the earth, kings, great ones, generals, rich, powerful, and everyone slave and free, everyone in the whole world. is saying, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. Verse 17, for the great day of their wrath has come. and who can stand. Now there's not multiple great days of the wrath of God and of the Lamb. There's one great day of the wrath of God and the Lamb, and that is judgment day That is the day of the Lord. That is the day of Jesus' second coming. It's described in 1 Thessalonians 4. It's described by Jesus. in his teaching to his disciples. And this is the great day that is in picture here at the end of Revelation 6. Jesus is coming again. How long? A little while. Two things we know have to happen before that day comes. Number one, the gospel has to go to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation in all the earth. They all have to know who Jesus is. It has to be told to them about Jesus. And second, the number of the martyrs has to be fulfilled. So there's a certain number of people who are going to give their life for the testimony of Jesus When that number is fulfilled, it will coincide with the gospel reaching every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. And when that is fulfilled, the seven Purpose of sevenfold purpose of the redemption plan of God will be fulfilled and Jesus will come again Well, we're just getting started really with really with Revelation. There's so much to see in this wonderful book. We'll be coming back to it every three days or so. Hope you can continue with us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this wonderful, powerful book. It is so beautiful, it is so glorious. Some people think this is a scary book because there's mysterious things here But what is plain and simple is wonderful to understand, that you are in control. That you are sovereign over all things, that you are holy and true, and that you are accomplishing your purposes, and that you will accomplish your purposes. The world is not spinning out of control. The world is not utter chaos. It is under your sovereign hand, and we can trust you. If the martyrs can trust you, we can trust you. Come quickly, Lord Jesus. We pray this. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Revelation 6. Tomorrow we're going back to the prophet Jeremiah. Have a blessed day. The Lord.