Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Revelation 20 is on tap for us today. As we're nearing the end of this wonderful book, and we're getting inching ever closer to the end of our three-year journey through the Word of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word that is powerful, living, and active. Thank you for your faithfulness that is unwavering, your steadfast love that is our hope. and the anchor for our souls and our lives every day. Please speak to us through your word today. Build us up in Christ, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Revelation chapter 20 Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, holding in his hand the key to the bottomless pit, and a great chain. And he seized the dragon, that ancient serpent who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years, and threw him into the pit. and shut it and sealed it over him so that he might not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were ended After that he must be released for a little while. Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom The authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the Word of God, and those who had not worshipped the beast or its image, and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands, they came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life. Until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection. Over such the second death has no power. But they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years. And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison and will come out to deceive the nations that are at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog. to gather them for battle. Their number is like the sand of the sea. And they marched up over the broad plain of the earth, and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city. But fire came down from heaven and consumed them. And the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulphur where the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night for ever and ever. Then I saw a great white throne, and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away. And no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them according to what they had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, He was thrown into the lake of fire. This is Revelation chapter 20, as we come to the end. of human history in this age and the final judgment day is more explicitly presented to us. Remember the outline of Revelation that we've been working in in cycles of repeated uh history. Re basically looking at the whole of the church age from different angles and from different perspectives. We saw it as seals that were opened and horsemen that rode forth As God's judgment was unfolded, we saw it as trumpets that were blasted and and natural disasters and plagues and man-made ecological disaster was unveiled. We saw more severe judgments like like the plagues that were sent on Egypt in the bold judgments. We also saw it in the form of seven characters who were there, like the dragon and the woman and the child and the beast and the false prophet and and the harlot of Babylon. All these are different ways of looking at the spiritual realities that are behind life in this world. During the church age. Where Jesus is on his throne, he is worthy to open the scroll, he's opening the scroll He's reigning from heaven. He's surrounded by 24 elders, four living creatures, and a countless multitude of people. Remember the souls of the martyrs are under the altar. We saw that back in chapter 6, and they're crying out to the Lord. We also saw A picture of 144,000 sealed and a vast multitude redeemed out of the tribulation, reigning with Christ. And so we're getting these different perspectives on the same History, and that is the history between Pentecost and the Parousia, the church age, when Christ is on his throne and the Holy Spirit is empowering the church to be a witness for Christ. Judgment is being poured out from heaven, conflict on earth, the gospel advancing until Jesus comes again. We've had several indications of this cycle that repeats, like like watching a play in football on instant replay from different angles. to see if you can get more information from one perspective or another. Here we come to chapter 20 and we're doing the same thing. That perspective helps us to understand this thousand years that we see here at the beginning of Revelation 20. Different people have different ways of understanding this. Because we had the second coming of Jesus at the end of chapter 19. And he comes and he takes particularly the beast and the false prophet and throws them into the lake of fire, and the rest of the slain, the rest of the earth were slain by the sword from the mouth of him who's sitting on the throne. This is clearly the second coming of Jesus at the end of chapter nineteen So because now we have a millennium being described in chapter 20, excuse me. Some people have said that we should be expecting the pre-millennial return of Christ. And so premillennialism or the premillennial perspective is that Christ is going to come back pre or before the millennium, because they would say, straightforward reading or revelation is that Jesus comes back in chapter. Chapter 19, and then we have the millennium in chapter 20. To which I would say, well, Jesus has come back several times in Revelation already because it's not a straight linear telling, it's a recapitulation, it's progressive parallelism, it's multiple. perspectives on the same bit of history. We had the second coming of Jesus in the form of the day of the wrath of the Lamb in chapter 6. We had it in chapter 11 and chapter 13. Repeatedly we've seen the culmination and the coming of Christ. So what we could have here, what I think we have here is yet another recapitulation. We're we're looking at now the perspective of the church age from the reality that Satan is bound and Christ is reigning. That's the main focus in chapter twenty. Satan is bound, and Christ is reigning with the saints right now This is what I like to call now millennialism, but is most frequently called a millennialism, which I think is a little bit of a misnomer because a means no as an A atheist, autheism. And so they'd say there is no millennium. Well I wouldn't say there's no millennium. I would say we're living in the millennial age right now. Now many people trip out about that and say, no, why are we living in the millennial age now? Because millennial age is supposed to be this wonderful earthly kingdom of Christ. Well that's only from a premillennial perspective, you see. People who take a premillennial perspective, they then go back to the Old Testament prophets And much of what is probably about the new heavens and the new earth and life in the new creation, like the lion laying down with the lamb, and uh bear eating straw like an ox, etc. , they take those things and they say that's the millennium. Well, there's nothing in those passages that says it's the millennial kingdom. They're just saying that's what's going to come in the future in the day of the Lord. Which is just as reasonable, probably even more so reasonable to say that's a picture of life in the new heavens and the new earth after Jesus comes again. The fact is this is the only passage in all of Scripture where we have a thousand-year reign of Christ with Satan bound It's the only time it's mentioned in all of Scripture. And I don't think that God is introducing a brand new doctrine, a brand new concept about redemptive history here Two chapters before the end of the Bible, in the very last book of the Bible. I would say what we have here is the same thing that we've had, and that is a perspective on the life that we're living. But how can I say that Satan is bound? Well, in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, where Paul writes about the man of lawlessness, He talks about the one who restrains Satan and until he's removed, and when he's removed, the man of lawlessness will be revealed. So there is a restrainer, the one who's restraining Satan. And I think that's why Satan works in this world through the beast and the false prophet through political leaders and false religion, because he himself is bound from deceiving the nations the way that he was able to deceive the nations under the old covenant age. Think about it. For two thousand years, God's covenant of grace was at work in the world through Abraham and his descendants and the people of Israel. God was revealing himself through prophets and priests and kings and sacrifices and ceremonies. The light of God was in the world in Israel, but it didn't get beyond Israel. It was it was contained and Satan was deceiving all the nations and keeping them in darkness. He locked them in darkness of unbelief for millennia. Until Pentecost, when the Holy Spirit's poured out, and then all these people from all these different nations have come together And they hear the gospel in their own language and they believe. And there's more people who convert to God on the day of Pentecost, and we have recorded in the whole of Scripture before that, in terms of conversions coming to the Lord. Now, within the Book of Acts we have the Gospel going out throughout the Roman Empire, as far west as Spain, Ethiopia, the Ethiopian eunuch. We know from other church history that within the Apostolic Age the Gospel goes to India. It goes throughout the Roman Empire, it goes into Africa. So the gospel spreads from Spain to India. From Ethiopia to Greece, all around. Within one generation. How is that happening if Satan is still free That's why the gospel can go forward with power. Because he is bound, he is restrained. But the day is coming, as 2 Thessalonians says, when the restrainer will be removed. And he will be released for a little while. When he's released for a little while, The the final battle will happen. I believe this gog and magog final battle that's described in chapter twenty is the same as the final battle that we had back in chapter nineteen. It's some people call it Armageddon, some people call it the final battle. Gog and Magog, it's it's one and the same battle. We had it in chapter 19. It's being referenced again in chapter 20. It takes place when Satan is released for a short time right before Jesus comes again. And while Satan is restrained and Jesus is reigning, the saints are reigning with Christ. All those who believe in Christ have come to life. They have shared in the first resurrection. Jesus said, I am the resurrection. in the life. Whoever believes in me shall never die. If we believe in Christ, we have received Already eternal life. We've been resurrected in our souls. Our souls are alive to God and alive in Christ. And over us The second death has no power. The second death has no power, verse six says. And we reign with Christ. Our prayers are used by God. We saw this early in Revelation. Our prayers get lifted up as incense before Christ, and then they get answered in judgment, in acts of justice and righteousness in the world. The saints who are in glory, they're under the altar. They're before the throne of God. The saints who are on earth, our prayers are being lifted up. We reign with Christ now. Our prayers make a difference now because Satan is bound and because Christ is on his throne. But it's not going to be that way forever because Satan will be released. And then the battle will happen. It could be a pretty quick battle because when Jesus comes, there's no opposing him, and he will wipe out the gathered armies of the earth. I don't know what this is going to look like. Some people think it's going to literally be a gathering of all the armies of the earth on the Plain of Armageddon in Israel. I think that's highly unlikely there's no way you could fit all the armies of the earth on a plane in Israel. I think it's more likely that it's some sort of worldwide persecution of Christians, um, an organized attack on the people of God that that Jesus will cut short, that Jesus will intervene in and save his people from. And then comes What I think is the clearest part of chapter 20, and that is the Great White Throne judgment. Jesus comes as the judge. He tells us that when he comes again. We will sit with him and judge the nations. Even judging angels, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians. So we sit with Christ, and books are opened. Now, some people, some unbelievers, even some Christians, professing Christians, think that it's unfair or narrow minded or hard that only Christians get to go to heaven, that all the non-Christians are going to go to hell just because they don't believe in Jesus. But if you actually read what's being told here in Revelation 20, unbelievers do not End up in the lake of fire because they don't believe in Jesus. The reason for it is because of what they have done. They are judged. According to what is written in the books, according to what they had done. Verse 12. Everybody is judged according to their life, their deeds. evidence is presented. The record of their lives is read. And according to the standard that they're very well aware of, Romans 2 says that everybody has the law written on their conscience to let them know what's right and what's wrong. Everybody, everybody has repeatedly done what they know is wrong, what they know they shouldn't do, what they condemn others to do. for doing. They lie, they cheat, they do wrong, they betray, they break their promises, and they'll be judged for that. They will be judged. And the reason why is because they've done these things. Well, what about believers? Well, believers' names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life, which means that Christ has already suffered hell for us on the cross. Christ has already taken the wrath of God upon himself. So if our name is written in his book, that's the ones that he's paid for their sins. He's paid for our sins with his precious blood. We are forgiven. We will not have to pay for our sins because Christ has already paid for them. We will not have to suffer hell for our sins because Christ already suffered it on the cross. And so on judgment day there will be no injustice done to anybody. There will be justice done to those who will be punished for their sins, for what they have done in the body by their own choice. And there will be mercy and grace shown for those who deserve condemnation, but Christ was already condemned in our place. We're in the Lamb's Book of Life. How blessed are those who shall be able to do it? share in the first resurrection and whose names are in the Lamb's book of life. I hope that's you. I hope that you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ for your salvation, not trusting in yourself, not trusting in you have done enough and you're a good person. Because if they're going to open the books and judge you on the basis of what you've done, we've all done, we have all done enough to deserve hell forever. Only if Jesus cleanses us only if we share in the first resurrection by believing in the one who is the resurrection and the life Can our sins be forgiven? And we not have to face justice on the last day because Jesus faced it for us already. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Lord Jesus, thank you for taking our place and suffering the justice that we deserve. We love you and thank you. We ask that you would make us faithful to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for Revelation Twenty tomorrow. Tomorrow we're going to head back to Ezekiel. Have a blessed day in the Lord.