Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Ben Femmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 940th day Together in the Word of God. And we are here in Revelation chapter 10 today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word that is powerful. living and active, perfect, transformative by the power of your Holy Spirit. May your Holy Spirit who inspired these words write them on our hearts today, we pray, in Jesus' name Amen. Alright, Revelation chapter ten. Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven wrapped in a cloud with a rainbow over his head. And his face was like the sun, and his legs like pillars of fire. He had a little scroll open in his hand, and he set his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land and called out with a loud voice like a lion roaring. When he called out, the seven thunders sounded. And when the seven thunders had sounded, I was about to write But I heard a voice from heaven saying, Feel up what the seven thunders have said, and do not write it down. And the angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land raised his right hand to heaven and swore by him who lives for ever and ever, who created heaven, and what is in it, the earth and what is in it, and the sea and what is in it, that there will be no more delay. But that in the days of the trumpet call, to be sounded by the seventh angel, the mystery of God would be fulfilled, just as he announced to his servants the prophets. Then the voice that I heard from heaven spoke to me again, saying, Go, take the scroll that is open in the hand of the angel who is standing on the seat So I went to the angel, and I told him to give me the little scroll, and he said to me, Take and eat it. It will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be as sweet as honey. And I took the little scroll from the hand of the angel. and kings. Alright, Revelation chapter 10. We have this mysterious seven thunders that we have to deal with, but we have a mighty angel Wrapped in a cloud, with a rainbow over his head, face like the sun, legs like pillars of fire. Some of these descriptions are very similar to the descriptions of Christ And so there's some people who think that this is Christ. He comes with a cloud, his face shines like the sun, his legs are like pillars of fire. fire, his voice voice roars like a lion. But this is not Christ, because he's said to be an angel, and we never see John worshiping this angel. He never falls down at his feet like a dead man never never bows down and calls him Lord. Um and so we know this isn't Christ, but this is certainly one who comes with the glory of God And so those who are in proximity to God, those who are sent by God, bear the glory of God. And so to be to be wrapped in a cloud, like the pillar of cloud, like the glory cloud in Exodus and Then that came upon the temple when Solomon dedicated it and that left the temple in the days of Ezekiel is is the presence of God, the glorious presence of God. The rainbow is Is the glory, the majesty of God, the face shining like the sun is this strength, this power, this authority, the legs like pillars of fire is against With a glorious strength, with an authority and with and with power to act. And he's got a little scroll. And he calls out. He's got a foot on the sea, he's got a foot on the land. I think this is a picture that God is sovereign over land and sea. We're gonna see later a beast come from the sea and a beast come from the land, but the Lord is sovereign over all. We're given this mighty angel first before we get to the beast because this mighty angel shows us things. God is sovereign, that the Lord rules, that this is the Lord's dominion, this is my father's world. Though the wrong seems oft so strong, God is the ruler yet And so here is this mighty angel. And then there are seven thunders. He says, calls out with a with a voice like a lion roaring again with power and strength and authority. And there's seven thunders Seven thunders. But John's not allowed to write about them. There's going to be no more delay. When the seventh trumpet sounds, it's going to be it. The mystery of God will be fulfilled, just as he announced to his servant. What is going on here? Well, I think two things. One is there does come a time when God says, no more judgments, no more temporal judgments. We've already had the temporal judgments of conquering rulers who bring about war, famine, disease, death. We've had natural disasters. We've had demonic oppression. There could be other ways that God would judge, but God at some point says, Forget it, I'm not going to do it. Do any more temporal judgments? They don't really do eternal good anyway, because we know that after all these temporal judgments at the end of chapter nine we looked at A few days ago, people didn't repent. They didn't repent. So why would God keep pouring out temporal judgments when people aren't repenting anymore? And yet. The seven thunders had sounded. And it's just that John didn't write them down. So another way to look at this, and this is probably the way that I prefer, is to say there are ways in which God judges, there are ways in which God moves in history that are not made known to us. This takes us back to a great biblical principle found in Deuteronomy 29-29. And so we're given what we're given as revelation so that we can obey that revelation, trust in the Lord, and follow him. But there are things that God is doing that he is not revealing. belong to. We have to say, the Lord knows what he's doing. So many times there are things that happen and we're like, what is this? Well, we know that natural disasters, we know that man-made ecological disasters, we know that demonic oppression, we know that um war and famine and disease and death, all these things come from the hand of God as judgments. But sometimes it's like, wait a minute, is this a judgment? It doesn't seem to be any sin that's causing it, or maybe it doesn't seem to fit into one of those categories. It's something perplexing and different. What's going on? And sometimes we just have to say we don't We don't know what's going on because God hasn't revealed everything. He's revealed a lot. He's told us that He's sovereign over everything and He asks us to trust Him And so there are things that God has not revealed, and for those things we have to trust Him. I think that's one of the big lessons from Revelation 10. The other big lesson from Revelation 10 is that God's word. is to be received with gratitude and joy, even though it might make our stomach bitter. This is this idea that you eat and it's Sweet in your mouth goes back to Ezekiel in Ezekiel chapter three, and when Ezekiel was told, told to eat the scroll that was written on both sides as the plan of God, the revelation of God. We receive God's Word. We hear God's Word. We read God's Word. We study God's Word. We hear it preached, and we receive it, and it's sweet because it tells us about the God who made us and about the purpose that He has for the world. about the kingdom that he has and about the forgiveness that is ours in Jesus Christ, about our place as God's children to be adopted into his family forever. And we rejoice for God's word is sweet. But the reality as it settles down is that many peoples and nations and languages and kings are This is the judgment, John 3 says. This is the judgment. Light has come into the world. But men loved darkness rather than light because their deeds were were evil. And for those people, the light coming is judgment. It brings pain, it brings exposure, it brings wrath. So, what do we learn from Revelation chapter 10? Number one, something we've seen throughout this book: God is sovereign over all. He is Number two, there are things that God is doing in this world that we do not understand that have not been explained to us, and especially in those things we have to trust in. We need to eat God's word. It's daily bread, it's manna from heaven, it's milk, it's meat. We need to eat it. We need to internalize it. We need to take it in, believe it. Sweet in our mouth, bitter in our stomach, that's the reality sometimes. We have loved ones who don't know the Lord, who reject the Lord, who are under God's judgment. You've probably lost loved ones that you didn't know if they do the Lord, and you're not sure of their eternal destiny because you don't know if they were right with God. This is part Of the truth, of the kingdom of God, of the sword of the Spirit that cuts and penetrates. And so in all things, we have to say, to God be the glory. Because he has the power, he has the authority, he has the glory, he has the wisdom, he has the strength, he has the right. And that we've received grace instead of judgment Is for us to rejoice, even as we weep. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for loving us and giving us a place in your family forever Thank you for forgiving our sins, for washing us clean. Thank you for giving us your word that we can internalize, meditate on, believe, trust, live. Help us to live it. By faith for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that's Revelation 10. We're going to be finishing up Jeremiah the next couple of days. 51 and 52 are on tap. You can join me for those next couple of days. Have a blessed day in the Lord.