Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and it is good to be with you on day 1916, day one. Day 916. Maybe I'm anticipating 1000 coming. I don't know where that one came from. We're here in Revelation chapter 4. Uh still enjoying my vacation up in the Lake Blue Ridge. uh in Georgia and uh Revelation four. This together Revelation four and five. We're not going to get to chapter five for several days. We got two more in Jeremiah and then a day in the Psalms and two more in Jeremiah and then Revelation five. So Um normally I look at these two chapters together as one big scene in heaven, but we'll break it up, we'll leave the suspense uh for what's what's going to come in in a few days when we get back to Revelation 5. But a great scene in heaven this morning. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and for your faithfulness to us. Thank you for the book of Revelation and what we're learning so far, how we're seeing Jesus, Jesus present among his church, Jesus ruling, Jesus disciplining, Jesus blessing and protecting. We pray today as we come into Revelation 4 that you would write this word on our hearts so deeply and truly that we would know you, that we would Follow you, that we would honor you, that we would worship you more sincerely, more in spirit and in truth for the time we spend in Revelation 4 today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Revelation 4. After this, I looked and behold, a door standing open in heaven. And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this At once I was in the Spirit, and behold a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne, and he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders clothed in white garments, with golden crowns on their heads From the throne came flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass, like crystal. And around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures. Full of eyes in front and behind, the first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, and the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight And the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, are full of eyes all around and within, and day and night they never cease to say, holy! Holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, who lives forever and ever. The twenty-four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne and worship him who lives forever and ever. They crash They cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things. And by your will they existed and were created. That is Revelation 4, and you can see the next chapter is the scroll and the land. We'll get to that in a few days, like I said. But here we are in Revelation 4. This is the throne room of heaven. John is caught up. In this stunning vision of heaven's throne room, a door standing open in heaven. Can you imagine? Being summoned to look, to get a vision of heaven. This is what John is privileged to be given. The first voice, the one he heard sounding like a trumpet, which is Jesus, that's the voice of Jesus. says to him, come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. Now notice that when John gets called up into heaven for this vision, he doesn't see his lost loved ones. He doesn't see meadows of green grass and beautiful trees and, you know, unicorns. It it it's not a fantasy world. It it is the throne room of God Almighty. God is in the middle. Jesus is right there showing him what is happening. And it's it's it's the worship of God. It's God-centered. That's what heaven is. Heaven is the dwelling place of God. Heaven is the presence of the Lord God Almighty. Those who don't love God, those who don't know God, those who don't want God to be any part of their lives Will not be welcome in heaven. They won't want to be in heaven. It's the last place you'd want to be in the presence of a holy, holy, holy God whom you've denied your whole life. But Jesus invites him and he says, I will show you what must take place after this. Now, a lot has been made of this particular verse, and people who take a futurist view of the book of Revelation would say The seven letters to the seven churches, they represent the seven church ages. And when you get to the end of the seven church ages, everything from chapter four on is the tribulation, the final seven years of planet Earth when the church is removed from the world because we don't see the church anymore after chapter three And I will just say that I vehemently disagree with that viewpoint. I used to hold that viewpoint myself when I was a teenager or a young adult, but I vehemently disagree with that. Revelation is showing us what is happening. This is written to the churches in Asia Minor in the first century. They're about to suffer persecution. They're about to have the first Roman Empire-wide pretty serious persecution that's going to come shortly after Revelation is written And God is preparing them for this persecution. There have been some persecutions. Peter and and and James and Paul and Andrew had all been executed as apostles. In fact, almost all the other apostles had been executed one time or another, one place or another. But this is going to be much more s systemic. And so God's giving them a glimpse. God's giving his church a glimpse into heaven so that they can see who rules and who reigns over all these things. What is happening? From here on out, the rest of Revelation, what is happening, is being orchestrated from the throne room of God. We start in the throne room of God to know judgment that's coming, persecution that's coming. It's all under the sovereign rule of God. That's why we're taken to heaven's throne room first before the unfolding of the rest of the book. Which is for the church. Throughout the church age, especially for times of difficulty and persecution. And so it's for us. It's not for some time way off in the future. So he was in the Spirit, and there was a throne in heaven. And there's one seated on the throne. We're not given like a picture of God. We're given a symbolic representation of God. He who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian. That's not a picture. That's just He's glorious. He is absolutely glorious beyond our comprehension. Jasper, Carnelian, there's a rainbow There is a rainbow that has an appearance of an emerald. How does that can you even you can't even really picture that in your mind? It's just glorious. Glorious. It is to show us that God is splendid, God is majestic, God is glorious. And around his throne there are 24 thrones. And these are the twenty-four elders clothed in white garments with golden crowns on their heads. Who are the twenty-four elders? Well, twenty-four in Revelation represents The twelve tribes of Israel and the twelve apostles of Christ as one people of God. So twenty-four elders represent the elders of the people of God. It's a way of showing us that Israel and Old Testament, the Church of the New Testament, they are now united together as one people of God with 24 elders, 12 tribes, 12 apostles. The elders themselves have white garments. They are righteous with the righteousness of Christ. They have golden crowns on their heads. They have authority that's been given to them. to rule under Christ over all things. From the throne comes flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder. Before the throne, seven burning torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. before the throne as it were a sea of glass like crystal. Power. Power. Lightning and thunder. Holiness, fire, glass, the Holy Spirit, who the Holy Spirit is is the member of the Trinity, third person of the Trinity, who who innate who enacts, who applies, who manifests the the will of God in the world. It's the Spirit who changes hearts. It's the Spirit who's hovering over the face of the deep creations. It's the Holy Spirit who applies. The power of God, the wisdom of God, the glory of God into creation as God works. Around the throne, each side of the throne, four living creatures. These are the seraphim. These are uh The with a cherubim, these are the um the living creatures around the front of God. We've seen them in Isaiah, we've seen them in Ezekiel. They have what we get here in Revelation has attributes of what we picked up in Isaiah with six wings. And then attributes of what we saw in Ezekiel with the eyes all around and within. And there's four creatures, a lion, because he's the king of the wild animals. The ox, because he's the strongest and most powerful of the domesticated animals. A man, because men are given dominion over all creation as the image bearers of God and an eagle in play because the eagle is the most powerful of the order of birds and fishes. This all goes back to Genesis 1. There are orders of animals. There are the birds and fishes, which are one. Fish swim in the water. Birds swim in the sky. Or you could say birds fly in the sky and fish swim through the water. They're one order. They're made on day five. And then you have land animals, and you have the domesticated and the wild, then you have man who's over. This is a picture again of God's sovereignty. He rules over all of his creation. And he's worshipped by all of his creation. People made in God's image, people created to know God are the ones who rebel against God and who defame his image and will be judged. But God is sovereign over all of his creation. He's worshipped by all of his creation. And the eyes all around him within, that's the omniscience, the all-seeing, all-knowing. Power of God. And what do they say? Day and night they never cease to say, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who it who was and is and is to come. Holy, holy, holy. Trifold, the holiness of God, means his utter otherness, his godness. He's in a category by himself, he's without peer, he's without equal, he's beyond comparison, he is God. It's a word that encapsulates the godness of God, the uniqueness, the glory, the set apartness the transcendence. He is the Lord God Almighty, Lord Sovereign, God mighty, how mighty, almighty And he was and he is and he is to come. And this is probably John's adaptation of the divine name, Yahweh, or Jehovah. where this word I am in the Hebrew is timeless in the aspect of the verb and that it's I was who I am and evermore will be who was and is and is to come So John probably in Revelation when he says who wasn't, isn't, is to come, is really translating into Greek and applying the divine name. God is unchanging. He is who he is, who he always was, who he always will be. The one who was and is and is to come. He never changes. He never needs anything. He's not dependent. He's God. He's God I I I really think that so much of our struggles in life and our faith would be solved if we just really believed that God is God. But he's got it. He's sovereign. He's all-knowing. He's holy. He's wise. He's majestic. He's glorious. He reigns That would give us such peace if we believed that in our heart and lived it. Now, whenever the living creatures say, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come, then the 24 elders fall down before him. And they cast their crowns before the throne. So when this has happened well, they never stopped day and night ceasing to do this. And so they just as The four living creatures never stop saying, Holy, holy, holy. So the 24 elders never stop bowing down before the throne, casting down their thrones, and saying, Worthy are you. God is holy, and God is worthy. The essence of worship lies in that. declaring, proclaiming, singing, believing, the holiness of God and the worthiness of God. Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. Why? For you created all things. And by your will they existed and were created. He is the Almighty Creator. We wouldn't exist without him. Nothing would exist without him. It is easier to picture God without a universe than a universe without God. Because without God, there's no universe. But without the universe, you still have God. You see, he is the Alpha and the Omega. He's the beginning and the end. He's the one who made and sustains all things. And so he's worthy of our worship. He's worthy of our trust. May he be the center of our lives, personally and in his church. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your glory Thank you for your Son, our Savior, who grants us access into your throne realm of grace through his shed blood through his intercession. Just as John was escorted into heaven by Jesus, so we can come before you through Jesus, your Son, our Savior. May we worship you in spirit and in truth, in our hearts and minds and lives. In our families, our homes, our churches. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, that is Revelation chapter 4. Tomorrow we're going to go back to Jeremiah. And I hope you can join me for that though, Jeremiah 35. Have a blessed day, be the Lord.