Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Thank you for joining me for our 913th day together in the Word of God. As we are in Revelation chapter 3, let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good. Your love endures forever. Your faithfulness to your church, your saving grace. Your power, your presence, your provision. It's all too wonderful for us to begin to understand. We need you. As we turn to your word today, we pray that you would speak to us and write your word on our hearts. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Revelation chapter 3. We continue with the letters. Three more letters in this chapter. And to the angel of the church in Sardis, write, the words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead. Wake up and strengthen what remains, and is about to die. For I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God. Remember, then what you have received and heard. Keep it And repent. If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you. Yet you still have a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white for they are worthy. The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life I will confess his name before my father and before his angels. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write, The words of the Holy One, the true one, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens. I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word. and have not denied my name. Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not but lie, behold, I will make them come, and bow down before your feet. and they will learn that I have loved you. Because you have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth. I am coming soon. Hold fast what you have, so that no one may seize your crown The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God the new Jerusalem, which comes down from God out of heaven, and my own new name. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. And to the church, to the angel of the church in Laodicea, write. The words of the Amen. the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation. I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot Would that you were either cold or hot. So because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth For you say I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich, and white garments, so that you may clothe yourself And the shame of your nakedness may not be seen. And salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline. So be zealous and repent. Behold, I stand at the door and knock If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him and he with me The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered, and sat down with my father on his throne. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Well, those are The letters of Revelation 3, the final three of the seven letters to the seven churches. Now, we talked about this last time in Revelation 2, but just to recap, if these are Seven letters, the seven real churches. There was a church in Sardis, there was a church in Philadelphia, there was a church in Laodicea, the things that it's talking about, that Jesus is talking about, and these letters are real issues that were Very much accurate, active, ongoing issues in those churches. And yet, these seven churches also represent all the kinds of churches that there are in the world. And immediately someone will want to ask, well, which one do you think represents the church in America? And I don't really think that's a fair question to ask because I don't think there is a church in America. I think that there are churches in America. And I think that different churches fall into different categories. So some of the churches in America are very unfaithful. They call themselves churches, but they have become so corrupt So compromised. They're basically spiritually dead. They've embraced the world fully. You know, they they fully celebrate Pride Month. They ordain practicing homosexuals to be clergy, even bishops. They perform same-sex weddings. They are pro-abortion They do not believe that the Bible is the Word of God, but they believe that the Bible is flawed and a human book, and that it's racist, and that it's sexist and that it promotes slavery. And some of them would even go so far as to say that the Bible is a very problematic book that even has evil things in it and an evil influence on the world. This would include the Episcopal Church USA, the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, the United Methodist Church, and the mainline Presbyterian Church, the Presbyterian Church of the United States of America. Now, does that mean that, oh, and the United Church of Christ, these are so-called mainline Protestant churches or old guard Protestant churches. They've largely embraced modernism and postmodernism. They are critical in their approach to scripture. They are critical in their approach to Christianity, and they are largely very embracing of progressive ideology. Even among non-denominational churches, there's a there's a brand of Christianity called progressive Christianity that is pro-Enlightenment. pro-secularism, uh pro-progressivism, and this anti-biblical authority and anti- um gospel really and and and and those kinds of churches are are terrible. They are absolutely compromised. So they could be seen to be like the Nicolaitans or the ones who tolerate the prophetess Jezebel, who's no prophetess at all. These are churches that are ripe for judgment. And they have abandoned the gospel. Within evangelical churches, so-called Bible-believing, gospel-proclaiming evangelical churches, there are some that are very worldly and very lukewarm and some of those would be like Laodicea, where they're very wealthy, uh they're very they're very uh they have millions of dollars in their budget and they put on massive productions. and they seem to have a huge impact and they look like they're being very successful. They they say that they are rich, but really they are very lukewarm. They're very compromised. They don't want to say anything to offend anybody. They're very seeker-sensitive, seeker-driven, they're very entertainment-oriented, they're very practical needs-oriented. And they're not really boldly proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ or clearly teaching the Word of God. But then there are churches that are striving to be faithful. Some of them are blessed. and are doing very well. Some of them are growing and are uh thriving in the right ways by making disciples, by preaching the gospel, by teaching the Word of God systematically. Um and and so there are really good churches in America. I'm very thankful. I'm very thankful to pastor a wonderful church at Forrest Hill. And I don't just say that because I'm the pastor of the church, but we are blessed to have a wonderful community of believers. who love the Lord, who love his word, who want good, solid preaching, who want to hear the gospel, who want to worship Jesus in spirit and in truth, and who want to reach their neighbors and the nations with the gospel of Jesus Christ. They're very thankful for that And there are many other faithful churches in America. They're holding forth the light of Christ. They are doing what is they're called to do. Now they may not be super successful mega churches, they may not be famous, they may not be rich, but they're faithful and they're fruitful, and that's what really matters. And so I think we can actually see the varieties of different kinds of churches described in Revelation 2 and 3 in different kinds of churches that are in America. And so the real question to ask where you are is what kind of church am I in? Is the gospel being preached? Is faithfulness to Jesus Christ upheld above all else? Is the Bible being taught very clearly? Are disciples being made and taught how to follow Jesus? Are we standing faithfully in the face of a world that rejects Christ, are we speaking the truth in love to our neighbors? Are we holding out the light of Christ? Is our lampstand burning brightly? Or are we compromising? Are we lukewarm? Are we complacent? Are we falling asleep? Have we forgotten our first love? Those are the kinds of questions that these letters in Revelation call us to examine our hearts about. And really we're told in this letter to Sardis that if we have a reputation for being alive, but we're really dead, we're really cold inside, we're really far from God, we need to wake up and we need to repent. And if we don't wake up, God will remove our influence. And if we're more like the church in Philadelphia where we might be poor, we might be oppressed, but we keep to the Word of God, you don't deny the name of Christ. you deal with persecution that comes, well then we need to patiently endure. So if we're faithful, we need to patiently endure in being faithful. If we're compromised, we need to Wake up and stop being compromised. If we're getting complacent and falling asleep and becoming dull, we need to repent and return to Christ. We need to hear these words. Hold fast to what we have. Be zealous and repent of our sin. Honor God, and know that God will be faithful to us. One more thing I want to say. And that is that it's very clear from the letters to Philadelphia and Laodicea that earthly wealth, sorry, two more things I want to say. Earthly wealth is no measure of spiritual fruitfulness. You can be big, you can be prosperous, you can be successful, you can have a great big building, you can have lots of programs, you can have lots of money, and be spiritually bankrupt. Or you can be struggling, making disciples, growing little by little faithfully doing what God's called you to do, relatively small, relatively poor, relatively unimpressive in the eyes of the world, and yet be a faithful church. that God says is blessed. There's no way to say by outward human measures of success whether a church is fruitful or faithful to God or not. We have to look at those things spiritually and not materially. And then the last thing I want to say is that this very famous verse, Revelation 3. 20, is Jesus speaking to his church. Behold, I stand at the door knocked. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him and he with me. Jesus is saying this to his church, to his rich, complacent lukewarm church. Sometimes the place where Jesus is least welcome is in a slickly programmed and cleanly executed worship service where we're not really looking to him We're not really wanting to hear from him. We're not even really wanting to meet with him. We just want the program. We want the You know, the show to go on. And so Jesus is saying to the church, hear my voice, open the door. I want to meet with you. And I pray that all of us in our local churches, especially at Forest Hill Church, because that's where I'm called to serve, but I know some of you go to other churches, in our churches we will pray. That we will always be coming to church with one thing in mind above all else, that we want to meet with Jesus. We want to hear from him. We want to worship him. We want to lift up our prayers before him. We want to enjoy fellowship with him at his table. We want Jesus and we will not settle for anything less It's his church. He's our Lord and Savior. He's the passion of our hearts. He's the one we need to be faithful to. Let's pray Father, thank you for the call of the gospel. Thank you for such a Savior as our Lord Jesus Christ. May we, your church, be faithful to shine the light of Christ, to glorify your name. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you for joining me for Revelation 3. Tomorrow we're going back to Jeremiah. Another great chapter on TAF tomorrow, Jeremiah 33. So join me for that. Hope you have a blessed day in the Lord