Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And our 966th day together brings us back to the book of Revelation for Revelation chapter 16. We've got our fresh hot coffee, and we are ready to dig into this wonderful portion of God's word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. You are holy, holy, holy, just and true in all your ways. There is no one like you. You are the one we look to, you are the one we trust in. You are the one we rely on. So we pray that you would teach us from Revelation 16 today and grow us in Christ. We pray in his name Amen. Revelation 16. Then I heard a loud voice from the temple telling the seven angels, Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God. So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth, and harmful and painful sores came upon the people who bore the mark of the beast and worshipped its image. Then the second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became like the blood of a corpse, and every living thing died that was in the sea. The third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of water, and they became blood. And I heard the angel In charge of the waters say, Just are you, O Holy One, who is and who was, for you brought these judgments. For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. It is what they deserve. And I heard the altar saying, Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and just are your judgments. The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was allowed to scorch people with fire. They were scorched by the fierce heat, and they cursed the name of God who had power over these plagues. They did not repent and give him glory. The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and its kingdom was plunged into darkness People gnawed their tongues in anguish and cursed the God of heaven for their pain and sores. They did not repent of their deeds. The sixth bowl, the sixth angel, poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up to prepare the way for the kings from the east And I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs, for they are demonic spirits. Performing signs, who go abroad to the kings of the whole earth to assemble them for battle on the great day of God the Almighty. Behold, I am coming like a thief Blessed is the one who stays awake, keeping his garments on, that he may not go about naked and be seen exposed. And they assembled at the place that in Hebrew is called Armageddon. The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a loud voice came out of the temple from the throne, saying, It is done. And there were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, and a great earthquake, such as there had never been since man was on the earth, so great was that earthquake. The great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell, and God remembered Babylon the Great to make her drain the cup of the wine of the fury of his. And every island fled away, and no mountains were to be found, and great hailstones, about one hundred pounds each, fell from heaven on people, and they cursed God for the plague of the hail. Because the plague was so severe. This is the final cycle of seven judgments. We had seven seals and seven trumpets and now seven bowls. And this is devastating. Now the language here is language taken directly from the plagues of Exodus. Almost all of the judgments have echoes or parallels to the plagues in Egypt. Why is that? Because Egypt is this place of power. That held God's people in bondage and oppressed them and would not let them go, and so God judged Egypt for its harshness toward the people of God. And that's what's happening here. The world hates God's people. The world rejects the truth of God. The world rejects the gospel. And so the people of God Suffer, they long for deliverance, and the Lord sends judgments on the world because of what they have done to his people. And that's very explicitly clear. in this passage, if that's why they are being judged. And the ones who are being judged are those who bear the mark of the beast and worship its image. Now what does that mean? Remember that means that's everybody who's not sealed by God and redeemed by him. The whole world is made up of two types of people, those who are sealed by God and redeemed by Him And those who worship the beast and bear his mark. You're either Christ's or you are the world's. You are either in the kingdom of God or you are in the kingdom of darkness and the kingdom of Satan. You are either worshiping the Lord Jesus Christ or you are worshiping the beast. And he might say, I'm not worshiping anybody. I'm an atheist. I'm a agnostic. I I just do my own thing. I just live for pleasure. Whatever. Well that's that's the beast. Worshiping self, living for pleasure, that's the way of the world. It's a beast. Ephesians 2 lays it out to say you're either dead in your sins and trespasses, and if you are, then you are following the course of this world. the prince of the power of the air who is now at work in the sons of disobedience and you are living for the passions of your flesh and your mind. That's what you are doing. That's beastly behavior. That is rebellion against God. That is belonging to the kingdom of darkness. The only other group there is are those who are redeemed by God, sealed by him. And redeemed by the blood of the Lamb and given new life, new purpose, new hope. Now the world persecutes people in that camp because we have something they don't have. And And they hate it. They hate Jesus, they hate God, they hate those who are who are redeemed by him. And so God takes And puts painful sores upon the people. And then he turns all the waters into blood. This is frustration and futility from the things that they're wanting. They're wanting life They're wanting pleasure, they're wanting abundance, and God is cursing it, God is frustrating it, God is undermining it And in the midst of these judgments, after three, there's six, and then the seventh really is the end, is the final judgment day. So after three of these judgments. The angel in charge of the waters says, Just are you, O Holy One, who is and who was, for you brought these judgments. For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink, it is what they deserve. And then he says, And I heard the altar saying Yes, Lord God be Almighty, true and just are your judgments. What does it mean, the altar? Remember back in Revelation chapter 6. It's the martyrs, those who are killed for their testimony of faith in Jesus Christ. It's the martyrs who are under the altar before the throne of God in Revelation 6 9. And so when the altar says Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and just are your judgments. These are the martyrs, these are the people who have been put to death for their faith in Jesus from Stephen and And eleven of the twelve apostles, all the way up to people who are even being killed now around the world, some under Muslim uh dictatorships, some under communist governments, some by violent street gangs of Hindu radicals in India. There are actually more Christians who are suffering persecution. and violent opposition now than ever have been in the history of the world. We live in relative peace and abundance And we should not complain when the world mocks us, ridicules us, and marginalizes us. That's what the world does, and that's far more mild than many of our brothers and sisters are on. across the world suffer. And so the sun is cursed and it scorches people with fire by the fierce heat. You know, could this be a reference to global warming? I don't know. I don't think that these judgments are meant to be taken literally, but They are meant to be taken seriously. They are real. And so it is the world itself becomes a dangerous place for people to live, hostile to life. Because God is preparing the world for judgment. The fifth is an attack on government The throne of the beast is man-made human government that's in rebellion against God and that hates God, and the government is plunged into darkness. Some of the worst places in the world are places where there is no functioning government. You can think of Haiti, places in South Sudan. Sudan now, um Eritrea is one of those places. So places where there's no real functioning government, you just It's gang violence, it's it's roving thugs, i it's darkness. And and people gnaw their tongues in anguish, but here's what they don't do. When the sun scorches them with heat, they don't repent and give God glory. When the government is dysfunctional and the whole world is plunged into darkness, they don't repent of their deeds. These judgments sent by God, they should be a wake-up call, but people are not repenting. I remember after 9-11, 2001. There was a superficial outpouring of some religiosity, but for the most part We didn't see revival take place in America. We didn't see a massive turning back to God and to Christ. We saw people looking to the government to fix things. We saw a way uh a swell of patriotism, but not necessarily of you know God honoring biblical Christianity. In fact, some of the religious gatherings that took place were intentionally interfaith. Which is idolatrous and false. So in times of catastrophe, when things are bad, catastrophe doesn't cause people to repent. In fact, it causes them to dig in Nowadays it's very common when you see a natural catastrophe or disaster or some other thing which may be a judgment of God upon The world the world responds by, well where was God when this happened? If you say there's a God who's good and who loves us, where was he when this tornado hit, when this hurricane hit? When this fire spread, when this disease broke out. Well, maybe he's the one sending that because you are in rebellion against him and you need to repent. Well, they don't repent. their deeds. They don't give him glory. And so God continues and he's preparing things for this final battle. We'll we'll get to the battle. We get all the way to the end. In the seventh bowl we get all the way to the end, all the way to the second coming of Christ. and the and the judgment day. But then later we'll go back and pick up more about this final battle later in the book. So that's where it ends. This seventh angel pours his bowl and it is done. And it is done means it is done. So this is yet another account of the second coming of Jesus, the final judgment day. The the cup of the wrath of the wine of the fury of God is drained, Babylon the Great is destroyed, and it's all over. And And still people don't repent. So what do we do with Revelation 16? Well, I just think that we should do What the altar is doing, or the martyrs under the altar, we should confess in a world of disease and darkness and plague and violence, lawlessness, Social and moral decay. We see it not too far away from here in Baltimore City. There are places where there's very little proper functioning government and things are just violent and chaotic. We should say Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and just are your judgments. We deserve far worse. The world. The world in rebellion against God. The world denying the truth, suppressing the truth in unrighteousness, refusing to worship King Jesus. Refusing to repent of their deeds of lawlessness, selfishness, idolatry, immorality. The world deserves far worse, and one day the world is going to receive far worse. So if we let our faith be shaken by these things that are happening now, that's not good. We need to say It's what they deserve. The Lord God the Almighty is true and just in his judgments. Now does that mean that we shouldn't care about people we shouldn't have complained about No, no, no, no. That doesn't mean that. And we also shouldn't be arrogant or self-righteous. We should say that we deserve the same. Only we've been rescued by the grace of God. And so we should have compassion, seek to alleviate suffering, and seek to use These things as an opportunity to share the gospel because while the world does not repent, there may be many people who suffer these catastrophes and who actually are sealed by God But who've not yet come to faith in Jesus and when we go and show compassion and show the love of Christ and show the opportunity for mercy in the gospel, there will be some individuals who come out and who who do repent, even though the world doesn't repent. There are still people within the world who are actually among God's people and they repent and they come to faith in Jesus. So we should worship God. We should be humble, we should seek to do good, and we should seek to share the gospel in doing good. That's what we should do in the midst of things that look like Biblical judgment upon the world. Worship God. True and just are your judgments. Be humble. We deserve the same thing, and yet God has had mercy on us in Jesus Christ. Seek to do good. And seek to share the gospel to those who are in need. And in all this, we need to continue to speak the truth: that God is sovereign, that he is in control, he does whatever he pleases in heaven and on earth. earth and we are in sinful rebellion against him and we need to repent. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word, living and active and powerful. Please help us to live faithfully as your children and as your ambassadors in this world. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Revelation 16. Tomorrow we are going back to Ezekiel, picking up with Ezekiel chapter 11. Have a blessed day in the Lord.