Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church on our 960th day together in the Word of God. We come today to Revelation chapter 14. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your love. Thank you for Giving us another opportunity together to be in your word, to be led by your spirit, to be drawn closer to Jesus May we see your will for our lives very clearly. May we see your Son and love him better for the time we spend in your word, under your blessing by your Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. All right, Revelation 14. Then I looked, and behold, on Mount Zion stood the Lamb And with him 144,000 who had his name and his father's name written on their foreheads And I heard a voice from heaven like the roar of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder. The voice I heard was like the sound of harpists playing on their harps And they were singing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and before the elders. No one could learn that song. Except the 144,000 who have been redeemed from the earth. It is these who have not defiled themselves with women for their virgins. It is these who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. These have been redeemed from mankind as first fruits for God and the Lamb, and in their mouths no lie was found, for they are blameless. Then I saw another angel flying directly overhead with an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on the earth, to every nation and tribe and language and people. And he said with a loud voice, fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come and worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea, and the springs of water Another angel, a second, followed, saying, Fallen. Fallen is Babylon the Great. She who made all nations drink the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice: If anyone worships the beast in its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand He also will drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulphur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb And the smoke of their torment goes up for ever and ever, and they have no rest, day or night, these worshippers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name Here is a call for the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus. And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write this Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them. Then I looked and behold, a white cloud, and seated on the cloud one like a son of man with a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand, and another angel came out of his temple, calling with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, put your sickle in and reap for the hour to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is fully ripe. So he, who sat on the cloud, swung his sickle across the earth And the earth was reaped. Then another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle. And another angel came out from the altar, the angel who had authority over the fire, and he called with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle, put in your sickle and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth, for its grapes are ripe. So the angel swung his sickle across the earth and gathered the grape harvest of the earth and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God, and the winepress was trodden outside the city. And the blood flowed from the winepress as high as a horse's bridle for 1600 stadium. That is Revelation 14. It's beautiful and glorious and sobering and powerful. The first thing we see in Revelation 14, and this is a fresh vision, and the cycles of visions. As you see, the lamb and the hundred and forty-four thousand. Now we know who these hundred and forty-four thousand are. They were named for us in chapter 7. They're the sealed of God. 144,000 is twelve times twelve times a thousand. Twelve tribes of Israel, twelve apostles of the Lamb, the complete number of the people of God times a thousand. A thousand is just a really big number. So it's not literally 144,000. Nothing in Revelation is literal in that sense. It is all symbolic, and that doesn't make it less meaningful, it makes it more meaningful. Because God's communicating to us truths that are beyond our ability to comprehend. And so He's giving them to us in these representative ways These are the redeemed. These are the people of God. And they worship God. They worship God loudly. They sing a new song. You know the Psalms always call us to sing a new song unto the Lord. What is the new song that we are called to sing? It's a song of redemption. It's a song of those who've been saved who've been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, by the power of God, redeemed from their sin, redeemed out of the tribulation, redeemed out of a fallen world, redeemed from the wrath of God. Only those who have been so redeemed can sing songs of redemption. Redeemed, how I love to proclaim it, redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. 'Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus. Right? Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. Think of all of these hymns and songs that we sing that we love to sing because they they tell of our salvation. Now what does it mean then in verse 4 that they've not defiled themselves with women for their virgins? Different people in the history of the church have taken different interpretations of this. There have been people who thought this is a literal hundred and forty-four thousand and literal virgins, and so you know this may be part of what's behind the Catholic Church is thinking that if you're ordained to the ministry you don't take a wife. You're supposed to live as a perpetual virgin. That's not what it means. It means that we are faithful to Jesus. And we're not committing spiritual adultery. We're not defiling ourselves by worshiping the things that the world worships by selling ourselves into the world's immorality In other words, if we've been redeemed, it doesn't just allow us to sing a new song, it allows us to live a new life We live differently from the world. We follow the Lamb wherever he goes. We're redeemed from mankind as first fruits for God and for the Lamb. And so we don't lie. Blameless because of the cleansing blood of Jesus. But we are called to live differently, to be honest, to be faithful, to be fruitful. to be holy. We are God's holy people. And that's what that means, that we belong to God. We don't defile ourselves with the prostitution that is worldly idolatry. or corrupt ourselves by being liars, or betray Jesus by following after false gods. Do we do this perfectly? No, we don't. But by grace, by grace, by the power of the Holy Spirit who lives within us We do it truly and sincerely and earnestly from the heart. We want to honor God. We want to live differently. We want to repent of our idolatry. We want to tell the truth in everything. We want to follow Jesus in everything. We are the holy people of God And if you have no hunger for holiness, if you have no heartfelt desire to earnestly please the Lord, if your sin does not grieve you so that you want to turn from it and follow Jesus, Then can you really sing the new song of having been redeemed? Do you really love the Lord? I'm not trying to lay a guilt trip on anyone, but the new song is accompanied by a new life. A new heart issues forth in a new way of living. Then we see these three angels who have three messages. The first is the gospel. Now it's not the gospel the way we normally hear it Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who made heaven and earth to sea in the springs of water. But this is the positive call of the gospel You need to come to God. You need to worship God. You need to fear God and give him glory. He's the one who made heaven and earth. He made you, and he is coming to judge. So worship him. Give him the glory that he is due. And this is a call to every nation, tribe, language, and people. Everybody, everywhere. It doesn't matter what religion you were born into or what tribe you identify with, everyone in all the world was made by the one true God And can come to the one true God to worship him through his son, Jesus Christ. And that is the call of the gospel. Fear God and give him glory. Worship him It's a positive call. It's what, you know, Jesus dying on the cross for our sins to take away our sins is so that we can come to God and worship him. It's to make us worshipers of the one true God. The second angel says, fallen, fallen as Babylon, a message of judgment for the world. The world is judged. The world is condemned. Listen, we had the Olympics a little while ago, and there was a lot of hubbub about the opening ceremonies and all the display of immorality that was there at the opening ceremonies. It shouldn't surprise us. If you really pay attention, every two years, four years, when the world gets together, the largest assembly of nations in the world is for the Summer Olympics every four years. The Winter Olympics are much smaller. But you have almost every nation in the world that gathers together for the Summer Olympics every four years. years and almost every time in the opening ceremonies there's pagan idolatry or sexual immorality or demonic activity of some sort. It's terrible. Because that's what the world is. The world is terrible. It's in rebellion against God. So at the Paris opening ceremony we had sexual immorality, and we had perversion, and we had the celebration of violence. With the Marie Antoinette decapitated, you know, being d being celebrated, celebrating. Hey, we cut off the head of a queen. Yay, aren't we draped? Like Violence and sexual immorality and perversion was celebrated because that's what the world loves. It's not what we are to love. And the world is fallen and will be judged for its gross immorality and perversity. and blasphemy of God. The third angel has a more personal warning of judgment to anyone who worships the beast that has image and receives a mark on his forehead or hand. What does that even mean? It means you identify with the world and its rebellion against God and you're not worshiping God. You're saying, yes, lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life, things of the world, sexual immorality, selfishness. uh materialism, entertainment, that I'm gonna live for that. That's my God. That's my and if that's you, then you're gonna drink the wrath of God Because God has clearly and repeatedly said it's wrong. Worship God. Fear Him. Come to him for cleansing. Be reconciled to him. Love him who is lovely. Worship him who is holy. Follow him who is faithful Or you will suffer eternal judgment. Eternal judgment Because you are beast worshipers, whether you realize it or not, if you are in the world, of the world, following the world, shunning Christ, you are a beast worshiper, and you are going to be subject to judgment Verse 12 tells us here is a call for the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus. The call, the call of God's Spirit for us who belong to Jesus is to endure. To keep trusting in him, to keep following him. There are days when we will be discouraged, discouraged by our own sin, discouraged by the waywardness of the world, but we must persevere by God's grace. And for his glory. Blessed. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed. Even if the world takes our lives because of our testimony in Jesus, we're blessed Because we rest from our labors and we will inherit eternal life. And then comes the end. This is yet another depiction of the second coming of Christ And of the final day of judgment. We've seen it multiple times throughout Revelation. And you know, chapter uh 6 and chapter 11. Repeatedly we're seeing these this cycle. Jesus comes first The Son of Man with a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand, he is the Lord of the harvest. He is the Lord of the judgment. Jesus himself said that when the end comes, the angels will come and harvest the world. At the end comes the harvest, Jesus said. Matthew 13, 30. He'll gather in the believers, and then he will gather up the rest to be judged So you have Jesus and you have three angels. Another angel, another angel, another angel. So verse 15, verse 17, verse eighteen another angel, another angel, another angel. And it gets a little bit confusing about which angel exactly is doing which because they're always referred to as another angel. But just know there are three angels and and the Lord is the Lord Jesus is the Lord of the harvest. What's happening is not at all a mystery. And that is that all the people of the earth are being cut down. When you swing a sickle across the earth To harvest, you're cutting down all of the crop. So all of the people of the earth are cut down and judged And the judgment is severe. Verse 20 is one of those sobering verses that I, again, it's symbolic. It's not meant to be taken literally, but it is just a picture of how serious God takes judgment that when he comes he will judge the world and Um 1600 Sadia is is really, really far. Miles and miles and miles there will be blood because the judgment will be universal and complete. That's what's coming. What do we get from this? We need to sing that new song because we need to be so thankful that because Jesus Because Jesus bore the wrath of God for us, we will not bear the wrath of God that we deserve. Praise God. Sing that new song. Live that new life. Proclaim that gospel. And endure by grace to the end. Let's pray. Father, thank you that we have such a hope in Christ as nothing in this world can shake. We thank you. The world is enraged against you In vile pursuit of things that they know are wrong, that they know are horribly They deny it, they celebrate it, they trumpet it. They will be judged for it. And Lord, we have to confess, we would be right there with them had you not had mercy on us. We would be believing the same false things, doing the same horrible things. Had you not had mercy on us. So we thank you for your mercy. We pray that you would cleanse us That we might live the new life in Christ that we were created to live, faithful and fruitful, and persevering to the end. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Revelation 14. What a powerful book Revelation is. I love it. Such a challenge and such a call to us. We are going to go back to Ezekiel, another great book of the Bible tomorrow. Hope you can join us for that. And I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.