Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 937, and we come now to Revelation chapter 9. As the trumpets are continuing to blow here in Revelation 9, let's pray and ask the Lord's help to understand this part of His Word. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is perfect and true, so helpful to us. But we need your Holy Spirit, your Holy Spirit who inspired this word to Illuminate our minds to understand this word, to receive it by faith, to respond in true obedience and love to you. In Christ, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Revelation chapter 9. And the fifth angel blew his trumpet, and I saw a star fallen from heaven to earth, and he was given the key to the shaft of the bottomless pit. He opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and from the shaft rose smoke, like the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft. Then from the smoke came locusts on the earth. And they were given power like the power of scorpions on the earth They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any green plant or any tree, but only those people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads. They were allowed to torment them for five months, but not to kill them. And their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings someone. And in those days people will seek death and will not find it. They will long to die, but death will flee from them. In appearance the locusts were like horses prepared for battle. On their heads were what looked like crowns of gold, their faces were like human faces, their hair like woman's hair, and their teeth like lion's teeth. They had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the noise of their wings was like the noise of many chariots with horses rushing into battle They have tails and stings like scorpions, and their power to hurt people for five months is in their tails. They have as king over them the angel of the bottomless pit. His name in Hebrew is Abadon, and in Greek he is called Apollyon. The first woe has passed. Behold, two woes are still to come. Then the sixth angel blew his trumpet, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar before God, saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, Release the four angels who are bound at the Great River Euphrates. So the four angels who had been prepared For the hour, the day, the month and the year were released to kill a third of mankind The number of mounted troops was ten thousand times ten thousand. I heard their number, and this is how I saw the horses in my vision and those who rode them. They wore thrustplates, the color of fire, and of sapphire, and of sulphur, and the heads of the horses were like lions' heads, and fire and smoke and sulphur came out of their mouths By these three plagues a third of mankind was killed by fire and smoke and sulphur coming out of their mouths, for the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails. for their tails are like serpents with heads, and by means of them they wound. The rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands, nor give up worshipping demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood. which cannot see or hear or walk, nor did they repent of their murders, or their sorceries, or their sexual immorality, or their thefts. That is Revelation chapter nine. So in Revelation chapter 6, when we see the seals unsealed, the first four seals corresponded to the four horsemen of the apocalypse. Which we said the first one is a conqueror going out to conquer and then war and famine and death. So that is man-made disaster through political conquest by conquering people who create war and famine and death. And then the fifth seal we shifted And we looked at the the martyrs who were before the throne of God under the altar. So there was this this shift. And then the sixth seal really brought on the end, the day of wrath of the Lamb of God, in response to the cry of the martyrs, How long, O Lord. So here we have see a similar pattern in that the first four trumpets are very similar and they're all talking kind of about the same thing but different aspects of it. And last time we were in Revelation a few days ago we talked about how these are ecological disasters. the polluting of the land and the water, the freshwater and the seas. It's the destruction of the environment, both by man-made sin and by what we call natural disasters which are God ordained. Now we come to the fifth trumpet and we again have a shift. But instead of going to martyrs under the altar, which we did with the fifth seal, this fifth trumpet we go In the very opposite direction, we go to the bottomless pit to the demons. These are demons, these locusts, they come out and they harm with their mouths and with their tails. And the idea is that their mouths, right, speak lies and their tails inject poison So these are demonic forces, and we know because they come out of the bottomless pit and The one who is king over them is the angel of the bottomless pit, Apollyon, Satan. So these are demons. Notice also there's a distinction here. All the judgments that we've seen so far, the first four seals and the first four trumpets. They're sort of universal in scope. They affect everyone on earth. War, famine, death, natural disaster, ecological pollution, destruction. That affects everyone on earth. This These demons, they torment only those people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads. And that should take our minds back to chapter 7. when God sealed his people with the seal of God on their foreheads. In Revelation, there are two ways that people are marked. They're either sealed by God on their foreheads, or later we'll hear about the mark of the beast, which is how people are marked if they don't have the seal of God on their foreheads So this is the great distinction that's being made in Revelation between those who are God's people and those who are people of the world, those who are children of God and those who are children of the devil, those who are children of grace, and those who are child Furnivlast So these zemans, they come after unbelievers to torment them. Now five months is how long they're allowed to torment. That's just a symbolic representation that it's it's limited in duration. So demons harass through lies and through poison. They torment. They often drive people insane. They drive people into deep depression. They drive people into intense anxiety. They rob people of the meaning of life because in their lies and in their poison, they they plague the world. Now they're described in here See if we can get to the description. They have what looks like crowns of gold, so they seem to have authority, right? Their faces are like human faces. They seem to have uh humanity to them. Their hair like women's hair, they seem to have beauty, teeth like lions' teeth, they seem to have great ferocity and great power. But really it's all just seeming Satan is a master of disguise. He comes at us. These demons come at us not directly, right? They don't show up as in a in a demonic form. We would reject them. They show up Carrying the pretense of human authority, human wisdom, human beauty, great power And so we we the world, those who don't belong to Jesus, listen to the voice of demons and they believe the things that the demons are bringing against them because they seemingly carry this weight. of authority or this appearance of wisdom or this attractiveness of beauty. And so that's what makes them persuasive. But they are they are tormenting these people. Also notice they come from the bottomless pit, and the king over them is the angel of the bottomless pit. Satan is seen as being in the bottomless pit and from the bottomless pit commanding, sending forth these demons out into the world. This is going to be important as background information when we get to Revelation 20 and we start talking about the millennium. which is coming sometime in the future. But just keep in mind that Satan is the angel of the bottomless pit, and from the bottomless pit come these demons. So the demons are out into the world. influencing Satan is in the bottomless pit. That's the picture that I believe we're being told here. The first woe is past. And the second woe is coming. It's a little bit unclear exactly what that means, but probably, sorry, two more woes are still to come. Probably referring to the bold judgments that are yet to come and then the actual final destruction of um Armageddon that's coming as well. So Demons, they bring disaster. So we have now three kinds of disaster that fall upon the world, all coming from the judgment of God. The first is warfare. It's caused by ambitious rulers who want to conquer others. They bring war and famine and death. The second is ecological, which has sort of two subsets, natural disasters and man-made ecological disasters. And then the third is this demonic activity. Now we see a more intense, more intense, sorry, the two woes still to come is the sixth trumpet. Sorry. messing my notes up here. The two woes to come, the one to come is this sixth trumpet, and then the one after that are the seven bowls, I believe. that's coming later. So the sixth angel blows his trumpet, and you have these four horns of the golden altar before the Lord saying to the sixth angel, Release the four angels. who are bound at the Great River Euphrates. So these are angels that are released from the throne of God. Again, we're seeing the picture that's very central and very key in Revelation, which is that God is sovereign. These activities originate from his throne, the four living creatures around his throne, from the trumpet call of God. God is in control of all of these things. When we see things like wars and death and famine and natural disasters and ecological disasters or demonic deception in the world, we can often just be panicked and think, this is terrible. Like the world seems to be out of control. It is not out of control. The Lord is executing his judgment. He is unfolding his sovereign plan. He is directing these things as horrible as they are because his wrath is being revealed against mankind. And so we see that very clearly here, and that is this four angels. They've been prepared for the hour, the day, the month, the year. I believe that this is referring to the final battle that we're going to get a clearer description of later. Remember there's recapitulation or what we call progressive parallelism. We're showing the same thing from different angles and then in a progressively revealing way. So there is a time appointed for the final confrontation. And there's mounted troops. And they are twice 10,000 times 10,000. That's just an incalculable number. Millions of people. right, who are in this great conflict. And it'll be coming back later when we get to talking about armaged later in Revelation. And they are they're carrying out this this warfare, and this warfare is killing a third of mankind. So this is more than simply conquerors who go out to conquer and take over other lands. This is a great confrontation, a great battle that is basically worldwide and it is involving millions of people and a third of mankind is killed And I think that this is referring to something that is still yet future. I think the first four seals and the first four trumpets Uh and then the fifth seal of the martyrs below beneath the altar and the fifth trumpet of the demons. All of that I think is revealing present-day things, things that are happening during the church age, now, throughout history, and now we see conquerors going out to conquer, whether it's Vladimir Putin taking over Ukraine as kind of a small scale conquering, or whether that was Napoleon trying to take over all of the world in the early 1800s or Adolf Hitler. trying to take over the world in the 1940s. Like we've seen these conquerors going out to conquer and we see natural disasters and we see man-made ecological disasters. We see martyrs being martyred for their faith and then crying out under the altar That's what's happening now. We don't see that, but it's happening now. Demons are now active in the world deceiving. And yet when you get to the sixth, Both with the sixth seal and here with the sixth trumpet. When you get to the sixth, I think you're dealing with things that are yet future. The sixth seal. was very clearly the great day of the wrath of the Lamb. The sixth trumpet, I believe, is this final battle. Which I don't think we necessarily need to see as a literal battle, like some people imagine that there are going to be armies, literal armies in the actual valley of Armageddon, Harmagido. I don't think that's necessarily the way we should read Revelation, that literally, but there is a coming confrontation that is going to be global, that is going to be cosmic, and that is going to be disastrous on a scale that we've never known before in human history. So I think there's again progressive parallelism between these seals and these trumpets. And the sixth is what's yet future. Now, where I want us to close today is at the end of Revelation 9 with this very stunning sobering statement. The rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues, by the fire and smoke and sulfur. They did not repent. They did not give up worshiping demons. and idols of gold or silver or bronze, stone and wood, which cannot see or hear or walk, nor do they repent of their murders or their sorceries or their sexual immorality or their thefts. God sends a cataclysmic disaster involving the whole world in a battle, a warfare, a confrontation of some sort such as the world has never seen. And yet there is no repentance. Why? Ultimately we have to say there's no repentance because they were not sealed. on the forehead by the seal of God. They were not predestined. They were not chosen. They are not children of God. But that doesn't negate human responsibility. On the human responsibility side of things, there's no repentance because they love their idols. They've believed the lies of the demons. They've given in to the deception of the world. And nothing External, nothing other than the grace of God saving them by the Holy Spirit. Nothing external that happens, not warfare of a normal kind, or disease, or famine, or natural disaster, or man-made ecological disasters, or even this great coming conflagration. None of this Is sufficient to shake people out of their idolatries. Only by grace, through the work of the Holy Spirit, that we can be saved. People do not repent. We've seen this happen. Great and terrible tragic things happen. I remember very well when 9-11 happened. There were in some parts of the country Christians who sought the Lord and who prayed. But in other parts of the country very much so we had just a doubling down of idolatry. People who Wanted the government to solve the problems. When the stock market crashed in 2008, I remember people getting very angry at the government, demanding that the government fix things rather than seeking the Lord rather than repenting of their materialism. So that's the sobering reality is that God is in control of all of these things. His wrath is aroused against the rebelliousness of mankind. But mankind still rebels. The world is still fallen until Jesus comes again. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you are the sovereign Lord over all human history and over current events. We've lived through some crazy things in these past couple of weeks. You are sovereign over it all. You know. You hold the world in your hands. You direct. Even the disastrous things, you direct them from your throne for your purposes to bring judgment upon the world. Help us to proclaim your truth. That through the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit may be pleased to save those who belong to you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well that is Revelation 9. Sorry if my thoughts were a little scattered. I had a hard time following along with some of my other notes. So Sorry about that. Uh tomorrow we'll be back in Jeremiah the prophet, so I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.