Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And on this 978th day of our three-year journey through the Word of God, we come to Revelation 19. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. What a powerful word you have given to us. Beautiful, sweeping, majestic, insightful, challenging, comforting. We need your word. We need every part of your word. And we need your word every day of our lives. It is our daily bread through which we feed upon Christ, our Savior. Would you please feed our souls with Jesus now as we spend time in Revelation 19? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Revelation nineteen. After this I heard what seemed to be The loud voice of a great multitude in heaven crying out, Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God. for his judgments are true and just, for he has judged the great prostitute, who corrupted the earth with her immorality, and has avenged on her the blood of his servants Once more they cried out, Hallelujah! The smoke from her goes up forever and ever. And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God. who was seated on the throne saying, Amen. Hallelujah. And from the throne came a voice saying, Praise our God, all you his servants, you who fear him, small and great. Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters and like the sound of many peals of thunder, crying out Hallelujah! For the Lord our God the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come. And his bride has made herself ready. It was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure, for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. And the angel said to me, Write this: Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true words of God. Then I fell down at his feet to worship him, but he said to me, You must not do that, for I am a fellow servant with you, and your brothers who hold to the testimony of Jesus worship God. God, for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. Then I saw heaven opened and behold a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems. And he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the Word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will Tread down the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. On his robe and on his thigh, he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords Then I saw an angel standing in the sun, and with a loud voice he called to all the birds that fly directly overhead, come! Gather for the great supper of God to eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men. the flesh of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, both small and great. And I saw the beast And the kings of the earth, with their armies, gathered to make war against him who was sitting on the on the horse and against his army. And the beast was captured. and with it the false prophet, who in its presence had done the signs by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast, and those who worshipped its image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire. Fire that burns with sulfur, and the rest were slain by the sword that came from the mouth of him who was sitting on the throne Sorry, sitting on the horse and the birds, all the birds were gorged with their flesh. This is Revelation 19. What a powerful, powerful word. This is serious, stunning. vision of judgment and and rejoicing. You see, the Bible teaches us That we as God's people are saved by our mighty God through judgment. There's redemption by covenant promise. fulfilled in Christ, and that redemption comes through judgment. So when Adam and Eve were spared. Their lives were spared. There was judgment put on animals because they were clothed with those animal skins. When Abel's sacrifice was accepted by God, it was because the judgment was poured out on the sacrifice that he had offered, the blood sacrifice he offered But then even more clearly coming into view, when Noah and his family were saved from the corrupt generation that had spread violence and wickedness all over the earth. They were saved through judgment as God drowned the whole world in a flood and kept them in the ark. When the Israelites came out of Egypt and God redeemed them, He redeemed them through the Red Sea, which then was the instrument of judgment which judged all of the Egyptian army. We are redeemed by covenant kept in Jesus through the judgment that was poured out on him at the cross. And when Jesus comes again, we will be caught up to meet him. We will feast at the marriage supper of the Lamb. But we will also see the judgment. again and every eye will see him and every knee will bow. And when he does come it will be salvation for us, final salvation from the presence and and and the plague of sin and from the curse on the creation and will be brought into a wonderful new heavens and a new earth which we'll see in several days when we get to Revelation twenty one. But through that is judgment. Judgment that falls on the world world. And this is because sin and salvation reveal the character of God, the holy justice of God, and the redeeming love of God. And they're both on display. When God saves and redeems his people through the judgment that he brings upon those who reject him. That's the big picture of what we're seeing here in Revelation 19. But first, we hear the voices of God's people, the countless choir of the redeemed. We hear them repeatedly. They cry out in verse 1 as the loud voice of a great multitude. Hallelujah. Salvation and glory and power belong to our God, for his judgments are true and just, for he has judged the great prostitute, who corrupted the earth with her immorality, and has avenged on her the blood of his Servants. The Great Prostitute, Babylon the Harlot, Rome and its cultural and economic prowess, which represents all of the world's economic and cultural systems that prosper materially even as they oppress God's people, they're it's going to be judged when Jesus comes again. It's going to be judged. By the Lord, to whom alone, to whom alone belongs salvation and glory and power, and whose judgments alone are true and just. We are not called by God to win the culture war and put the culture in its place and reclaim America for Christ. That is not a call of Scripture It's not. We are called to preach the gospel. We are called to demonstrate through our lives the character of God. We are called to make disciples of Jesus out of every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. We're called to send the gospel to the ends of the earth. Jesus has promised to build his church. But his church, until he comes again, is a suffering church that lives in enemy territory, that suffers persecution. from the beast and the false prophet and Babylon the harlot. No doubt. And so Babylon the harlot's the first one to be judged, and then the beast and the false prophet are judged by Jesus when he returns. Not in some sort of triumphalism of a culture warrior saying, We finally defeated you at the ballot box and now we're going to show you who's boss. That is not biblical Christianity. That is not New Testament Christianity vision of the church. It's just not. It may make us feel good. It may make us feel like, hey, we're going to win this thing. But Jesus is going to win this thing. We need to wait for Him and look to Him and not take things into our own hands. Romans 12 is very, very clear in his Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him something to drink. Anyway, moving on. Hallelujah. The smoke from her goes up forever and ever. King Jesus judges the wicked and corrupt cultural and economic systems of our world that thrive on human trafficking, on abortion. on pornography, on sexual immorality, on drugs, on wars, on persecuting God's people, there this system, this world is going to be judged. when Jesus comes again. And the 24 elders and the four living creatures, those who are near us to the throne of God, they echo the cry of God's people. Amen. Hallelujah. Praise our God, you his servants, you who fear him, small and great, praise him, because he comes to our rescue. He delivers us. When Israelites were coming out of Egypt, God didn't tell them, okay, turn back and fight the Egyptian army. No. He said, You follow me. You go the way that I lead you, and I will drown the Egyptian army Because God overcomes. When Joshua led the people of Israel into the promised land, they did have battles to fight. But the first battle was to learn that the Lord is the sovereign ruler and the warrior and the deliverer. So they just marched around Jericho. The battle plan was marching and praising and marching and praising, and God brought the victory. Then we have another cry out. From a voice of a great multitude, in verse 6, like the roar of many waters, like the sound of mighty peals of thunder. Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns. Let us rejoice and exalt and give Him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come. So we see this uh this uh quadruple hallelujah, fourfold hallelujah in verse one in verse three, from the uh elders and living creatures in verse four, and then from the great multitude again in verse 6. God is to be praised. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord for his judgment is good. And this last hallelujah introduces this great and wonderful event. to which we are looking forward and to which we have been invited and we are blessed. We are blessed to have been invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Verse 9. That is when Christ will take his bride to himself. He will welcome us in, he will gather us in. We will sit with him. We will sup with him. We will enjoy table fellowship with the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. So we are called to worship God. Notice here that we are warned not to worship anyone less than God The angel who was showing John all these things, John so overwhelmed by the power and scope of it all. I mean, this is I I don't think we can even begin to fathom what John experienced when he saw and heard all these things. But at this point he's so overwhelmed that he bows down to worship this angel. And the angel says, You must not do that. I'm a fellow servant with you. We should not give worship to anyone but God, anyone who worships saints. or angels or Mary, whether they call it veneration, right, or special honor, it's worship when you bow down and you light a candle and you say a prayer, that is bowing and praying are acts of worship and They should be reserved for God alone. Then Jesus comes, revealed out of heaven, coming to judge the earth Look at the names for Jesus. He is faithful and true. He is the Word of God. He is the King of Kings. And he is the Lord. of Lords. He also has a name written that no one knows but himself. But the names by which he is revealed, you see, there are secret things of the Lord, there are things that God has not revealed. And then there are the things revealed. And we are to worship God for the things that He's revealed. Our Lord Jesus Christ is faithful and true. It is in righteousness that he judges and makes worship. He's not coming as a brutal, uh vindictive, evil, uh sinister tyrant. He's coming as a faithful and true, righteous judge. He is giving people what they deserve, what they have even asked for, by persecuting God's people, by cursing God. By refusing to believe in what God has revealed about Himself, this is what people have asked for, what they have sought. Confrontation with Jesus. Who they that they say, we will not have you rule over us. We will not confess you as Lord and Savior. And so Jesus comes And he comes in power. He comes in power and in fury and in mighty wrath. as King of Kings and Lord of Lords who wins who wears many diadems, many crowns, because he's king of all. There is not a kingship, there is not an authority, there is not a position that does not ultimately belong to Jesus. Everything. Every knee will bow and every tongue confess, because he is king of all the kings and lord of all the lords, the boss of all the bosses. He's head over all headship and authority And so he comes and he judges and he judges. His judgment is completely universal on everyone who is not sealed. We're going to go all the way back to chapter 7 and realize You're either sealed with the seal of God on your forehead, marked out as belonging to Him, chosen, redeemed, or you bear the image of the beast. And so all of those who don't belong to Jesus, all of those who have not bowed the knee now and said, Jesus is Lord, I confess you and I will follow you, all those who deny him the glory that he is due now, They will glorify Jesus on the day of his coming. But they will do so in anger, in resentment, in rebellion. And they will They will be judged. Their judgment, the the final judgment of the world, awaits in chapter 20, which we'll get to in a few days. But now we see The beast and the false prophet. The beast, remember that's the political leadership of tyrants and oppressors and dictators and power-hungry men who seek their own glory. And false prophets, the false religions that prop up. those false rulers. You can think of a country like Iran with its Ayatollah who is the chief religious leader of the of the country and he props up a system of totalitarianism where you could think of the way that communism propped up brutal dictatorships or Nazism propped up Hitler and fascism propped up Mussolini Or, you know, a misguided system of national glory propped up Napoleon. All these kinds of rulers, they're always propped up by an ideology, and that ideology gives gives the ruler sort of a divine presence. In in the days of Rome when this is written, it was said that the emperor was a god in human flesh and that he was to be worshipped by everybody in his kingdom, and that's really the reason why Christians were persecuted, because they would not worship the emperor. They would only worship Jesus. as Lord. The Emperor wasn't the supreme ruler, Jesus was. And that's what this the the decision that we must make is always to say, there's one to whom belongs greatness. There is one to whom we give our allegiance. There is one to whom we give honor and glory, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. Not any nation of men, not any ruler of men. We give our allegiance, we give glory and honor to him who sits on the throne, who laid down his life for us and who's coming again to judge. So what's the call for us? The call for us is to persevere in faith, trust in the one who is faithful and true, know that he is King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and get ready for that marriage supper of the Lamb. Because that day is coming. Until that day, we need to tell as many people as we can about Jesus. We need to keep worshiping him together with his people. And we need to trust him to handle the evil that is in the world and not not give into the temptation to take matters into our own hands and try to make things right by our own plans and purposes because they have not been blessed. But Jesus will come again and will make things right. in the end. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are good. Your love endures forever. Lord Jesus, you are King of kings and Lord of Lords. Crowned with many crowns, you have all authority in heaven and on earth given to you. And it is in that authority that we are called to make disciples. to proclaim your gospel and to be used by you to build your church among every tribe, tongue, people, and nation Make us faithful to that calling, to the glory of your name. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that is Revelation 19. Tomorrow back to Ezekiel for Ezekiel 19. I hope you'll join me for that, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.