Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbytery. Church. Day 987 brings us to Revelation 21, one of my favorite chapters in all of Scripture, a passage that God used in my life. Mightily when I was a boy in strengthening my faith and drawing my heart after Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for your faithfulness through every season of life. Thank you for your faithfulness day by day to meet with us and teach us from your word and build us up by your spirit. May we glorify and enjoy you more richly in your Son Jesus Christ for the time we spend in your word today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Revelation twenty one. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem. Coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God Himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning. Nor crying nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new Also he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning. beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment. The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars Their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulphur, which is the second death. Then came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues, and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, having the glory of God. Its radiance, like a most rare jewel, like a jasper clear as crystal. It had a great high wall with twelve gates and on uh and at the gates twelve angels, and on the gates The names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed. On the east, three gates. On the north, three gates, on the south, three gates, on the west, three gates, and the wall of the city had twelve foundations. nations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. And the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city. and its gates and walls. The city lies four square, its length the same as its width. And he measured the city with his rod, twelve thousand stadia Its length and width and height are equal. He also measured its wall, 144 cubits by human measurement, which is also an angel's measurement. The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold, like clear glass. The foundation of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewelry The first is Jasper, the second sapphire, the third Agate, the fourth emerald, the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysalite, the The eighth barrel, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysophrase, the eleventh jason, the twelfth amethyst, and the twelve gates were twelve pearls. Each of the gates made of a single pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass. And I saw no temple in the city, for the temple is the Lord God, the Almighty And the lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be There will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and honor of the nations, but nothing unclean will ever enter it nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. That is Revelation 21, a wonderful, powerful chapter of God's holy word. This next to last chapter. And chapter 22 is short and really kind of wraps things up. This is the last. large chapter full twenty-one and twenty-two are kind of almost one story. We'll get to twenty-two in a couple of days. But it's the end, right? It's the end. It's the destination. It's the final consummation. All has been done. It is finished. It is Done and Jesus comes, judges the nations, and then his bride is received. So there's a couple of things we need to keep in mind for this passage. And that is the Holy City is the bride of the Lamb. That is very clearly told to us, first of all, as we're told that the Holy City is New Jerusalem Is coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Right. But then when we go down to the second section in verse nine the angel says to John Come I will show you the bride the wife of the Lamb and he carried me away in the city to a high mountain and showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming back to the This is language that echoes what we saw in Revelation 5, when John was told, Behold the Lion of the tribe of Judah who has conquered, and he Turned and saw a lamb. He's told, Come, I'll show you the bride, the wife of the lamb, and he's carried away to see a city. The holy city is the bride. It is a picture. It is a vision, symbolic representative of the glorified church, the glorified people of God, the glorified Jerusalem, Israel, the new New Jerusalem, the holy city, the temple that God is building. It's a temple city bride. It is the people of God in all So to think rightly about Revelation 21, it's not that we're going to live in the New Jerusalem on the new heavens and the new earth or in the new heavens and the new earth. We're going to live as the new Jerusalem in the new heavens and the new earth. So the place where we're going to be is the new heavens and the new earth, but what we are going to be is the glorified So don't think of a physical city, think of it as being a depiction of of our our glory that awaits us in the glorification of the saints at the remote. But all has been done. First earth had passed away. The sea is no more. What does that mean? The sea was always an image of danger, of mystery, of uncontrollable things that might take you human life very quickly. All that's gone. No more danger, no more fear. Other things that are gone, uh in verse four we're told he wipes away from their uh from their eyes every tear. Death shall be no more, neither mourning nor crying. crying nor pain. The fall, the curse on creation and everything that comes along with it is completely removed. There's no more sin, there's nothing unclean. in the Holy City. There's no more pain caused by sin and by the curse on creation. There's no more crying. There's no more death. There's no more mourning. So there is a perfect glory that we will be and that we will enter into and live in. And lest we think it's too good to be true, the one who was seated on the throne, the Lord Jesus Christ, says, write this down. In verse 7 five, for these words are trustworthy and true. In the end, we are told the dwelling place of God is with me Man. He will dwell with them and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. So what was lost in the beginning of God's story with his people, what was lost was that fellowship with God. That intimacy with God, that communion with God, it was lost. And it was replaced by a profound alienation, separation, expulsion. Because our sins separate us from God. And so in the end, with all sin having been taken care of, with the gospel having reached everyone it's going to reach, with the full number of God's people brought in, when the holy city has fallen Finished being built, when the Holy Temple has finished being built, with the last redeemed saint of God brought in, Jesus comes again. Brings all things to consummation, wipes out all sin, wipes out all evil, judges all the enemies of God, and God is with us forever. God is with man, he will dwell with them. They will be his people. God himself will be This is the fulfillment of the core covenant promise in Scripture. It's repeated throughout the Old Testament I will be with you, I will be your God, you will be my people. You will be my holy people. I will be your God. And Jesus comes as Emmanuel to fulfill all the promises of God. All the promises of God, 2 Corinthians 1. twenty find their yes in him because he is Emmanuel, God with us, and he is Jesus who saves us from our sins. By removing the barrier of sin, he reconciles us to God, and this is the consummation of that, where it's not just by faith, it's not just in anticipation, but it's in sight, in reality, in resurrected and glorified Bodies. We are with the Lord in this wonderful new creation, the new heavens and the new earth that are beyond imagination. We're not given a picture of the We're not. We get some glimpses of it in Old Testament prophets like Isaiah when Isaiah says the the lion will lie down with the lamb. And uh the child will play over the the Oder's den and the cobra and the bear will eat straw like an ox. This this this is the kind of language where there's Peace, there's tranquility. It's a creation. It's God's redeemed and restored creation. Romans 8 talks about it, how creation groans and eager yearning. for the revealing of the sons of God because the creation then will be liberated from its bondage to decay and will enter into the glory. Of the children of God. So it's a glorified creation and all things redeemed and glorified. The people of God The people of God, those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Those who Have conquered by their testimony, by the blood of the Lamb and the Word of their testimony, by holding fast to their faith in Jesus Christ that's given to them by the grace of God, the grace to persevere. enter into and become the holy city in the new creation. But all those who are in rebellion against God were reminded again here in Revelation twenty one. Those who are in rebellion, the cowardly, the faithless, those without faith, the detestable, the murderers, the sexually immoral, the sorcerers, idolaters, all liars, they're in the lake of fire. They're in the second death. But those who share in the first resurrection, which we learned about in Revelation 20, three days ago, those who share in the first resurrection, who have the resurrected life From Jesus in them, they will not suffer the second death. They will enter into life upon life. And so we have this picture of the Holy City. the people of God, the glorified people of God. And notice the twelves and all the multiples of twelve. Twelve is the number of the people of God. There are twelve tribes of Israel, twelve apostles of the Lamb. twenty-four elders, and everything is brought together here in this holy city. Twelve gates, on which are written the twelve names of the twelve tribes of Israel, twelve foundation stones, on which which are written the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. The city itself is twelve thousand stadia per side a cube. Now we could say that's about fifteen hundred miles, but that's missing the point. It's twelve thousand. Twelve being the people of God times a thousand, which is a very large number, and stadia, which is the longest of of the distances that we were s of standard measure back in the ancient times. So twelve thousand stadia is a way of saying just beyond number almost. What would be the capacity of a city? 12,000 stadia. How large would a temple be? Because it's a cube like the old temple in the Old Testament was a cube. We are the living temple according to Ephesians 2. and 1 Peter 2 were being built up as a living temple, as living stones, and a living temple to the glory of God. What's the capacity of a city? That's twelve thousand stadia per side cubed. You know you can take the entire population of the Earth right now, seven and a half billion people, whatever it is. You can take the entire population of Earth right now and we could all fit side by side in the state of Rhode Island. If you wanted to have a little bit more breathing room and stretch out your arms a little bit, you could fit everybody in Connecticut. How big? What's the capacity? This is a multitude no one can number. That's how Revelation refers to it in other places. The redeemed people of God. You see, in this life, we feel like a small minority. We feel like the cultures against us were outnumbered. You know, the woo the road is wide and the way is broad that leads to destruction. The way is narrow that leads to life. Few there are who find it. And yet God's faithfulness, generation after generation after generation, in the end Will be a vast multitude that no one can number, and a glorious multitude, transparent gold, solid Pearl gates, precious stone foundation. These are pictures of how glorious we will be. C. S. Lewis and his wonderful Sermon, The Weight of Glory, said that if you saw a believer, the way that that believer will be in the age to come, you would be tempted to fall down and worship them. Because we will be so glorious. You've never met a mere human being. We are all going to be eternal creatures. We are eternal creatures. We're going to be glorified. Eternal creatures. Don't know what that's gonna look like. Scripture doesn't really tell us. It's giving us symbolic language because we're not supposed to really picture it. We're supposed to just launch for it and believe it. There's no temple in the city. We don't go to church in the new heavens and the new earth because it is church. It's the presence of God. We're supposed to gather together on the Lord's Day morning to enter into the presence of God and to worship Him together, but we will be in the presence of God, worshiping, glorifying, enjoying Him. forever. And the nations come in at the end. The nations are there because every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. Remember from Revelation 5. The Lamb is worthy to open the scroll because he died, and by his blood he ransomed a people for God from every Every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, and have made us to be a kingdom, priests to serve the living God. That's Revelation 5. five, nine, and ten. We are given the privilege so that every nation is represented. Every nation is present. The kings of the earth will bring their glory into it. Not saying that every king is going to end up in heaven because they're above believer know only those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. But we will see who who God's kings of each nation are. The divine royalty, the sons of God, the princes in the kingdom of God and princesses in the kingdom of God Will come in and they will bring the glory of the nations. I think that means that not only will the natural creation be redeemed, but man-made things, the glorious accomplishments of creation that have been given to us by God, science and technology and discovery. We were made by God for these things. That's part of the creation mandate, not part of the fall. In the creation mandate, the Lord said, be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it and rule over it. Well that requires the development of science and technology. And now of course it's all corrupted by the fall in the way that we choose to use these things, but they're good gifts of God in and of themselves. themselves and so all of that will be brought into the new creation. What's that going to look like? I don't know. But I think it's going to be a new creation where we as glorified image bearers of God God will enjoy the things that have been developed over time and will continue to develop them and to explore them and to do good to the glory of God. You see, we're now supposed to be doing that. All science should be done to the glory of God. All technology should be used to the glory of God. All knowledge should be acquired to the glory of God. But it's not that way because of the fall. But it will be that way in the new heavens. in the new earth because of the grace of God. Man, I'm excited about what's coming. I'm so excited about what's coming. Jesus is coming again and he will bring us into this glorious new creation as glorious new creation ourselves. But not until every tribe, tongue, people, and nation has been reached. One of the things that bothers me is that we're more concerned As evangelical Christians in America today, we spend far more time, money, and energy on trying to to preserve, protect this corrupt culture that hates God, than we do in sending forth the gospel to the the nations to the glory of God to see the return of Christ when everyone's been brought in to the kingdom. When every tribe is heard, when every tongue proclaims his name, when the people of God are complete, Jesus will come again. So evangelism and world missions, fulfilling the Great Commission. Should be the very core heartbeat of our lives as the people of God. America is just one civilization among many. It'll end up on the dustbin of history. But Americans who belong to the glory of God, who belong in the Lamb's Book of Life, they we will bring the best of America in to the new creation, the best of Kenya, the best of Uganda, the best of of Indonesia, the best of China, the best of Japan, the best of Brazil. It will all come as the people of God are gathered. into the new creation. That's where we're going. We need to fix our eyes there. We need to pray and press on toward that prize. There's nothing in this world that can compare to it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are so good. Your promises to us are so precious. The future you have prepared for us is beyond our imagination. No eye has seen, no ear has heard, nor has it entered into the imagination. imagination of man, what the Lord has in store for those who trust him. Help us to trust you and to press one toward that goal. We pray this in Jesus' name Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Revelation 21. What a great, wonderful chapter. Back to Ezekiel tomorrow. We'll pick up with Ezekiel 25. I hope you join me Do you have a blessed day in the Lord?