Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and we are here for day 904. of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we are beginning the book of Revelation. By the way, just a little bit of technical announcement. If you hear some thumping or pounding in the background One of my children is outside practicing basketball in the driveway and um I believe that this child is practicing rebounding by throwing the ball up onto the roof and letting it roll off. and then practicing grabbing it high pointing the ball, which I commend as someone who helps coach basketball, but may make for some distracting background noises here on the devotional. So That's what you get. Summertime, kids are off school, and uh it's a good day for basketball practice, somebody thinks. So Anyway, uh let's pray. We'll get into Revelation. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and your faithfulness. Thank you that you are always with us. Thank you that you never leave us or forsake us. Thank you that you you bless us each day with your word. Your word is true. Your word is great. You are great. Thank you for Revelation, this new book that we can study together. Thank you for its beauty and power and truth. Help us to overcome the confusion. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. And child has come inside, so maybe we won't have to deal with the thumping noises. Alright, Revelation chapter one The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, who bore witness to the Word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near. John, to the seven churches that are in Asia, grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come and from the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings on earth. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood, and has made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Amen. Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will wail on account of him, even so Amen. I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty. I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation and the kingdom and the patient endurance that are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet saying, Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamum, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and on turning I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the midst of the lampstands White wool like snow, his eyes were like a flame of fire, and his feet were like burnished bronze refined in a furnace and his voice was like the roar of many waters. In his right hand he held seven stars. From his mouth came a sharp two edged sword, and his face was like the sun shining in full strength When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, Fear not, I am the first and the last and the living one. I died, and behold, I am alive for evermore, and I have the key. Write therefore the things that you have seen, those that are, and those that are to take place after this As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand and the seven golden lampstands, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches. And the seven lampstands are the seven churches. That is Revelation chapter one, and so begins. The last and powerful, unusual, difficult, intriguing, disgust, talked-about book in the Bible, Revelation. It is the revelation of Jesus Christ. It's a word that transliterates from Greek to English. In other words, if we just take the Greek word and bring it into English, English it's called apocalypse. The apocalypse of Jesus Christ. We in in modern English English, we use the word apocalypse to mean like the end of the world, like the zombie apocalypse or the coming, you know, whatever. Apocalypse. Apocalypse. Apocalypse doesn't mean that. It doesn't mean something disastrous that's coming in the future. Final battle. That has to do with the end. There's another word, parousia, the second coming, the reveal of the the the return, the appearing of Jesus Christ. But this word apocalypse really in the original Greek and in Revelation here, it isn't referring to the end of all things. things. It's re it's more like a peeling back of a curtain. It's an unveiling, a seeing into the eternal realm, the spiritual realities that are behind the physical realities we live in, kind of getting a peek behind the curtains of heaven. Now, the story that is told is obviously leading up to and including the second coming of Jesus and the final judgment of all things and the end of this current age and order and the inauguration and bringing in of the new heavens and the new earth. All of that is contained in this book, but this book is it's misunderstood if we understand it as just a book that is about the end of the world. It's about so much more than that. It's about what is happening in the world. Jesus Christ is being revealed to us. And God gave this revelation to John. He identifies himself in verse 4, John to the seven churches. God gave this revelation of Jesus Christ to show his servants the things that must soon take place. So some of those things are going to happen really quickly after John writes this letter. Some of them are going to happen in the ages to come. Some of them are already starting to unfold and are already current realities that God's people are dealing with so we'll get more into those things later as we get into this book. But um it's given to John. John is the witness. John is the last of the apostles By the time he writes Revelation, he's the last living apostle, and all of the other apostles have gone on to be with the Lord. They've been killed uh for their faith, for their testimony. Years and years prior to this. And so by the time John writes, he's the last living testimony. There's a special blessing at the beginning of Revelation and then a curse at the end of Revelation. that's attached to this book. And I think really by expansion to all of Scripture, because this is the final book of the Bible, has a very much a definitive finality to it, of this is the end of the revelation. God is giving to the world and to his people in particular. But the blessing at the beginning here in verse 3, blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear and who keep. what is written in it, for the time is near. And at the very end, as we'll see when we get there, in Revelation 22, there's a curse pronounced. Anyone who takes away from the words of this prophecy, or anyone who adds to the words of this prophecy is cursed. So this is a special book. It's unique in the New Testament in that it is classified as apocalyptic literature. It's it's a book of prophecy, but prophecy as a revealing. And an unveiling, a a a foretelling and a forth telling, telling forth what is going on in heaven and what spiritual realities are like, and a foretelling of what's coming So, this is the New Testament prophetic book. In so many ways, as we'll see in our coming studies, so much of what is in Revelation ties into the Old Testament prophets So, in many ways, the book of Hebrews is the New Testament's commentary, explanation, unpacking of the Old Testament law, the Old Testament ceremonial law, the Old Testament worship. Matthew is an unveiling and a revealing and an uh commentary, discussion, teaching of the Old Testament covenantal promises to to Abraham and to David and the coming of the kingdom. John is really giving us a commentary and an explanation of how Jesus is the fulfilled fulfillment of Israel in himself and how he is all that Israel was supposed to be. So revelation joins these other books in being a really a commentary on the Old Testament, an unpacking of the Old Testament, particularly a focus on the Old Testament prophets. So the books of Daniel and Ezekiel and Isaiah and Jeremiah and Zechariah and Hagi and Malachi, all these Old Testament prophets they find uh their their explanation, their fulfillment, their unpacking here in Revelation. So John begins by greeting the churches with grace and peace. From him who is, and who was, and who is to come, and from the seven spirits. That's a way of talking about the Holy Spirit, the sevenfold spirit. Seven being the number of divine completions, seven also being the number of churches in Asia that he's writing to. These are symbolic, richly significant. Revelation is a book that's full of richly significant numbers and imagery. One of the things we need to get clear in our minds at the beginning here is because I say something is symbolic doesn't mean not real. We have a a really flat, materialistic, overly scientific uh mindset in the West where we if we hear that something is symbolic or it is a spiritual sign, we in our really rationalistic post-Enlightenment minds, we classify that as not real, sort of in the fantasy realm. That's not what we're talking about here at all. Things that are symbolic, things that are s are spiritually significant, they're more real, actually. And so seven is a richly powerful number, seven days of creation, the sevenfold spirit of God, seven is the number of of God's work divinely communicated. Complete seven churches that in this book represent really all churches throughout all of time and history and the world. All of these things are being unfolded. So who's who's sending this message? Well, God, the one who loves us and has freed us, the one who was and who is and who is to come, the seven spirits, the Holy Spirit, and Jesus Christ, the firstborn witness, uh sorry, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, the ruler of the kings on This is a Trinitarian greeting. Greetings from God the Father and God the Holy Spirit and God the Son. And then there's just praise to God offered up Before getting any further, uh John just offers up praise to the one who loves us and has freed us by his blood, has made us a kingdom, priest to his God, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen Men behold, he's coming with the clouds, every eye will see him, and those who pierced him, and all tribes of the earth will wail on account of him, even so, amen. It's a wonderful Christ-centered, powerful picture of Christ and who he is. He's the one who loves us. He's the one who's freed us. He's the one who rules and reigns over all things forever. and he is the one who is coming. Make no mistake about it. The main central point of revelation is to reveal Jesus Christ to us So many people get caught up in little side studies of what what exactly is the timeline and what exactly does this symbol mean and does that symbol mean and how does this connect with this thing happening and then news and this country in the Middle East and all this kind of stuff. And that is not the central point. Distraction Is one of Satan's major tools to take our eyes off of what matters most. What matters most is Jesus Christ. He is the one who matters most. He is the one who is centrally being revealed to us in this book. And he is the one who has loved us and has freed us and who reigns over all things and who is coming with the clouds, and he is the one. The Lord God speaks and declares, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the one who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty. By the way. Really interesting little fact about language. Yahweh, how God reveals himself in the Old Testament to covenant name that's that's translated in your English Bible as all caps l-O-R-D. So when you read in the Old Testament and you read in all capitals L-O-R-D, it's a translation of this Hebrew word that we actually don't even know how to pronounce I say Yahweh because it That's probably the closest that we know. Yeah, Yehowa, Yehwa, Yahweh. We don't know exactly how it was pronounced. We just don't know because in the original manuscripts you have these four consonants they come over in English as YHWH But then they have vowel markings on them that are borrowed from the Hebrew word Adonai, which is translated as Lord or Master or King or Ruler Adonai, because it was an indication that when the scribes were to read scripture out loud, they were to say Adonai instead of saying the sacred name, Yahweh. However it's pronounced. And so they would say Ad or Nai. What's the importance of this? Well Yahweh itself is a variation of I am, but it is timeless and In such a way as can almost be understood as I am who I was and evermore will be. So in Revelation, when we have the one who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty, it's John's way Of expressing the meaning of the covenant name, Yahweh, Jehovah. The one who is and who was and who is to come, the great I am, who I was and evermore will be, that name of God, that sacred name of God. is expressed in this way in Revelation. And it's important because the first time we see It is definitely a reference to God the Father, grace to you and peace from him who is, and who was and who is to come. And the Spirits and Jesus Christ. That's God the Father, God the Holy Spirit, God the Son. But then the second time here is I am the Alpha and the Omega says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty. But then later when Jesus shows up and Jesus speaks, John falls down at his feet as though dead. And Jesus reveals himself to John in these words, I am the first and the last and the living one I died and behold I am alive forevermore. I am Alpha and Omega and the living one. In other words I am who I was and will be and currently am, the one who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty. It's another way of saying the same thing. So this is a very strong emphasis of the full divinity of Christ, the full eternality of Christ, the full Godhead of the Lord Jesus Christ. John was one of Christ's closest followers. He was one of the three in the inner circle. He was the one who identifies himself in His gospel as the one whom Jesus loved. He was the one who at the Last Supper was leaning back on the breast of Jesus. He had a close personal relationship with Jesus because he was the youngest disciple. Jesus was taking him under his wing. He's the one that was entrusted with taking care of Mary at the foot of the cross. He's the only one who stayed at the foot of the cross. He knew Jesus, and he knew Jesus intimately and well as a very close friend, as someone he He has spent a lot of time with, and yet look at what happens here. When he sees Jesus, first of all, when he hears Jesus speaking, What does he hear? A voice like a trumpet. That's not normal. That's not the way he would have heard Jesus in his earthly time. Jesus had a regular voice of a regular man, but here it's the voice of a trumpet, and he turns to hear the one who's speaking to him, and he sees One like a son of man. This is directly out of Daniel 7. It's one of Jesus' favorite ways of identifying himself in the Gospels. It is a picture of glory, of majesty, of authority, of kingship. He's one like the Son of Man, clothed with a long robe, with a golden sash. around his chest. He is king, he is priest. The hairs of his head are white, like white wool, like snow, his eyes are like a flame of fire. He sees Everything with a penetrating insight. His hair, white like wool, shows wisdom and eternality, antiquity His feet are like burnished bronze, holiness refined in a furnace, the voice like the roar of many waters. First it was like a trumpet, now it's like the roar of many waters This is a voice of authority. This is a voice of commanding presence. This is a voice of awesome power. In his right hand he holds seven stars from his mouth comes a sharp two-edged sword. That's his picture as prophet, the one who And so awesome is this vision of Jesus that John falls at his feet as though dead. This was a man he ate supper with. This was a man he spent time in a boat on the Sea of Galilee for how many hours? This is a man he sat at his foot and feet and listened to him teach while he was here on earth. But now he sees him in his glory. He sees him in this revelation, this unveiling of who he really is as the great prophet, priest, and king, the great I am, the Alpha and the Omega the one who died and who was alive forevermore, the one who holds the keys of death and Hades, the one who speaks with unmatched authority, the one who rules with un Equaled wisdom, the one who sees with an absolutely penetrating insight, the one who speaks with a word that is powerful, more powerful than all the kings of the earth combined, and John falls at his feet like a dead Man. He is overwhelmed by the vision of the glory and the power and the majesty and the wisdom and the insight of Christ. The Holy One. And it's my prayer that Revelation would do that for us by the power of the Holy Spirit. That we would see Jesus, that we would know Jesus, that we would worship Jesus so much more deeply and profoundly for who He is and who He has revealed. He is among his churches. He is guiding his people. He is ruling over all things. I'm so excited to be getting into this book with you. Hope you can tell that. Let's pray together. Father, what a savior we have. The glorious, awesome, powerful, holy, wise, insightful Savior. There is no one like Jesus in heaven or on earth. No one compares to him. Thank you for him. Help us to see Jesus ever more clearly as we spend time together in Revelation. May Jesus become so real To us and so compelling to our souls that we would just follow Him with trust and joyful worship and faithful obedience in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Well, we're just getting started with Revelation, but you know the way this reading program goes, we can go back to Jeremiah tomorrow and the next day, looking forward to that as well. We'll be back in Revelation in just a few days. Have a blessed day in the Lord.