Good morning, good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter for day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bevel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 947th day together in the Word of God. Another cup of coffee a hand, and we are here for Revelation 11. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the wonderful book of Revelation. How it encourages and challenges us, how it reminds us of who we are and whose we are and where we live and what is happening and calls us to faithfulness. Speak to us today through Revelation 11, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Revelation 11. Then I was given a measuring rod, like a staff, and I was told, Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship there But do not measure the court outside the temple. Leave that out, for it is given over to the nations, and they will trample the holy city for forty-two months. and I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth. These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth. And if any one would harm them, fire pours from their mouth and consumes their foes. If any one would harm them, this is how he is doomed to be killed. They have the power to shut the sky, that no rain may fall during the days of their prophesying, and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague as often as they desire. And when they have finished their testimony, the beast that rises from the bottomless pit will make war on them and conquer them and kill them, and their dead bodies will lie in the great city that symbolically is called Sodom in Egypt, where their Lord was crucified For three and a half days some of the peoples and tribes and languages and nations will gaze at their dead bodies and refuse to let them be placed in a tomb. And those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and make merry and exchange presents, because these two prophets had been a torment to those who dwell on the earth. But after three and a half days, a breath of life from God entered them, and they stood up on their feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them. Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Come up here. And they went up to heaven in a cloud, and their enemies watched them. And at that hour there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified, and gave glory to the God of heaven. The second woe has passed. Behold, the third woe is soon to come. Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. and he shall reign forever and ever. And the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worshipped God, saying, We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, who is and who was, for you have taken your great power and begun to reign. The nations raged, but your wrath came, and the time for the dead to be judged, and for rewarding your servants, the prophets and saints and those who fear your name, both small and great, and for destroying the destroyers of the earth. Then God's temple in heaven was opened. And the ark of his covenant was seen within his temple. There were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, an earthquake, and heavy hail. Chapter eleven, The Two Witnesses in the Temple Many people who have a futurist view of Revelation think that this is going to happen in the literal earthly Jerusalem, in a rebuilt literal, earthly physical temple And that there will be two actual witnesses who will testify for three and a half years during what some people call the Great Tribulation. I just think that whole way of looking at Revelation is incorrect. Um because I think that what we have is a a series of cycles of visions that are, again, what we've covered already, recapitulation, progressive parallelism, we're being shown the same period of time which is the Church Age, the time between Pentecost and the Parousia, between the outpouring of the Holy Spirit, the beginning of the Church Age, uh the New Testament Church Age, and the second coming of Jesus Christ and the great day of the Lord. And we're giving a series of visions that tell this story of this time period from different perspectives. We've had the perspective of conquerors, war, famine, and death from the four horsemen. We've had the perspective of natural disasters and ecological disasters that are man-made from sin. We've had the perspective of those who are sealed by the Lord, who then pass through the tribulation. Here we have the perspective of the church as temple and witness. We know that the temple of God in the New Testament age is the church. The church is called the temple of God at the end of Ephesians 2 and again in 1 Peter 2. And really Jesus himself, when he said to Peter in Matthew 16, On this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. You can connect that thematically with what he said about his body being the temple. He said, if you destroy this temple, I will raise it up again in three days. And what we're told in the rest of the New Testament about the church being the body of Christ, we are the body of Christ. Christ, who is the chief cornerstone and the head of the temple. We are the temple of the living God, both personally As we're told in like 1 Corinthians 6, we're personally the body of the temple of Christ, but we're also living stones being joined together into a living temple, 1 Peter 2. And so the church is the temple. The temple is the church in the New Testament age. The church is also to be witnesses. The Great Commission is you're going to be my witnesses You'll be my witnesses to the nations. And so here we have a picture of the church age as temple and witness. We also have a very specific reference to three and a half years and then three and a half days. The three and a half years connects back to the book of Daniel and to the 70 weeks that Daniel was told were necessary to fulfill the work of God. before the end. There were sixty-nine weeks between the restoration to Jerusalem by the decree of Cyrus and the coming of the anointed one, that is the Messiah. It's 69 times seven years. And if you look at the the figures, it's about that long between the decree of Cyrus and the time when Jesus comes uh to the temple comes as the anointed one as the Messiah. And then we have a a 70th week in Daniel that's strange. It's divided in the middle in some way, and different people interpret this 70th week different ways. Dispensationalists say the church age is a pause between the 69th week and the 70th week. And the tribulation that's coming in the future is that seventieth week, that seventh seventieth period of seven years. But I think I think the way to look at that is that the first three and a half years of that week is the ministry of Jesus on earth, all that Jesus began to do while he was on earth. But then the book of Acts continues that story of what Jesus is doing now. as Messiah through his church. And that second half of that week, that second three and a half year period of time, is elongated, it's stretched out, it's symbolic, and it covers the rest of church age. It's referred to here as 42 months or as 1260 days. I think it's the second half of the 70th week of Daniel and it applies to the whole church age. I think that's that's the way that we should take that. And that the the 70th week of Daniel was split in half by the death and resurrection of Jesus, where you know Jesus is crucified as an abomination that makes desolate the temple. He is he's he's the abomination, he's the cursed one of God, and he makes the temple desolate. That's why the curtain tears in two from top to bottom and is empty The temple is empty at that point. Ever since Jesus died on the cross and the veil was torn in the temple, the temple in Jerusalem serves no more spiritual purpose. It stands for another generation for another forty years to give that generation of Jewish people an opportunity to repent and turn to their Messiah before the kingdom is taken away from them in a violent way in A. D. 70 and is transferred to the church. So there is a transitional generation from AD 30 to AD 70 during that period of time. But now the temple is the church. The church is the temple. is Jesus predicted this in the parable of the vineyards. We just go to the Gospels and read the parable of the vineyards and of the vineyard and the tenants in the vineyard. The master eventually um kills the tenants, takes the vineyard away from them, and gives it to other people. So Jesus himself said that this is exactly what he was going to do. in response to the tenants of the vineyard, the Jewish leadership killing the Son of God. So that's what happened And so we live now in this church age. We are, we the church, are the temple and the witnesses. Now why two witnesses? Well there's a couple of reasons for this. One, there's two witnesses because everything in the law requires two or three witnesses to be established. But also there's reference here to the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of all the earth. Okay, that's in verse four. And that reference is a reference to um to let make sure I have my reference right. Sh sh shekariah, I believe, chapter three. And um Sorry, scanning my notes. Yep. Okay. Which is the the two witnesses are these two anointed officers. They're the two anointed ones that stand before all the earth And so they represent what what are the two anointed offices that the church is carrying out? Yeah, this is from Zechariah 4. Sorry. Zechariah 4. You have a high priest and a prophet. Um and we, as the church, we are all priests. We all have a priesthood, a universal priesthood of all believers, and we all have a prophetic role. And so Jesus is the king. He's the one king over this kingdom. He's made us to be a kingdom and priest to serve our God. So some people would say that we are princes and priests. Some people would say we are priests and prophets. In Zechariah, it is a royal leader who rebuilds the temple and then a high priest will lead the worship in it. You could see that royal leader is being fulfilled in Christ. And then Zechariah, of course, who's writing it, is the prophet who's proclaiming So you could say it's the priest and the prophet. I don't think you have to get too caught up in those details, but just know that we are anointed by God with the Holy Spirit. This is the olive trees, the lampstands, it's the indwelling power of the Holy Spirit, which again, like the fact that we're temple, is each individual believer, but also the church gathered together. So the Holy Spirit lives in us. Olive oil of anointing, lampsand the fire of anointing. We are Holy Spirit anointed to Speak the truth, declare the truth, as ambassadors for Christ, as prophets of God. Not that we prophesy in the sense of seeing him to the future, but we prophesy in the sense of speaking forth of the Word of God, which is the primary role of a prophet. And we are priests, we are intercessors. We pray, we make intercession on behalf of the land that God has put us in. And so they're prophesying. There's references here to Ezekiel, I mean, not Ezekiel, Elijah, they have the power to shut up the sky so that no rain may fall That's a reference to the ministry of Elijah, which James says Elijah was a man like us. So there's power in our prayers. And there's pro power in our prophesying. And the reason why I go with uh prophet and priest is because those are the two things that I think were were shown here is you have powerful prophecy and you have powerful prayer, which is what a priest would do making intercession uh before God. And so we're called to bear witness. Again, this is Representative language, but it ties in directly with what came earlier in Revelation. We've already seen this. What is the incense that goes up before the throne of God but the prayers of the saints? How does God respond to the incense that's lifted up before his throne? But he sends forth fire on the earth to judgment. And so we're already this everything in Revelation is connected to each other. You should be able to see connections across the chapters if you're on the right track. And so we are the witnesses. And we are the church, the temple of the living God. So what if this beast is going to kill them and then they're going to lie in the street for three and a half days? I do think that Revelation is indicating That at some time in the future, before the Lord Jesus comes, right before the Lord Jesus comes, there will be a global persecution of the church such as has never been seen before in the history of the world. And Christianity will be outlawed, Christians will be persecuted, will be put to death in mass executions. The church will seem to be extinguished from the world. For a brief period of time. Three and a half days as it compared to three and a half years is just a brief period of time. And then Christ comes. Because the loud voice says, come up here, and they go up to heaven, and at that hour there's a great earthquake. And this earthquake is a signal that the glory of the God of heaven is coming, the second woe has passed, behold, the third woe is yet to come. It's a little little unclear exactly what second woe and third woe refers to, but I think that um This the second woe is is the global persecution of of the church. And so the seventh trumpet is going to bring the third woe. The third woe is definitely the judgment day that comes with the second coming of Christ at the sound of the last trumpet. Which we're told that in Scripture, even like in 1 Thessalonians 4, the trumpet of God will sound the last trumpet. So the last trumpet that blows at the end of Revelation 11 is the final trumpet. And so it is the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is when, by the way, the kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever Sometimes post-millennial people, people who have a triumphalist view of Christianity, who think that Christians are going to convert the whole world and make the whole United Nations into a holy assembly that's praising the Lord. That's not promised in scripture. It takes you down a dark path of political compromise and trying to, you know, be way too worldly. The w the time when the kingdom of the world becomes the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ is at the blowing of the seventh trumpet at the coming of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. He comes to nations that are raging. He comes to nations that are in rebellion. He comes at a time when his church has been violently persecuted That's when he comes again. So I don't think we should think that the gospel is going to take over the world before Jesus comes. I don't find that in Revelation. It's been my studies of Revelation. that have firmly convinced me that the post-millennial position is incorrect because it is not it is not showing us an ever increasing Light that takes over the whole world and the whole world becomes Christianized. It is conflict, persecution, and yet Jesus comes again. to rescue. So that's what happened. So what what can we learn from Revelation 11? Well here's a couple things. First of all, if you're a Christian, you're part of the church. You're part of the temple of God. You need to be in a church, you need to be connected to a church, you need to be worshiping in a church. Churchless Christianity is unbiblical Christianity. So if you're watching this or listening to this and you're not a part of a local church, get to a church. Join a church. Be committed to the church. Because that's how God is working in the world. He's working through his church. That's his point. Promises are given to his people and to his church. We need to bear witness. We need to bear witness boldly, and we need to pray boldly. We need to be more Convinced and more convicted in both our witness and our prayers. And that's a challenge for us. And we need to also see that just because we're being persecuted Doesn't mean we're being unfaithful, right? And God is working and he's using our witness and he's using our prayers, even though it means we may face great opposition. The call of Revelation is to be faithful to the end, because in the end Jesus will come and set everything right. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, keep us faithful to you. Let us be your prophets and priests. Let us be those who proclaim the gospel and who pray. For our neighbors, for our nation. May your church be more and more faithful to you, proclaiming the truth without fear of man. and boldly praying for the advancement of your kingdom, for your gospel to save people from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. We pray this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Revelation 11. Tomorrow we are going back to Lamentations. We're going to be in the very heart of Lamentations tomorrow. Lamentations chapter 3. Have a blessed day in the Lord.