Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter for day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bammel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 963rd day together in the Word of God, and we come to Revelation Chapter 15. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Your word is truth. You alone have the words of eternal life. Your word is living and active. Would you please penetrate our hearts by your Holy Spirit, wielding your word to do the work that you alone can do? Show us our sin, show us our Savior, lead us to Christ, we pray, in Jesus. Revelation chapter 15. Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and amazing. Seven angels with seven plagues, which are the last, for with them the wrath of God is finished. And I saw what appeared to be a sea of glass mingled with fire, and also those who had conquered the beast and its image and the number of its name standing beside the sea of glass with harps of God in their hands. And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, great and amazing. are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty, just and true are your ways, O King of the nations, who will not fear you, O King God, O Lord, and glorify your name, for you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. After this I looked, and the sanctuary of the tent of witness in heaven was opened, and out of the sanctuary came the seven angels with the seven plagues, clothed in pure bright linen. with golden sashes around their chests, and one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God who lives for ever and ever And the sanctuary was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one could enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished. Revelation fifteen is this chapter that kind of serves as a intermediary or setup chapter for Chapter 16, where we're going to get the seven bowls of God's wrath. And here we have a vision of these seven angels. Who have seven plagues, and we're not given any more information about them other than this is clearly judgment on the world. And it is judgment that is going to lead up to the consummation, because with the last of them the wrath of God is finished. In this way it's the same as the seals, the same as the trumpets, the same as the bowls. When God is finished Pouring out his wrath on the world in time. And temporal judgments are judgments that have a possibility for people to respond to them with repentance. It's not eternal judgment. It's a way of God revealing his justice, revealing his wrath, revealing his displeasure. with the unrighteousness and the ungodliness in the world. And we've seen them do so through man-made disaster that is conquering and famine and war and death, through natural disasters. as well as man-made ecological disasters, and here's just plagues, diseases. We don't know what kind, we're not really told, but it should call to mind the plagues of Egypt. Because that's the language it's being used here. That is, plagues are judgments sent by God upon an unbelieving world which persecutes and oppresses the people of God. But we see at the same time that the wrath of God is being poured out, the people of God are worshiping. The people of God, those who had conquered the beast, and its image, and the number of its name, standing beside the sea of glass with harps of God in their hand. God's people praise, even as plagues unfold as judgments of God upon the earth, God's people praise him. Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God be Almighty. Just and true are your ways, O King of the nations. The Lord God Almighty is the sovereign King of the nations. Jesus is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. All nations of people No matter where they are, they owe the Lord their allegiance and their obedience because he has made them in his image. And he has sent his son to be their redeemer and their king. And if they refuse that, then they come under God's displeasure. So we are all called to fear the Lord and glorify his name because he is holy, and we're told that all nations will come and worship. For your righteous acts have been revealed. What does that mean that all nations will come and worship? Well, there will be a people of God gathered from among Every tribe, tongue, people and nation. This is back in Revelation five when we saw the twenty four elders and we saw the great multitude around the throne, they said, You are worthy, O Lamb, to open the scroll because you were slain. And with your blood you w purchased for God a people from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. All nations will come, because out of all nations will come the people of God. But not everybody from every nation is going to worship voluntarily as those who've been redeemed. In the end, as Philippians 2 tells us, every knee will bow. All nations will come and worship you. But this will be a worship after God has revealed Jesus to the nations, and they come because they have no choice. They're compelled to come because Because they now see who Jesus is, but unfortunately at that point it's too late because they can't have faith in Jesus and repent of their sins, but they come and So this is the song that God's people sing. It's focused on the character of God, He's just and true, He's holy, the actions of God, great and amazing, are your deeds. Your righteous acts have been revealed, and God's people worship God for his character and for his actions in all circumstances of life, even as plagues. are being poured out, or being given these seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God, and they're going to actually be poured out in the next chapter, in chapter sixteen. But I think our takeaway from today is very, very simple, and that is The gospel is for every tribe-tongue people and nation, so that all nations can come and worship the Lord. And God's people are to praise Him. for his good and holy character and for his right and just actions, even when that leads to wrath being revealed in ways that are unpleasant to see and unpleasant to experience. But God is still good, and we need to confess with the Lord that that wrath is deserved as we continue to proclaim the gospel and call people to repent. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your justice. We thank you for your mercy on us, your children. We thank you for your righteous acts that you have revealed ultimately in your Son Jesus Christ. Would you please draw our hearts to worship you, worship you sincerely, earnestly, wholeheartedly, in spirit and in truth, that you might be glorified in us, that we might be satisfied in you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Revelation 15. Tomorrow we are going to be going back to Ezekiel and picking up with our next chapter there. So have a blessed day in the Lord.