Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter for a day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. And it's good to be with you for this 951st day in the Word of God. And we are in Revelation again, Revelation chapter 12. For some strange reason, like the same exact microphone hooked up in the same way will be wildly different in the volume levels from one of these devotionals to the next. I haven't quite figured that out why that is. Anyway, let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and for your faithfulness. Thank you for your word. Thank you for this powerful twelfth chapter of Revelation. As we look at it together, would your Spirit guide us and lead us into the truth? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we're here right kind of in the middle of Revelation at Revelation 12, and we get the story. of much of what's going on in Revelation, we're getting given it kind of in story form here with uh These different characters. There's going to be seven of them eventually who are going to come into play. The woman, the dragon, the child, Michael. The beast, the false prophet, and the harlot. And they're going to tell us the story that we've really been learning all along, which is that there is a cosmic conflict between God and his people and Satan and the forces of evil in the world. So let's hear this from Revelation 12. And a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars. She was pregnant, and was crying out in birth pains and the agony of giving birth. And another sign appeared in heaven, behold a great red dragon with seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems. His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven, and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bore her child he might devour it She gave birth to a male child, who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron, but her child was caught up to God and to his throne And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, in which she is to be nourished for 1,260 days. Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back. But he was defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in heaven. And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent who is called the devil and Satan. the deceiver of the whole world, he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now The salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of His Christ have come For the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God, and they have conquered him. by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives, even unto death. Therefore rejoice, O heavens And you who dwell in them, but woe to you, O earth and sea, for the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child. But the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle, so that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness to the place where she is to be nourished for a time and times and half a time The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman to sweep her away with a flood. But the earth came to the help of the woman And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had poured out from his mouth. Then the dragon became furious with the woman and went off to make war with on her make war on the rest of her offspring. on those who keep the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus. And he stood on the sand of the sea. Alright, so Revelation twelve. We have a woman. This woman represents the people of God, Israel, the Church. Some would say Mary. The Catholic Church would say Mary. I think it's more than that. but represents the people of God, the bride of the Lord. I actually think this is one of the passages in Scripture that teaches um covenantal theology, continuational uh covenantal theology between Israel Old Testament, Church, New Testament. Some people call that replacement theology. I think that's a bad uh name for it because uh Israel was the church under age in under the old covenant under the law of Moses and the church is the spiritual Israel in the new covenant age under the gospel, under the headship of Christ. But Christ is Lord of of His one bride. There's one bride. Okay, we see that really in the the twelve stars is the key to that's the number of the people of God. Twelve Tribes of Israel, twelve apostles of the Lamb, the twenty-four elders. And so it's the same woman before she gives birth to a child and after she gives birth to a child. although her place changes. She goes from having a place, we don't know exactly where she was before, it doesn't say, but we could say Jerusalem, right? The temples in Jerusalem. to then being in the wilderness, scattered, we could say, like in in the wild, no longer in the holy city. So the woman gives birth to a child. The child, there's no doubt who the child is, a male child who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. That's Jesus. He's caught up to God and to his throne. That's the ascension. So we have the birth, life, death, resurrection, ascension of Jesus all in verse 5. And then you have the church age, which is represented in two different numbers here that we've seen before. 1260 days, and then a time times and a half a time, three and a half years sometimes referred to as forty-two months. It's the same period of time. And this again reinforces the idea that we should think of this as the church age, because the woman is in the wilderness being persecuted by the dragon for this period of time, this three and a half year period of time, which, if you were with me Before, we said, is the second half of the 70th week of Daniel from Daniel chapter 10. So There's war in heaven. Michael and his angels fight against the dragon. The dragon and his angels fall back, fight back. Now earlier when this dragon is first introduced, We're told in verse 4 that his tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. Satan is the dragon. We're told that very explicitly. The third of the angels is the third of the stars. Right? So Satan, when he falls, when he rebels against God, he takes a third. of the angels who then become demons, evil spirits. They share his downfall. Initially they have a place in heaven But then they lose their place in heaven because Michael and his angels fight against them and win. But Jesus in the Gospels says, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. And it's through the ministry of Jesus, it's through Jesus bringing the kingdom of God into the world that Satan loses his place in heaven. If you know the book of Job, you'll know that Satan had access to the throne room of God as one of the sons of God you know, the the angelic creatures who could have access to God and he could bring accusation against Job, but no more. No more. Satan has no voice before the throne of God to bring accusation in heaven's courts against God's people. He still lies. That's the the river that he spews forth trying to drown the woman. That's his lies, his accusations, his slander, his deceit. That's the wickedness of the serpent. But he has no more standing before heaven, before the throne of God, because Jesus has paid it all. It is finished. Our sins are forgiven. There's no more ground for accusation. But that doesn't mean there's no more trouble for the church. But how does the church conquer? Hmm The serpent thrown down fights against the woman. They have conquered him by the blood of the lamb, and by the word of their testimony, for they love not their lives. unto death. A true believer in Jesus Christ, who belongs to the people of God and who has victory over the enemy, trusts in the blood of the Lamb and gives testimony that he or she trusts in the blood of the Lamb and does not love their lives even unto death. So the martyrs, those who who faced death for their testimony in Jesus and said, Yes, I'm willing to lay down my life because I know Jesus has conquered sin and death, and I do not love my life unto death. Those are the true people of God. Those are the true disciples of the Lamb. Those are the true redeemed ones who stand before the throne of God. and who have victory over the enemy. The dragon is furious. The dragon is making war on the church. This is what's happening throughout the church age. The way he's doing it, we'll get to next time, and that is through these beasts. Or we call them the beast and the false prophet, but it's a first beast and the second beast. But we'll get to those. Um but this this is the reality we live in. If you're a Christian, if you're a child of God, know this. Satan hates you. Satan's gonna come after you with lies. He's gonna try to flood you with deceit. But hold to the blood of the Lamb that washes away all of your sin. Hold to the testimony that you have faith in Jesus Christ and do not love your life in this world. Realize that the life you have in Jesus Christ is far better. And that is how we overcome. We overcome because He has overcome. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for Jesus our Savior who has overcome sin and death for us. Unite our hearts to Christ in such deep dependence on Him that the blood of the Lamb, the Word of our testimony, would be the powerful anchors and the driving force of our lives. before a watching world and before the enemy of our souls, who cannot touch us if we are in Christ, because we are safe and secure in the Redeemer. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thanks for joining me for Revelation 12. Tomorrow we're going to begin the book of Ezekiel together. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.