Good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our nine hundred and twenty-second day together in the Word of God, and we come today to Revelation Chapter 5, a powerful chapter of how worthy Christ is to be Lord of all. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gift of another day together in your word. Thank you for the gift of Revelation five, a most Beautiful, glorious, powerful chapter in your word. Please write Revelation 5 deep in our hearts, that it might deepen our worship of Jesus, our appreciation for Him, and our walk with Him. We pray this in His name. Amen. Revelation chapter 5 Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll. written within and on back, sealed with seven seals. And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals? And no one In heaven, or on earth, or under the earth, was able to open the scroll or to look into it, and I began to weep loudly because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it. And one of the elders said to me, Weep no more Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders I saw, a lamb standing as though it had been slain with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne. And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty four elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals. For you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God, from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priest to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. Then I looked and I heard around the throne and the four living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands. saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb who was slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing And I heard every creature, in heaven and on earth, and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them saying, to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might for ever and ever. And the four living creatures said, Amen, and the elders fell down and worshipped. Wow, what a stirring scene of heavenly worship. It picks up on the scene that we were in several days ago in Revelation chapter 4, where we saw God worshiped as creator. And we saw that in that chapter, the final verse was this praise of how worthy the Lord is. Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things and by your will they existed and were created. So God, the Lord, our Lord and God is worthy to receive all glory and honor and power for creation, for creating all things, and because by his will they existed and were created. But now A question is asked of who is worthy. And who is worthy is tied into this scroll that is Written and sealed with seven seals. What is this scroll? Well, this scroll is a covenantal inheritance It is for a man to open, as one made in the image of God, as one given dominion over the earth, it is for a man to open to receive the kingdom of God and to unfold the plans and purposes of God for his creation. So chapter four is focused on praise in creation Because God is worthy. Chapter five is focused on redemption. The redemption of God's creation the working out of God's purposes to redeem and restore his creation. And the question is asked, who is worthy? And there's no one worthy. There's no one worthy. In our Sunday morning sermon a couple of Sundays ago, we saw that Psalm 14 says, there is no one who is righteous, not even one. If there's no one who is righteous among men, then there's no one who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals. It's the same issue. There's no one. Everyone has sinned, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, Romans 3. 23 says No one in heaven or on earth or under the earth is able to open the scroll and look into it. It is for a man, it is for a human being. made in the image of God, put in dominion over all creation, to receive, but no one is worthy. And so John begins to weep because God is worthy of worship for his creation. But no man is worthy to carry out the plan of redemption. That means the plan of redemption would go unfulfilled. And so John begins to weep. To weep loudly, because he realizes that if no one can open this scroll, there is no hope. There's no hope for him, there's no hope for God's people, there's no hope for all of the promises of God to be confirmed and to be accomplished. So he begins to weep loudly. And then one of the elders, one of the 24 elders, says to him, Weep no more. Weep no more. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has conquered So that he can open the scroll in its seven seals. Here's someone found who's worthy, who's accomplished something, he's conquered He's the conquering lion of the tribe of Judah. He's the conquering root of David. We know that this is the one who fulfills the Davidic covenant promises and who inherits the Davidic covenant promises of the kingdom of God. And so John wants to see this lion, this lion of the tribe of Judah. And so he looks. And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders he sees a lamb. He was told to look at the lion, and he turns and sees the lamb. He's told that the lion has conquered the lamb that he sees looks as though it has been slain But it has seven horns and seven eyes, which is representative of the Holy Spirit of God going out to all the earth. When Jesus ascended to the right hand of God the Father, he was given the gift of the Holy Spirit to pour out upon his Church. This is a picture of Jesus, the lion and the lamb, the root and offspring of David. The one who is worthy. He goes. He takes the scroll from the right hand of God who is seated. This is a scene very reminiscent of Daniel chapter 7. Where Daniel sees one like a son of man who approaches the ancient of days and receives from the ancient of days a kingdom That will last forever and ever. This is the kingdom scroll, the the inheritance, the covenantal inheritance that he's receiving And when he takes that scroll, the four living creatures who always cry out, holy, holy, holy, they begin to praise. The twenty-four elders they fall down before the Lamb. Each of them has a harp and a golden bowl full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. So they are offering praise and worship on behalf of God's people to this lamb. And they sing this new song, this wonderful song in verses 9 and 10. Worthy are you to take the scroll and open its seals, for you were slain. And by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priest to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. Earth. Jesus is worthy because Jesus was slain. And by being slain, he has conquered. How has he conquered? He's conquered by ransoming people for God. This is the kingdom of God. This is the plan and purpose of God, that people from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, every tribe and language and people and nation would be ransomed for God and would be made into a kingdom and priests. to our God and shall reign on the earth. You and I are included in that. We are foreign tribes, not a part of the people of Israel. We are those who are ransomed and redeemed and given The kingdom made into the kingdom of God and priests to our God. And that is worthy of praise. And so the 24 elders Praise. And then this praise of the Lamb, it it grows. It grows from the 24 elders. to many angels, myriads and myriads, and then every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth. Look at this from uh verse eleven to verse um 13. It expands. The praise expands. Around the throne and the living creatures and the elders, the voice of many angels, myriads of myriads, thousands of thousands. A myriad is ten thousands. So myriads of myriads is hundreds of millions of angels. Do you know that there are hundreds of millions of angels? Who praise God and who serve us who belong to God, who are the kingdom and the priests. And they praise, what do they say? Worthy is the Lamb who was slain. to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. Power and wealth and wisdom and might Light and honor and glory and blessing. Sevenfold tribute to the Lamb. The lamb has seven eyes, the lamb has seven horns, the lamb reigns with the power of God, and the lamb receives a sevenfold tribute And I heard every creature, every creature now in heaven and on earth and under the earth. This is Philippians 2, saying, every knee shall bow in heaven or on earth or under the earth And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Here it is, being shown in Revelation five, every creature in heaven and on earth, and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, To the one who sits on the throne And to the Lamb, be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever. Fourfold, because remember the four living creatures represent the four aspects of creation. The four living creatures said, Amen, and the elders fell down and worshiped. This passage should compel us to be so thankful for Jesus that he is so worthy and that we have been made partakers of his kingdom. He's worthy to open the scroll. He was slain for us. He ransomed us. He made us a kingdom and priests to our God. He is worthy, we are blessed, to worship him and glorify him and know him and live before him. Nothing better could ever be imagined in heaven or on earth. Let's pray. Father, we are so humbled and so thankful That you've made us your kingdom through the gift of your Son, who was slain that he might conquer sin and death for us forevermore. We are so blessed, and he is so worthy. May our lives be worship. May our lives be gratitude and praise. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's Revelation chapter 5. Glorious chapter. Tomorrow we are going to go back to the prophet Jeremiah. Have a blessed day in the Lord.