Good morning, good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Here in our 27th week together in the Gospels, we are in Luke 16. Yesterday we looked at the first half of the chapter. Today we're looking at the second half of the chapter, verses 18 to 31. And we're going to be asking this question today. Are you Lazarus or the rich man? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we need you to be our teacher. Your word is perfect, but we can be thick-headed and blind to the truth. So we need you to open our eyes and soften our hearts and lead us in the truth. In Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 16, verses 18 to 31. Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery. And he who marries a woman divorced from her husband commits adultery. There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen, and who feasted sumptuously every day And at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores, who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores. The poor man died, and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side The rich man also died and was buried, and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off. and Lazarus at his side, and he called out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame But Abraham said, Child, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad things But now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish. And besides all this, between us and you, a great chasm has been fixed. in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us. And he said, then I beg you, Father, to send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers, so that he might warn them lest they also come into this place of torment But Abraham said, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. And he said, No, Father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent. And he said, if they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead. Well, despite what you may see on television or in the movies, God tells us that the world contains only two kinds of people. And so neither the message of infinite diversity nor the message of essential sameness is accurate God has created a variety of people indeed, and yet we are all made in his image. So we are diverse, and yet we are all human. But this misses the most important point. God says the whole world has two kinds of people, those who belong to him and those who are in rebellion against him. The Bible repeats this message to us over and over again. Some are on the broad road that leads to destruction. Well, others are on the narrow road that leads to life. Matthew seven, thirteen, and fourteen. Some are sheep, and some are goats, according to Matthew twenty-five. Some follow the voice of lady wisdom, while others follow the woman folly, according to Proverbs 9. Some are righteous while others are wicked, in Psalm 1 and Psalm 112. Some are in the kingdom of God's Son, while others are in the kingdom of darkness, Colossians 1, 13 and 14. In today's passage. The two kinds of people in the world are represented in Jesus' story by the characters of the rich man and Lazarus. The rich man seems abundantly blessed in this life. He has all the world's material goods and advantages. He has not just money, but a large family and lots of friends, as evidenced by the rich feasts. he hosts at his home. Lazarus seems absolutely cursed in this life. He is unemployed, homeless, destitute. He seems to have no family, no friends, no one to care for him except the dogs, a vile, unclean animal in Israel, who lick his sores as he begs outside of the rich man's gate While we are told that Lazarus desired to be fed from the scraps that fell from the rich man's table, we don't know that he ever received such relief from his hunger For those who hold to some form of the prosperity gospel, this parable is a strong rebuke. For all of us who are tempted to use our external circumstances to measure how God is pleased with our lives, this parable is a strong rebuke. While the rich man and his relatives have many material blessings, Jesus presents them as having two core problems. First, they are hardened to the Word of God. And second, they are indifferent to the needs of others. The rich man and his family are not without religion, for Abraham indicates that they have Moses and the prophets. They are probably faithful, synagogue-attending, and Sabbath-keeping Jews, but they do not believe the Word of God. And they do not care for the needs of those who are literally sleeping right outside their gates. So what about you? Which one are you, the rich man or Lazarus? Are you a superficially religious person who has hardened his heart to the Word of God and the needs of people? Are you someone who is determined to get your good things in this life? Or are you humbly depending on the Lord and trusting in him? despite whatever adversity he brings into your life, do you trust him that you will have lasting treasures and pleasures that are yet to come if you belong to him. So are you the rich man or are you Lazarus? Let's go to Psalm 130. Psalm 130 is the kind of prayer that those who belong to the Lord will pray. It is a song of ascent. Even the title tells us it's a pilgrim song, a song of those who are going up on a journey up to their true home. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord. O Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness, that you may be feared. I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than watchman for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning. O Israel, hope in the Lord. For with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption, and he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. Let's pray. Lord, we need your mercy and we hope in your word. We do not despise your word. We are not hardened to your word. We want your word to have its way with us And our hope is in the precious promises granted to us by your word, not what our eyes can see, not how we compare in material circumstance with those around us. But what you have given, what you have promised, what you have secured for us by your Son and applied to us by your Spirit May we live for you, may we love you, and may we love others around us. As we cry to you for mercy, may we be merciful to those who need it from us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. Hope you can join me again tomorrow as we wrap up week 27. Have a blessed day in the Lord.