Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you could join us as we are getting to know our Savior better. We're here in John chapter 7. We're going to be looking at the second part of the chapter from verses 32 to 52, and we're going to be thinking about something Jesus says. in this part of the Gospel of John. And so our question for today is how do rivers of living water flow out of the hearts of believers? How do rivers of living water flow out of the hearts of believers? Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, and thank you for your Son, and thank you for your Spirit. Holy Spirit, please teach us the truth as we engage with your word. And we pray this in Jesus' name. John seven, thirty-two to fifty-two. The Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things about him, and the chief priests and Pharisees sent officers to arrest him. Jesus then said, I will be with you a little longer, and then I am going to him who sent me. You will seek me, and you will not find me. Where I am you cannot come. The Jews said to one another, Where does this man intend to go that we will not find him? Does he intend to go to the dispersion among the Greeks? and teach the Greeks? What does he mean by saying, you will seek me and you will not find me, and where I am you cannot come? On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now this he said about the Spirit whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified When they heard these words, some of the people said, This really is the prophet. Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Is the Christ to come from Galilee? Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David and comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was? So there was a division among the people over him. Some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him. The officers then came to the chief priests and the Pharisees. who said to them, Why did you not bring him? The officers answered, No one ever spoke like this man. The Pharisees answered them, Have you also been deceived? Have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in him? But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed Nicodemus, who had gone to him before, and who was one of them, said to them, Does our law judge a man without first giving him a hearing and learning what he does? They replied, Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee. So Jesus, on the last day of the feast of Passover, says, on the great day, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Does that remind you of anything from earlier in the Gospel of John Yes, it should. The conversation that Jesus had with the woman at the well. In John 4. Jesus had said to the woman at the well, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty. Again, the water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. So to the woman of the well, he talks about living water, and then he talks about A water that springs up to eternal life. And now he proclaims it to all those who are gathered in the temple that whoever believes in him will have rivers of living water flowing out of his heart. What is Jesus talking about? Well, John tells us immediately after what Jesus is talking about. This would also apply to what he meant when he spoke to the woman at the well, and that is the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the living water. Okay, but that doesn't perfectly clarify everything, does it? How does the Holy Spirit like living water? What does it mean for rivers of living water to flow out of our hearts? How does the Holy Spirit make this a reality for believers? Well, The indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit in the life, heart of every believer is nothing less than the personal presence of God Himself. Living inside every believer personally. When Jesus speaks of the heart, he doesn't mean our emotions the way that our culture thinks of heart, like follow your heart and you know, the the tug of your emotions. He means the very core of who we are. If we believe in Jesus, He pours out his Holy Spirit. He gives the Spirit of Christ, the Spirit of Wisdom, the Spirit of God, who comes and makes his home with us, who lives within us, in the heart of every believer. Now, when the Holy Spirit comes He applies to us all the benefits, all the blessings of the redemption purchased by Christ The forgiveness of our sins, the cleansing of our conscience, the assurance of salvation, knowledge, understanding, and wisdom as we Study His Word, which is why every time we come together to study the Word on this devotional podcast that you're watching or listening to, we pray. And we pray asking the Holy Spirit. to do what Jesus said he would do, which is to show us the truth. Right? But the Holy Spirit also is the one Who brings about fruitfulness in our lives? Think about Galatians 5. Galatians 5 talks about the fruit of the Spirit, right? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness. Gentleness, faithfulness, goodness, self-control, these are the fruit of the Spirit. This is the life and the vitality that flows into our souls as the life of God is within us. That fruit of love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control, that overflows to benefit others around us. That's like living water that brings not only refreshment to our own souls, but also blessing to those around us. The believer who is in a right relationship with God, the believer who is indwelled by the Holy Spirit, the believer who is being refreshed and renewed by the Holy Spirit. is not only blessed, but is a blessing as the living water flows from our hearts. is a blessing of refreshment and healing and fruitfulness and truth speaking and kindness showing to everyone around us, at least we should be. Without the abiding presence of the Holy Spirit, we are dry, we are thirsty, we are barren. And our efforts to follow Jesus and our efforts to understand his word are self-directed and thus misguided. Only the Holy Spirit brings true life, true joy, and true. And when he does so, he brings a blessing to all around us. So, how do we experience this? How do we experience the life-giving streams of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit? Well, first you have to believe in Jesus. It's very clear what Jesus says. If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink, whoever believes in me. Right? Come to Jesus, believe in Jesus. But then the second thing is we have to stay connected to Jesus. In John 15, Jesus is going to talk about how he is the vine and we are the branches. We need to stay connected to Jesus because the living water comes from him. How do we do that? We stay on our knees in prayer. We stay grounded in the Word. We engage in private and corporate worship, gathered worship together with God's people. We share in the Lord's Supper. We enjoy life-giving fellowship with other believers. God has given us these means of grace. to keep us connected to Him and to keep His grace empowering our lives at all times. We have been given in Christ Everything we need for life and godliness, for this life and the life to come, all of those blessings and benefits are applied to our hearts by the Holy Spirit. And as we live in the Spirit, as we walk by the Spirit, those blessings overflow from our lives to those around us. And that's why we should be committed to being in the Word, to being in prayer, to being in worship, and to being in fellowship. Because God there meets us and blesses us. And makes us a blessing to others. And that should be the longing of our hearts. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your son who has purchased full redemption for us. Blessings and benefits that we cannot even begin to understand fully. They're ours in Christ. Thank you. Thank you for your Holy Spirit who brings all those blessings and benefits to be ours, to be experienced by us, and for blessing others around us. O Holy Spirit, may we know more of your presence and your peace in our lives as we abide in Christ and as we walk with you by faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. This concludes week 33. Tomorrow we're going to move on to John 8. on our 34th week together. Hope you'll join me for that. Hope you have a good weekend. Hope you have a good Lord's Day. Hope you're able to worship together with God's people. Have a blessed day in the Lord.