Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. Welcome to Rooted and Reaching, the weekly radio ministry of Forest Hill Presbyterian Church in Harford County. Our mission is to be deeply rooted in God's Word and reaching our neighbors and the nations with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're committed to preaching Christ, to loving one another, and to reaching out with the love of Jesus. Part of our outreach is this weekly radio ministry presenting sermons preached at Forest Hill Presbyterian. And now, here is this week's sermon from Isaiah Chapter 40. Isaiah 40. We're going to be looking today at verses twelve to twenty-six. Who has measured the waters? in the hollow of his hand, and marked off the heavens with a span, enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance Who has measured the Spirit of the Lord? Or what man shows him his counsel? Whom did he consult? And who made him understand? Who taught him the path of justice? And taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding. Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, and are accounted as the dust. Behold, he takes up the coastlands like fine dust. Lebanon would not suffice for fuel, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering. All the nations are as nothing before him, and they are accounted by him as less than nothing and emptiness. To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness compare with him? An idol? A craftsman casteth And a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts for it silver chains. He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not rot. He seeks out a skilled craftsman to set up an idol that will not move. Do you not know? Do you not Here? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundation of the earth it is He who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers Who stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them like a tent to dwell in, who brings princes to nothing, and makes the rulers of the earth as Emptiness scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth when he blows on them, and they wither, and the tempest carries them off like stubble. To whom then will you compare me that I should be like him? says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes and see who created these He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power, not one is missing. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, there are no words adequate to even begin to describe you. You've beautifully and powerfully given us this chapter in Scripture to compel our hearts and minds to awe and wonder and humility and worship. Would you please write them on our hearts by your Holy Spirit that they might move us inwardly and shape our lives thoroughly for your glory? We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Our fears reveal what we trust in. If you're afraid of getting hurt in a car accident, you put on your seatbelt and probably have a car with good airbags. If you're afraid of storm damage to your house, you make sure you have a good homeowner's insurance policy and you probably trim the trees that are close to your house. If you're afraid of how your car is going to do on a long road trip, you have it checked out by a mechanic before you leave. If you're afraid you're not going to have enough money to retire, you might trust and have a good financial advisor and have a solid retirement savings plan to make sure that you can have that security. When we're afraid of something, we usually trust in something else to save us from the thing that we fear. And so let's start with those questions At the bottom of your life, foundationally, what is it that you fear? What are you most afraid of in life? And what are you trusting in to protect you from what you fear? Does the fear of failure drive you to work harder, trusting in your own hard work and your talent for success? Does your fear of rejection drive you to trust in people pleasing, doing everything you can to try to make people like you As we've been studying Isaiah, we found that the big fear of God's people in Judah has been that they might be conquered by an outside nation. and subdued into slavery and taken off into exile. And because of that fear, they were constantly looking for foreign alliances that might save them. In this part of Isaiah, they've been taken into exile The thing they feared most has come upon them, because all the things they trusted in could not ultimately be trusted in, and God had some humility to teach them. Because of our tendency to be very short-sighted about what our real needs are. And because of our propensity to create idols to trust in to meet those short-term needs, God often removes all of our attempted refuges and all of our trusted in resources so that we would have no recourse but to turn to the one true and living God. And that's what he's done to his people by the time they come to Isaiah 40 But in Isaiah 40, he's painting for his people this powerful picture of just who he is and just how unlike their idols he is. These people are in desperate need of real comfort because their whole identity has been shaken. Their whole security has been turned on its head. They don't know who they are. They don't know where they belong. They don't know what their purpose is. They're far from home And God commands Isaiah, bring them a word of comfort. Bring them a word of comfort. And ultimately that comfort is going to come as they, the people of God, proclaim to one another Behold your God, because God is the only source of true and unshakable comfort for his people. But what is this God like Isaiah's been inspired by the Holy Spirit to give us some of this beautiful language to try to help us to get a grasp on the fact that God is not like anything that we could possibly picture or imagine in our minds. As soon as you ask somebody Well, what is God like? If I were to ask you what is God like, and you start generating a mental picture, you're wrong. We have a great definition that we read earlier, which is that God is a spirit. Which means he doesn't have a body like we do. He's infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, that is who he is, in his wisdom, in his power, in his holiness, in his justice, in his goodness and in his truth. Okay, let's stop with one word, infinite. What does infinite look like? Nothing that you can get up come up with in your head. It's beyond, right? It's no limits. Really no limits, right? Our culture throws around all sorts of words like awesome and incredible and unbelievable and it like No, no, no. All those words should only ever be applied to God, because He's the only one who ever really embodies all of that. And so that's what we're given here. We're given these pictures You know, verse 12 begins with what uh theologians and Bible scholars call anthropomorphic language. What does that mean? Because infinite, eternal, and unchangeable spirit is just So abstract. We're given pictures not so that we would picture necessarily God because these things are not pictures of God, but they're pictures of the scale and the scope of God that are intended to blow our minds. They're intended to be on be beyond what we can possibly imagine. So let's let's look at them for a little bit. Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand and marked off the heavens with a span Enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains and scales, and the hills in a balance. Who has? measured the waters in the hollow of his hands. Some people have bigger hands than other people. Of course God doesn't have actual hands, but this is designed to make a point. How much water do you think you can hold in the hollow of your hand? Friday when I was writing my sermon I thought, I don't even see this. I can't even get half a tablespoon of water to stay in my hand But God measures the waters of the earth in the hollow of his hand. Waters of the earth. Did another little thought experiment on Friday. What there's about eight billion people on the Earth, 7. 91 something may estimate. Let's call it 8 billion people. Let's say we got everybody in the world. to go to the closest ocean that was near them and get a handful of water, right? And let's be generous and say that everyone was able to get a full tablespoon of water out Do you know that the collective population of the Earth would be able to remove about 30 million gallons of water? We could actually fill up 60 Olympic-sized swimming pools with the entire population of the Earth. Guess how much that would drain of the ocean? Not enough to measure. We could sit there and do that every second, all day long, for year after year after year, and it wouldn't even begin to drain the ocean. The size of it is beyond our comprehension. The next line says that God has marked off the heavens with a span. A span is an ancient way of measuring that goes from your tip of your thumb to the tip of your fingers. You hold it out like that. That's a span. And so you measure a span. You know, how long is a span? Eight inches, maybe, ten, I don't know. Depends on your hand, right? Some people's spans are bigger than some other spans. But I'm guessing that your span is nowhere near the size of the universe. size of the universe. We think about that sometimes. I think God made it so big so that it would blow our minds. We know that light travels at 186,000 miles per second. Hundred and eighty-six thousand miles per second. And at that speed we know that the light from the sun reaches the earth in about eight minutes. And that is a trip of ninety-three million Miles. But you know, going at that rate of speed to get from one end of the Milky Way galaxy to the other is going to take you about a hundred thousand years. That's one galaxy. And the Milky Way galaxy is one of just billions of galaxies. So look at your span, right? And on your span you've got a thumb and look at your thumbprint. Look at it closely. You might need to get your reading glasses out, right? So that hundred thousand light years across, that fits inside of a ridge of one of your thumbprints. God is God is just not I mean, he's obviously he's infinite, right? He's beyond But these are just ways of helping us to get our minds a little bit wrapped around what infinite is. So the point of verse twelve is that God is massive beyond our comprehension. He's infinite. He's without limit. Within his being. And then in verses thirteen and fourteen, he's infinite in his wisdom. Who has measured the spirit of the Lord? Or what man shows him his counsel? Whom did he consult? And who made him understand? Who taught him the path of not of justice? And taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding. You know, we God knows so much more than we possibly think. Years ago they did a survey among children that I read about, and they asked children, um Does God know all about nature? Yes. Does God know about rocks and trees and flowers? Yes. Does God know you? Yes. Does God know about your family? Yes. Does God know how computers work? And most of the kids said no. God doesn't know how computers work. Wrong. Like, I had this image in my head on Friday. And a thinking, you know, it's like one of the summers I listened to talked about it, you know, the knowledge uh of God being like an iceberg and you know we play around with the revealed knowledge of God, which is like the tip of the iceberg. But there's so much under the water that you can't even know because it's the not revealed knowledge of God. There's things he's revealed and there's things he hasn't revealed. And I think about Well, if we were just to say that the possible scope of all of the revealed knowledge of God, right, as being the tip of the iceberg, we're like an ant exploring the tip of that iceberg. We're these little ants crawling around on the surface of this iceberg, and because we've discovered what we think is awesome and great and big and so impressive We begin to think that somehow we're smarter than God. We've got this thing figured out. And they say, well, people don't really think that. Oh, don't they really? Because I hear people say stuff like this. Well, if God were really infinitely powerful and all good, he would not permit a world where bad things happen to good people, where evil and suffering are so widespread. Therefore God is either not all powerful, or he is not all-knowing, or he's not all good, since such a world of evil and suffering exists, so there, ha, I just proved the God of the Bible doesn't exist. You realize there's a massive hole in that argument, and that is that we would have to understand all the possible reasons that God might have for permitting what he permits in the world and the greater good purpose that he might have in mind for it, which means we would have to exhaustively understand the totality of the mind of God in order to be able to make a statement like that And it's absurd for us to make any kind of statement with such self-confidence. And then verses fifteen to seventeen compare the Lord to the nations of peoples on earth. Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket and are accounted as dust on the scales. In the ancient world, people would go and they would buy things by weight. And so you'd go and you'd get your fruit and it'd get put on this part of the scale, and then the weights would get put on that part of the scale and they would measure. And no one ever went to the market to buy their fruit. And said to the guy, Oh, wait a minute, there's a little bit of dust on the fruit side of the scale. That's what all the people on earth are in the eyes of God. And I saw a YouTube video. And if you watch the daily devotionals, I think I shared this earlier this week, but I watched this YouTube video. It blew my mind. And had to deal with like this question. There's a question out there. Like what would happen if all the people in the world jumped up at once and landed at once? Right? Have you heard that question? What happened to the world? So the guy did this physics uh calculation and said, okay, first of all, for maximum effect we need to gather all the people together, because if it's spread out over the say first surface of the earth there'd be tubes first. So let's gather all the people of the earth together. Let's get them all together and let's get them all like in one crowd. Like you'd see a crowd of people on the mall in DC or a crowd of crowd of people, you know, at a an event crowded together, shoulder to shoulder, front to back. Do you know that the entire population of the earth would fit inside of one state, Rhode Island? The entire population of the earth would fit in the state of Rhode Island. Rhode Island. And if we all got there and we all jumped, pfft, guess what would happen? Nothing. They say that the seismographs that are closest might register a little something, but that nothing would happen whatsoever. We're just not that great. But God is. God can blow his breath or speak the word, and the entirety of the universe would completely disintegrate. And here's some application for. Do you really think that God is sitting in heaven panicking over what he's going to do to protect his people if the next election doesn't come out the way he wants it to come out? Do I think he's like, oh, what am I gonna do? Do you think he's sweating, wondering if artificial intelligence is gonna put him out of a job? So verses twelve to seventeen paint this vivid picture of how great God is, so that his people will turn aside from their idols and trust him instead. And so that's why Uh our title of our sermon is The Incomparable God. He he he asked this question twice in our passage, verse 18, to whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness compare with him? An idol? A craftsman crafts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts for it silver chains. He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not rot. He seeks out a skilful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move It is absurd for human beings who are nothing compared to the Creator to then create things, right? A creature creating something and then worshipping that created thing Created beings created lifeless images and then bowed down before them and trust in them. It's absurd. And we look at it, it's easy, it's easy, so easy to make fun of the kind of idolatry we find in the Bible. Simple, right? Oh, you're going to make something out of silver and gold. You have to have chains for it. You know why you have to have chains for it? To make sure it doesn't either fall over or get stolen. Because you wouldn't want your God to fall over. That would be embarrassing. Or you wouldn't want someone to run off with your God and stick it in their pocket, because that would be embarrassing. It was really easy to like make fun of that, right? The one who's too poor, he gets a wood that won't rot, he skilled seeks out a skilled craftsman to set up an idol that will not move. It's like, sorry, I'm going to put this uh God up on the mantel place And you know, when my kids run in from outside and they slam the door, I don't want the idol to like fall over and fall off. That would be kind of embarrassing. Uh so just make it sturdy so it won't fall over. We we are sophisticated twenty-first century Americans. We look back on that say, how silly is that, right? But our modern idols are no better They're all flimsy, they're all contingent, they're all dependent, they're all human-created realities like political power, financial wealth, social media influence, career success, approval from others They in and of themselves have no power to sustain our hopes and our expectations or to deliver on what our souls most need. Because eternally, eternally, our security, our joy, our delight, our significance will come from being with God and without sin forever. Being accepted by God is the approval that matters most. Being cleansed by God of all sin will solve so many of our problems with apathy and with and with anger and with boredom and with uh you know easily being distracted by stupid things. Like that's what we ultimately need. We need God. But there's only one true and living God, and we need Him and not a substitute, and so He calls us to Himself Verse 21, do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It's he who sits above the circle of the earth and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, spreads them like a tent to dwell in. He brings princes to nothing. He makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness. Alexander the Great conquered the entire known world by the age of 30, and then he died. Of what? We don't know. Because you can literally be the most powerful man that the world has ever seen and and reduce nations to servitude and die like that. Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth when he blows on them and they wither, and his tempest carries them away like stubble. To whom then will you liken me that I should be like him Lift up your eyes on high and see who created these, he who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power, not one is missing. Two main things from these verses. One, God is so much greater than all the great and celebrated rulers of the earth. Any celebrity, any significant person is just insignificant compared to God. But the second thing is we're getting ready for what we're going to be really focusing on next week, and that is God has the power to keep all of the countless stars. So how much more is he able to keep his own people whom he dearly loves? Abraham was given a promise from God in two forms, two uncountable forms. Abraham was told, Your descendants will be as many as the stars of the heavens. That's uncountable. Your descendants will be as many as the sand on the seashore. Uncountable. Here, God tells us that he brings out the hosts of heaven, that's the stars, by number, calling them all by name. That which is uncountable to us, God has numbered and God has named. And because of the greatness of his might and because he is strong in power, not one is missing. God has power to preserve He calls every star in the universe by name. He keeps them all by his power. How much more does he keep his own people whom he loves? We are kept by God, each of us, and we shine brightly and we glorify our Creator, each of us, because God has entered into a covenant of grace with us by which he has said, I will be your God, and you will be my people, you will be my chosen ones, my bride, my church, my very own possession forever. God gave his son to redeem us. God gave his son to secure us and make us his own. Listen to what Jesus says in John chapter ten. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life. And they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. Look, we did a lot of talking about math and numbers and sizes and things like that. And it's all designed to say there's no way in the world you can possibly know God comprehensively. You can't even begin to know the smallest part of God comprehensively. And that may bother you. That may say, well, how is it that I can love God? How is it that I can worship God? How is it that I can trust God if I can't fully know all that He is And there's one reason for that, and that's because it's so much more important, not that you know God perfectly well, but that He knows you. There's nothing about you He doesn't know perfectly well. And He loves you. To the fullest committed extent of love. There's no secrets with God. There's a lot about God we don't understand. There's nothing about you he doesn't understand The darkest thoughts that come to you in the middle of the night and you think, what in the world? Doesn't surprise God. He knows you that well. Your best days, your worst days, your strengths, your weaknesses, he knows you better than you will ever know yourself. And he loves you more completely than you will ever begin to imagine. And he keeps the stars, but he keeps his own people. right in his hand. That hand that is so powerful that the oceans can be held in its hollow. The hand that is so mighty that it can measure the heavens with a span. That hand is the hand that keeps you, the hand that holds you The hand that will not let you go, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. The Apostle Paul at the end of Romans 8 put it this way, and we'll close with this He said, What shall we say to these things? If God, the one true and living God, the God who's described for us in Isaiah 40, if God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also, with him, graciously give us all things All those things that your heart desires, all those things that your soul needs, God knows that you need them better than you do, and he has the best possible way of giving them to you if you trust him. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies who is to condemn. Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword, as it is written, For your sake we are being killed all day long, we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered? No. In all these things, in tribulation, in distress, in persecution, in famine, in nakedness, in danger, in sword, in all these things, we are more than conquerors. Through him who loved us, I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor heights, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Let that be your soul's confidence today and every day. Thank you so much for joining us here on Rooted and Reaching, the radio ministry of Forest Hill Presbyterian Church in Hartford County, Maryland. We gather for Worship every Sunday morning at 1030, and we welcome you to join us for worship if you live in the Harper County area and you're looking for a church home. If you have questions about our church, you can find more information on our website, foresthillpca. com. org. That's foresthillpca. org. If you have specific questions, comments, or feedback about the sermon you just heard, you can email me pastor at foresthillpca. org. That's pastor at foresthill. ca. PCA. org. The PCA stands for Presbyterian Church in America. May the Lord bless you and keep you as you continue to be rooted in His Word and reaching His world.