Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. Welcome to Rooted and Reaching, the weekly radio ministry of Forest Hill Presbyterian Church in Harper County. Our mission is to be deeply rooted in God's Word and reaching our neighbors and the nations with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Committed to preaching Christ, to loving one another, and to reaching out with the love of Jesus. Part of our outreach is this weekly radio ministry presenting sermons preached at Forest Hill Presbyterian. And now, here is this week's sermon from Isaiah chapter 40. And so let's turn now to the Word of God, to Isaiah chapter 40. We'll be looking at verses 6 through 11. A voice says, Cry. And I said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grassed, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades, when the breath of the Lord blows on it. Surely the people are grass. The grass withers. The flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Go up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength O Jerusalem, herald of good news, lift it up, fear not. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God comes with light. And his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom and gently lead those that are with young. Let's pray. Father, your word is awesome. Eternal, fixed in the heavens, powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. You have exalted above all things your name and your word. So speak your word not just to our ears but to our hearts by your Holy Spirit, as only you can make it effective. to convince us of the truth, to convert us from our selfish ways to your ways, to build us up in faith and obedience. To bring us comfort. Comfort that you alone can bring. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. They say that you should never meet your heroes. Over the years, I watched people I admired and respected fall away from ministry positions or from the faith or have deep scandals uncovered about them after they died. It's too easy for us to build other people up in our minds as being greater and stronger than they really are. Today's passage contrasts the weakness and unreliability of people with the strength and dependability of God's Word and God's arm. God's promises and God's presence will never fail us. I like people. who will always disappoint us in one way or another if we place too much weight of expectation on them. There's only so much weight you can put on grass before it crumbles beneath that weight. Why do people disappoint us? Well, part of the answer is just the inherent nature of people. We're creatures, we're limited, we're mortal, we're temporary, we're weak. But part of it also lies on us in that sometimes we put expectations on people that only belong on God's shoulders. And we expect from people what God has promised to be for us or to give us. If we understand human nature as it's portrayed here as being like grass, it helps us to understand not only why other people disappoint us, but it also helps us to understand what kind of message people like us need. Because one of the keys to really getting verses 6 through 8 is when you realize it's not talking just about other people, but it's talking about us too. It is super easy to see how other people are like grass. I don't need to ask you if anyone else has ever disappointed you in your life. Because they have. If anyone else has ever let you down, if anyone else has ever broken their word to you, if anyone else has ever turned out to be less than what you were hoping they were going to be, that is part of being human. But let me ask you this question. Have you ever disappointed someone else Have you ever failed to keep your word? Have you ever dropped the ball and let someone down? We all have, because we're all grass. And the people who are grass don't need to hear self-help messages. That's very American, right? You can do it. Just believe in yourself. But if you live life long enough, you realize it doesn't work And you can tell grass all day long, you can do it. And as soon as a foot comes along, it ain't standing up. And if you've been the grass, stepped on by the foot, you realize you need something better. And that's what we need. We need God We need God. And that's why the message that Isaiah is called to proclaim is the Word of God. And the message that he calls upon the people of God to proclaim is, Behold, your God. Because we need God. We don't need ourselves Unlike people, the word of God never changes, and the word of God never fails. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Just think about this. Think about the times when you and your plans and your purposes or your promises have failed. Think about times when you've made plans and you've not been able to keep them You had a purpose in mind and you weren't able to bring it about. Or you made a promise to someone and then you later had to break that promise. Think about what happened, why it happened. Right? There are external circumstantial reasons that cause that to happen that were unforeseen to us. The last family camping trip we went on several years ago, we went up to Prince Edward Island It was beautiful and we set up our brand new tent and it was a very spacious three-room tent. It was great. The boys had a room. Catherine had a room. We had the main room. It was wonderful until it started raining And then we found out that our brand new wonderful tent didn't do well in heavy rain. And we had a rain day where we went out for the day and we did some indoor activities and we came back and the tent was in and there were puddles of water on top of the tent, which you know is not a good thing. And we looked inside and there was this much water all over the bottom of the tent. And it was still pouring down rain. So we packed it up in the pouring down rain, everything soaking wet, put it back in the van, and we just headed down the road to the first hotel we could find and stayed there. Now our plan had been to spend two nights at Acadia National Park in Maine on the way home. Well those plans went out the window because the forecast was calling for rain and everything we had was already soaked in wet. So we're just like, forget it, we're just going home. External circumstances happen Circumstances beyond our control. Sometimes you want to do something, but you have to use the money for something else, right? Sometimes you want to do something but rain happens and things collapse. That happens, right? What also happens that we're not as good about facing the reality of it is sometimes we happen and we blow it. We forget. We drop the ball. We break a promise because we just change our mind, don't really feel like doing it anymore. Oh yeah, sure, we're gonna go to Kenobles this summer. It's gonna be great. Let's go and have a great time. And then it comes down to it like man the last place I want to go. That's just so expensive and so noisy and yeah we could probably swing it. And yeah I told the kids we were going to go, but you know what, let's just let's just do something different. That's just that's just a hassle. So we change our mind because we just don't want to do it, even though we made a promise. Sometimes we lie and make promises to people just to get them off our back, and we never intend to keep them. Yes, we do, because we're grassed. But how many of any of those realities, how many of any of those realities apply to God? None of them. Does anything ever take God by surprise? And he says, Oh no, I didn't see that coming. What am I going to do now? No. Deborah run out of money? I would have done this, but I just didn't have the money. No. Scott of her lie? Impossible. Deborah make a promise he doesn't intend to keep? No. Every promise he has made is yes in Christ. Next week in Sunday school, if you've not been in the habit of kick of coming to Sunday school, come next week Make the effort to be here. It's going to be a special Sunday school. It's our transition from Old Testament to New Testament as we've been walking through the Bible. And it's going to be all the ways that Jesus fulfills the Old Testament. in a 45 minute Sunday school class. It's intended for all ages, so it'll you know, anybody can come. But we'll see how all of these things in the Old Testament that in and of themselves would be disappointing. are actually very purposeful by God to lead us to Christ. When God came into the world, when the Word of God put on flesh and dwelt among us He showed us the strength of his commitment to keep his promises no matter what. Think about the ways that Satan tempted Jesus in the wilderness. Jesus was was a man with a human nature like ours, except without sin. But any every other way he got tired like we do, he got hungry like we do, he had sorrow like we do, he had disappointment, he had joy, he had friendships, he had enemies He was betrayed. He was a human being. And he went out into the wilderness and had no food for 40 days. Now if I have no food for 40 hours, you probably don't want to be around me. Forty days with no food. And Satan comes along and says, if you are the Son of God, turn this stone into bread. Jesus could have easily rationalized it. How many times have we rationalized it? Oh, it's it's been forty days, it's close enough. No, God hasn't actually said the time's up, but you know, I don't want to be legalistic about it. He could have justified it, but he didn't. He would not satisfy his hunger, although his hunger was strong at that point. And then Satan offers Jesus all the kingdoms of the world and all their riches. But he would not break his word, his commitment to his father. Satan said, I'll give you all these, you just bow down and worship me. That's all you have to do. Just a little bit of a bowing of the knee and paying homage to me, and I'll give it all to you. I'll give it all to you. Literally everything the world has to offer. yours. If you've watched any kind of reality TV show, you know what people are capable of doing for far less than all that the world has to offer, right? You put $10,000 or $20,000 or $25,000 on the line, people all of a sudden are willing to be real nasty And real selfish. But Jesus wouldn't do it. He wouldn't do it. What did he say in response to those temptations? He said, turning the stone into bread, he said, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. And when all the world was offered to him, he said, No, you shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. The word of God and the worship of God was his heartbeat. That's what he lived for. That's what he died for. And then Satan takes him up to the top of the temple and says, Hey, why don't you show everybody who you are? You're the Son of God, you're the Messiah. Psalm 91 says, right? Satan can quote the Bible. Just because someone quoting the Bible doesn't mean they're speaking for God. Psalm 91 says, He'll command his angels concerning you, and they'll bear you up lest you strike your foot against a stone. Everyone will see who you are. But Jesus wouldn't go for it. He said, I'll not put the Lord to the test. This is why the lesson, one lesson that we need here from Isaiah 40, one lesson is that we need to hear the Word of God. But another lesson in the context of Isaiah is that we need the king who is the Word of God. And no other king will do. Every other ruler, every other politician, every other leader, every other person's going to disappoint their grass. We need to have our heart's loyalty committed to the king who is the word of God. Made flesh. Who is Emmanuel, God with us, who is the keeping of every promise of God, who kept his word at all times and all costs, even to the cost of his life, which he freely gave to us. And so Isaiah is called to proclaim the Word of God. But then what Isaiah does is he calls the people of God to join him in proclaiming the word of God. Verse 9, go up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem, herald of good news. Lift it up, fear not, say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God! Isaiah speaks, and as he speaks, what he calls God's people to do is to themselves the gospel proclaimers To be evangelists is really what this is, to be those who preach the gospel, herald of good news. And what's interesting is the first People that they're called to speak the good news to is to the cities of Judah. Now who lives in the cities of Judah? God's people The first people that we're called to preach the gospel to is to one another, to the people of God. And yes, from there, the gospel needs to go out to the world Because Israel was called to be a light to the nations. Jerusalem was set up as a city on the hill to shine light to the nations, so that the nations would come and learn about God. But here's the thing The Word of God has to be burning brightly in us before it can shine forth from us to the nation. It has to be deep in our hearts It has to be strong in our souls. It has to be on our lips as we talk to one another. We have to be building one another up in that gospel hope before we will take it out into the world. And then as we proclaim the gospel, the people of God here are given three instructions about proclaiming the gospel, and they apply to us And we need to hear them. First is go up to a high mountain. What does that mean? Does that mean we're supposed to go out to Rocks Faye Park and climb up to the King and Queen seat and stand on the rock and say, hey, Hartford County, Jesus is Lord You could. Nothing wrong with that. But that's not really what it means. What it means is our proclamation of the gospel should be public and noticeable as public and noticeable as possible. We should not be hiding our light under a bushel basket. We should not be saying, well, I'll talk to my fellow Christians at church about it, but I'm going to keep it hidden. We should be open. We should be bold. We should be proclaiming. Lift up your voice with strength is the second command That means not only be noticeable, but be clear. Be loud and clear. Be confident. Lift up your voice with strength. Don't be ashamed. And the last one is fear not. We should not be afraid of what people might say or how they might respond. This is, we need to be careful to understand what this is and what this isn't. This is the joyful proclamation of the good news of who God is. and what he has done for us in Jesus Christ. It's gospel proclamation, herald of good news, herald of good news. It's not a political debate It's not a culture war argument. It's the glorious glad tidings of God's salvation. And the essence of the message is this. Behold your God. Now there are creative ways we can do this. There are creative ways we can do this. It doesn't always have to be the same message. Here's one opportunity that we had recently, this total solar eclipse. I'm going to get a little bit science nerdy on you for a minute, but it's awesome because it's God's creation. Do you know that the moon Relative to the Earth is huge as moons go. There are other moons around other planets that we've been able to observe. Saturn has a bunch of moons Uh Jupiter has a bunch of moons, right? But they're all tiny compared to our moon. Our moon is really big. It's like fifty times the size of other moons relative to other planets. And do you know that it doesn't orbit in a level plane around the equator? It rather orbits sort of in a sideways or an uh angled orbit, right? And it actually goes up and down and sort of back and forth. The reason for that is actually very Important because the moon orbiting around the earth stabilizes the earth's orbit so that we stay steady on that 23-degree axis And we stay spinning at a steady rate. The moon being as big as it is and as heavy as it is, and orbiting the way that it does around the Earth stabilizes the Earth's rotation We have tides, high tide, low tide, caused by the moon, right? That water being shifted around the planet subtly, not dramatically. If it was too dramatic, it would flood everything, right? But it's just enough to keep the Earth very, very stable. And get this, it's just the right size and just the right distance, so that once about every 18 months or so, it gets directly between the sun and the earth so that it perfectly blocks out the sun. You realize the sun is like massively huge compared to the moon. It's millions of times bigger than the moon, right? But it's so much further away. It's 92 million miles away and the moon is like hundreds of thousands of miles away. So, but it's just the right size, realize that you put it in you put it in between the Earth and the Sun, and it's just the right size so that it just blocks out the Sun, so that we can get a total solar eclipse Which is the only time when you can look at the sun is during the totality of a total solar eclipse. And you can see the corona around the edge of the sun. So it's Perfectly balanced, it's perfectly suited, precise engineering. They had that earthquake in Taiwan recently. You guys heard about that And there weren't that many deaths or casualties comparatively, because Taiwan's one of the most earthquake proof places in the world. There's a connection between that earthquake happening and the solar eclipse happening because The tallest building in Taipei has like a giant metal ball that's like suspended, and so as the building sways, that giant metal ball acts as counterweight and it keeps it from swaying too far, it keeps it from basically Destroying itself. That's what the moon does for the earth, kind of. Same basic idea. So just God's at work. Like God is at work and his handiwork is all around us. And we can see things like that, we can share things like that, and we can just simply say, behold your God. Because whether you acknowledge him or not, whether you worship him or not, he's your God. He made you, he keeps you, and he keeps the earth spinning day and night, and he provides us with solar eclipses as a reminder. that he is in control. It's also the fact that the gospel message is, behold your God, is a reminder to us that God is the gospel. John Piper wrote a book by that name. I recommend it. It's one of his better books. God is the Gospel. And this is the basic point of that is, what is it that God gives us in the gospel that is so great? That makes it truly good news. What is it that God gives us? He forgives all of our sins. Great. That's wonderful. He gives us eternal life. That's great. That's wonderful. That's not the big prize. You realize. If you were cleansed of all your sin and you were given eternal life in a world without God, that would not be the gospel. What God gives us in the gospel is Himself. That's why he uses marriage as the analogy of his relationship with his people. A good marriage. Sorry, a good marriage, right? Do you get benefits from being in a good marriage? You do. But what would we think of a marriage where husband and wife are like, I will give you all the benefits of being married to me, but you are not going to get me It's not a marriage. That's fundamentally not a marriage, right? God doesn't say, here's all my benefits, but not me. He says, here's all my benefits so that you can have me. Because if we're sinful, we can't be in the presence of God. If we die, we can't continue to enjoy God. So because we're created to glorify and enjoy God forever, God gives us Himself in the gospel So the gospel is, here is your God. He's come to save you and to give himself to you. Rejoice, believe, and receive your God. And the final thing we see in this passage is we see as God is coming, The focus is really on the arm of God and the contrast that shows the totality of the character of God in verses 10 and 11. I'm going to read verses 10 and 11 again. I want you to focus on the arm of God. And the contrast between verse 10 and verse 11. Behold, the Lord God comes with might, and his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom and gently lead those That are with young. See that? God comes with strength and power and holy justice and with tenderness, compassion, and kindness. Gentleness because he has the strength and the power to obliterate everything in an instant by his sheer will to do so. That's the power of God. And yet, he exercises that power with justice, with might With sovereignty, but also with a gentleness that says, I will take my lambs into my arms and hold them close to my heart. And the ones who have young ones, I will lead them gently and slowly by the hand. God comes with power, with recompense. Verse 10. The Lord comes with might. His arm rules for him. His reward is with him and his recompense before him. So this is a sobering call. It's an inspiring call, hopefully, but a sobering call also, because when God comes, his reward will be with him. There will be those who will hear, Well done, good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of your master. And so you either know the Lord and you love the Lord and you serve the Lord as best you can, not perfectly, but as best you can Because you love the Lord, not because you're trying to earn your salvation, but because you know how much you've been freely given. You can't earn what God gives you freely as a gift, but you will be held accountable for what God gives you freely as a gift and how you're going to use it. But we're weak, aren't we? And we're wayward, and we're grass. And God knows that. And so verse eleven comes and says, He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms, he will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young. He doesn't want us living our lives in fear of like, did I do enough? You know. Oh I I had two minutes to talk to this cashier. I should have said John 3. 16. Like he doesn't want like panicking over. He just wants us to trust him. He knows that we're weak. He knows that we're frail. He carries us. He tends us. He leads us. And that's our strength. As long as we're living in this world, we need comfort. Because even if we're doing fine, it's been a good week, feeling pretty good. But as long as we're living in this world, we need comfort. When we're hurting, when we're weak, when we're wayward, when we're discouraged, when we're doubting, we need real and lasting help. We can't find it in the world. The world is full of grass. Flowers. Some grass is more beautiful than others. It's we call them flowers. They're no more dependable. I wouldn't trust them to hold you up any more than the grass. We can't find comfort in ourselves. We're also grass. We're frail. We're temporary. Then we're wicked grass. It's bent and broken. And so when we're under attack, when we're needing comfort, we need nothing less than the true and living God who gave himself for us in the person of Jesus Christ. We need him to be God with us, Emmanuel. We need him to be God for us. We need him to be God in us by his Holy Spirit. And he will be, and he is. And his presence and his power, his protection, his provision, his promises, they're precious to us, and they're everything for us. And we need to say to each other, Behold your God. We say, How was your week? Oh, it was a hard week. God brought you through it. I'll be praying for you And that's not just trite things. Like really God did bring you through it. And really we will be praying for you. Because God is good. And his word alone never fails. As Psalm 23 says, Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. He's got a strong rod. to fight off the enemies, to beat off the wolves and the lions, and he's got a a wise staff to correct us and bring us back. into the fold. And our good shepherd came for us. Our good shepherd tends us. Our good shepherd is committed to us. We can trust his strength. Let's pray. Father, there's no one like you. No one is strong as you, no one as good as you. Lord Jesus, Good Shepherd, help us to trust you. Help us to walk with you by faith. Help us to enjoy you and your provision. Help us to rest in your arms and help us to tell others gladly about you. We love you. Help us to love you more and more, to trust you more and more. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you so much for joining us here on Rooted and Reaching, the radio ministry of Forest Hill Presbyterian Church in Hartford County, Maryland. We gather for worship every Sunday morning at 10. 30, and we welcome you to join us for worship if you live in The Harford County area and you're looking for a church home. If you have questions about our church, you can find more information on our website, foresthillspaca. org. That's foresthillspca. org. If you have specific questions about Questions, comments, or feedback about the sermon you just heard, you can email me pastor at foresthillpca. org. That's pastor at foresthillpca. org. The PCA stands for Presbyterian Church. in America. May the Lord bless you and keep you as you continue to be rooted in His Word and reaching His world.