Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. Welcome to Rooted and Reaching, the weekly radio ministry of Forest Hill Presbyterian Church in Harford County. Our mission is to be deeply rooted in God's Word and reaching our neighbors and the nations with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're committed to preaching Christ, to loving one another, and to reaching out with the love of Jesus. Part of our outreach is this weekly radio ministry presenting sermons preached at Forest Hill Presbyterian. And now, here is this Greek sermon from Isaiah Chapter forty. Turn with me please to Isaiah Chapter forty. Hear the word of God Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned. That she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. A voice cries In the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low, the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed And all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we begin Isaiah 40 this morning, as we look to your word, we look to your spirit, we look to you, O Lord. We pray that your Holy Spirit, who inspired Isaiah to write these words so many years ago, would help us to understand, to receive, to believe, to respond in faith, and we pray this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. When you think of comfort, what do you think of? Well, I think of food. I don't know about you. Mashed potatoes and gravy, nice meatloaf. Fresh baked bread. Hey. Comfort food, right? That's what we have. Comfort food, right? Or maybe you have a favorite pillow that you just think is like that's your comfort, right? Just give me that pillow But comfort here in Isaiah 40 doesn't really mean something soft, something easy, something that puts you to sleep, or something that gives you a nice warm belly, so you just want to sit and be lethargic for the rest of the day. It is a stronger word than that. Originally in English the word comfort, it comes from a compound of two words, with strength. Comfort with strength. That's the idea of bringing help, bringing a good resource, a good help to someone who is in need And that is the word before us today. It's double, it's emphasized twice, it's a command, and that's where we're going to be looking today, is what is this comfort and where does it come from? Comfort. So what does If we get beyond comfort food and comfortable pillows and a comfortable pair of shoes or comfortable slippers, and we get into actually what brings you comfort when you are in distress, how would you answer that question? Where do you go for comfort when you are distressed or stressed out or overwhelmed by sorrow or anxiety or fear or anger or frustration. Where do you go for comfort? Seems to me that when we're in distress, there are two kinds of comfort we might seek out. One is a comfort of distraction. Help me to just forget about this for a while. That's when we might sit down and binge watch something on Netflix or scroll through YouTube shorts. Not that I've ever done that, but how is it that a series of one-minute videos you can spend like an hour watching? So there's the comfort of distraction, just take my mind off. I don't want to think about it. I want to just escape, right? But then there's the comfort that actually helps. There's the comfort that actually gives us strength, that actually puts heart into us, that actually helps us face and bear up under and persevere through the difficulty. The rest of Isaiah is it really is written with the primary audience of the people who were sent into exile. So it's unique among Old Testament prophets in that The primary intended audience for this part of Isaiah is not going to be around for 120, 150 years after Isaiah's time. It's people who are in exile. It's the people who are cut off from the Holy Land and they are away in exile and they're looking for, they are desperate for comfort. Some Bible critics, of course, have said, well, that means Isaiah didn't write chapters 40 to 66. It was written by somebody else many, many years later, and they call it Deutero Isaiah and assign a different author to it. We believe in the inspiration of Scripture, we believe in the inerrancy of Scripture. The New Testament quotes from the first part of Isaiah and from the second part of Isaiah and quotes it all as being from the prophet Isaiah, and every evidence we have is that it was all written by the same Isaiah. prophet, but he wrote this as a word for later generations. But not just for those exiles. It's not just for that exile generation. It's for everyone who is defeated Dejected, feeling cast off and cast out, or disowned, or disfavored. Does any of that apply to any of us Yes. And so it is a word of comfort for God's people. Comfort, comfort, my people, says your God. It's a command. Isaiah is being commanded twice with urgency. You must Bring comfort to my people. How is he going to do that? Well, he's going to do that by speaking, by proclaiming a message of good news, and then by calling. the people of God to then spread that message of good news. Look at look at this flow of this in Isaiah 40 with me Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her, that her warfare is ended. That's verse 2. Then look at verse 3. A voice cries in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord And then look at verse 6, which we'll get to next week. A voice says, cry, and I said, What shall I cry? The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. And then look at verse nine. Now Isaiah is talking to the people of God. Go on up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news, lift up your voice with strength O Jerusalem, herald of good news, lift it up, fear not, say to the cities of Judah, behold your God. See, this is very intensely. The way that comfort is brought to the people of God is through the proclamation of the Word of God. The way we get comfort is not by more money being put in our bank account. It's not by winning an election. It's not by, you know, whatever. Seeing some funny post on social media or seeing some really inspiring post on social media, the way comfort, real comfort comes to God's people is by the proclamation of the Word of God, and specifically the proclamation of the gospel. It is the good news. This is the good news. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem. A tender message. because it's directed at those who are broken and in need of comfort and cry to her. That is a proclamation, a a an announcement to be proclaimed loudly and confidently. And this is what it is. Her warfare is ended Her iniquity is pardoned. She has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. Iniquity, pardoned. That means all your sin, all your wickedness, all your rebellion, pardoned, forgiven. Warfare ended. That means peace has come. So there is shalom, there's peace, and there is pardon. Peace and pardon. That's good news. If you were in exile and you were suffering and you were looking for comfort, and you knew that the reason why you were in exile was because of the sins of many generations of God's people, if the word comes to you The warfare is over. God is no longer angry with you. Your sin has all been forgiven. You have peace and you have pardon. That is good news. Now, the reason for that good news is the line here in verse 2 that is difficult to interpret properly. She has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. What does that mean? One way to look at that is to say, well, God's forgiven all your sin, and God's at peace with you, is no longer angry with you, because he has punished you as much as you deserve. So the punishment you've been given is enough, and so peace and pardon, and you're going to be restored to the land. And I do think that may be part of what was in view, but there's a greater need And that is not that she's received from the Lord's hand in terms of punishment, but she has received from the Lord's hand in terms of peace and pardon. Double for all her sins. So she's received good pardon, forgiveness, grace, mercy from the Lord, double for all her sins. Now, there's an argument to be made for each one of those interpretations. There is a measuredness to God's disciplinary judgment on his people. When God disciplines his people, it is suitable, it is measured, it is purposeful, it is not unrestrained, and that is good news for us. Okay And God had told his people when they were going into exile, he said very specifically, you're going to be in exile for 70 years. And here's why. Because every seven years, you were supposed to give the land rest for a Sabbath. It's been four hundred and ninety years that you've had a king to enforce the law and you've never once kept the Sabbath. By my count, that's seventy Sabbaths. So I'm going to give the land seventy years of rest from you rebellious people. You're going to go into exile for 70 years. And it was 70 years. So God was measured. So in a sense, he's received from the Lord's hand, this would be double means that which matches The sin of the Sabbath breaking is the sin of the exile is the consequence of the exile. But there's more to it than that. And the reason why we know there's more to it than that is that the very next verse, verse 3, is a prophecy of the coming of John the Baptist. All four Gospels tell us. John the Baptist himself, as well as the Gospel writers, tell us that verse 3, a voice cries in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, is a prophecy of the coming of John the Baptist. We also know because This is the beginning of 40 to 66. And you go to the middle and you find chapter 53, and chapter 53 says, he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The chastisement that brought us peace was laid upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. The pardon and the peace only comes when Jesus comes. And there, I think the right interpretation is we've received double for all our sins. from the atoning work of Jesus Christ. What does that mean, double for all our sins? Well Augustus Topoli, the old hymn writer, when he wrote Rock of Ages. He wrote it this way, be of sin, the double cure, cleanse me of its guilt and power. So the atonement of Christ cleanses us. of the guilt of sin and breaks the power of sin to dominate our lives. Another way to look at it, the memory verse we've been using in Sunday school, by the way, if you're not in the habit of coming to Sunday school, I'm going to make another plug Because this morning in Sunday school, we heard from Malachi, and Isaiah and Malachi are the only two places in the Old Testament where we get very clear prophecies of John the Baptist And so we heard about John the Baptist, the prophecy of that, and also in our memory verse, we hear about the double cleansing. Because we have two problems that sin creates in our lives. Sin makes us guilty legally, but sin also makes us unclean. It makes us defiled. It makes us dirty. So we need to be forgiven and we need to be cleansed. And Jesus' death does that. It forgives the guilt of our sins, so we're no longer condemned, so God can say you're not guilty, but it also cleanses us of the iniquity of our sin, for iniquity is pardoned. That's wickedness, that's filth. Okay? God washes that away so that we can have access to his presence we can be holy, we can be clean. Jesus does this And so the double from the Lord's hand that we receive is the double pardon, the double cure, cleansing of guilt, breaking of power, cleansing of guilt, cleansing from sin. That is the good news, and that comes only through Jesus. The reason why it's vague and the reason why it's tied into the exile, I think, is just an interesting way that God tells the story of his dealing with his people in a way that only God could. The more you study the Bible, and the more you understand the connections between the Old Testament and the New Testament, or between the promise and the fulfillment, between the anticipation and the delivery. The more you understand, more connections, the more you see that only God could have done this. I mean you go to a place like Isaiah 53 and you realize, what in the world this is clearly talking about Jesus dying on the cross for the sins of his people, and it was written seven hundred years before Jesus was even born. Only God could have done that You go to Psalm 22 that we looked at on uh Monday Thursday, and it's clearly talking about the suffering of Jesus on the cross and what he physically experienced and the anguish of being forsaken by God spiritually. and it was written a thousand years before it was born, only God could have done that. But in other things too. And that is there are two great events, two great events in the history of Israel as the people of God. One is the Exodus. Coming out, and then the exile, being sent out and restored. So really the story of the nation of Israel in the Old Testament is bracketed from Exodus to exile. That's the whole Old Testament. In the Exodus, how is it that the people get out of Egypt safely? Central to that story is Passover and the blood of the Passover lamb, who marks out God's people. You had to sacrifice the spotless lamb. Put the blood on the doorpost and the lintel of your house, the blood of the spotless lamb would mark you out as being the people of God, and God's judgment would pass over you. That's Jesus. And then in the exile, what happens in the exile? The people are cut off from the presence of God, from the glory of God, they're banished, they're sent away, and then they're restored. What happens to Jesus? on the cross. Well, Isaiah 53 tells us he was cut off for our transgressions. He was cut off. He said, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Because he was cut off and he was sent away to death. buried in the grave and then restored. Then he came back. So even in the very warp and woof of the story of Israel, you have an anticipation of the coming of Christ in a way that only God can do that And it it's everywhere. It's every chapter, it's every line, it's every page of the Old Testament that that hints at Christ's coming and shows it through ceremonies and through priests and through kings and through laws. And through promises and through prophecies and through ceremonies, it's all over. And here it comes. In fulfillment, in verses 3 to 5. What God's people have needed? What God's people still need is God Himself. We said it earlier when we confessed our faith together. We said, what is your only comfort in life and in death? Now in America, There is nothing more un-American than the answer that we all gave to that question. What is your only comfort in life and in death that I am, not my own? But I belong body and soul in life and in death to my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. That's it. That's my comfort. And here's the comfort here in Isaiah 40 is expressed this way. What's going to bring real pardon? What's going to bring real peace? What's going to bring a double from the Lord's hand for all of our sins? Only one person could do that, and that is God Himself has to come. to the rescue. A voice cries in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, every mountain and hill be made low, the uneven ground become level, the rough place is a plain, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together. for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. God Himself has to come to the rescue because only God is powerful enough to do what needs to be done to secure peace. And it's very clear that God is coming. John the Baptist, when he was asked by the people Who are you? What account do you give of yourself? He said, I'm the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, which they should have known. Look at Isaiah 40. What's he talking about? Prepare the way of the Lord. He means God is coming. And then when Jesus comes, John the Baptist says to him, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, he says, I'm one is coming after me. Who's actually before me, who's so much greater than I that I'm not even worthy to stoop down and untie the laces of his sandals What does that mean? We know humanly speaking Jesus was actually younger than John by six months, but he says, one comes after me, came into the world after John, came into ministry after John, but he was actually before John And he's so much greater than John that John's not even worthy to untie his sandal straps. And yet Jesus said of John the Baptist, of all men born of women, no one was greater than John. So who is this who's so much greater than John? Well, Isaiah already told us the Lord, our God, he's coming. And yet it was so unbelievable, it was so unexpected, that no one would believe it. And when Jesus said things like before Abraham was, I am, they said, He's blaspheming When Jesus said things like, unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. They said he's blaspheming. He's claiming to be God. He wasn't claiming, he was just telling you what it was But they wouldn't believe it. They wouldn't believe it. They missed the heart of what God had promised very clearly in his word. God knew that to rescue his people, to bring us salvation, he himself would have to step into the world and bring us what we needed. Isaiah 40, 1-5, as much as God's people wouldn't believe it, is the God of the universe, the God who framed the world by the very word of his power, saying, What my people need is something that no one in the world can provide. Abraham couldn't do it, Moses couldn't do it, David couldn't do it, Solomon couldn't do it, Isaiah couldn't do it. All of these other characters, they're just not sufficient. I am going to have to write myself into the story. And he steps into time and space. Because he loved his people so much that he knew it was the only way to give us freedom, to give us peace, and to give us pardon God knew that he alone could fix it, but that to fix it would cost him everything, and that was a price he was willing to pay because of how much he loves us. So don't ever think that whatever's going on in your life is too hard because God said if I have to write myself into the story to fix it, I will. And don't ever think That God doesn't love you or isn't committed to you because he said, if it costs me everything, I will pay the price. We are never without hope. Earlier in Isaiah chapter 35, God had revealed the glorious future that he had planned for his people. And now, starting in Isaiah 40, he's going to be unfolding exactly how he's going to bring that glorious future about. If you want to flip back a little bit, it's Isaiah 35, verses 8 through 10. We looked at this a few weeks ago. It's the last chapter before you get to the history section. Back in 35, 8 to 10 it says, and a highway shall be there. It shall be called the way of holiness. The unclean shall not pass over it. It shall belong to those who walk on the way. Even if they are fools, they shall not go astray. No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast come upon it. They shall not be found there. But the ransomed shall walk there, and the redeemed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing, everlasting joy shall be upon their heads. They shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. God says, I'm going to set up a highway, I'm going to set up a way. I'm going to call it the way of holiness. And it's going to be for those who belong to me. Now who said, I am the way? We walk in Jesus and we follow Jesus and he protects us. There is a lion seeking who he may devour, but if you're following Jesus, he cannot get you. You will be kept even if you're a fool. Can I get an amen? You will be kept and you'll be led all the way to Zion and when you get to Zion, everlasting joy. All the sorrows, all the tribulations, all the Sleepless nights of wondering if your loved ones are going to make it through the night at the hospital. All the phone calls from the doctors that say the cancer you thought you would beat is back. All the hard conversations with loved ones who are walking away from the Lord, all of our concern will be gone. It'll be remembered like a dream. It will all come untrue. Everlasting joy will be on our heads. We will obtain gladness and joy and sorrow and sighing will flee away. To bring us there required nothing less than the cross. Because no one other than the Lord could make satisfaction to set us free from the condemnation of our sin and our bondage to death, and God did what God alone can do. In your life today, in my life today, God can do and will do what God alone can do. Sometimes we take it on ourselves because we think, I've got to figure this out, I've got to make this happen, I've got to solve it. No. Cast your burdens on the Lord because He cares for you. Follow Jesus Give thanks. Trust God. Walk in the way of holiness. God will do what God alone can do. We'll talk more about that next week. When we talk about the arm of the Lord. Earthly comforts, I enjoy them. They're fun. And those things are also a gift from God. But we can't confuse the gift from the giver. And we can't look for eternal comfort in things that are ultimately temporary and fleeting. Only the glory of God coming to redeem us in Christ Jesus is eternal, secure, and truly satisfying. And I pray that every one of us would trust the Lord for that comfort today and every day of our lives, until we are face to face in everlasting joy and gladness. Amen. Thank you so much for joining us here on Rooted and Reaching, the Radio Ministry of Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, in Harford County, Maryland. We gather for worship every Sunday morning at 1030 and we welcome you to join us for worship if you live in the Harford County area and you're looking for a church home. If you have questions about our church, you can find more information on On our website, Forest HillPCA. org. That's Forest HillPCA. org. If you have specific questions, comments, or feedback about the sermon you've just heard, you can email me, pastor at foresthillpca. org. That's pastor at Forest HillPCA. org. The PCA stands for Presbyterian Church in America. May the Lord bless you and keep you as you continue to be rooted in His Word and reaching His. Is worrying