Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you here. We're in our 25th week together in the Gospels. On our second day of this 25th week, we're in Luke chapter 10, looking at verses 21 to 42, and asking. What might seem like an obvious question, but still an important one. Is salvation something we are given or something we earn? Is salvation something we are given or something we earn? Let's pray Heavenly Father, gracious God and King, please be our teacher today from your word. Please write your word on our hearts. Help us to grow in our love for you, and help us to follow Jesus. We pray this in his name. Amen. Luke ten twenty one In that same hour, he rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, I thank you, Father. Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, or who the Father is, except the Son, and any one to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Then turning to the disciples, he said privately, Blessed are the eyes that see what you see, for I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see and did not see it, and to hear what you hear and did not hear it. And behold a lawyer stood up to put him to the test, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said to him, What is written in the law? How do you read it? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And he said to him, You have answered correctly Do this, and you will live. But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor Jesus replied, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving him half dead. Now, by chance a priest was going down that road, and when we s when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a Samaritan As he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion. He went to him and bound up his wounds. pouring on oil and wine, then he set him on his own animal, and brought him to an inn and took care of him. And the next day he took out two deneri and gave them to the innkeeper, saying, Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, I will repay you when I come back. Which of these three do you think? Proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers? He said, The one who showed him mercy. And Jesus said to him, You go and do likewise. Now, as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her, then, to help me. But the Lord answered her, Martha, Martha You are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her That is Luke chapter 10, verses 21 to 42. And just as an aside, before we get into our lesson for today, I love the picture of the Trinity in verse 21. In that same hour, he, Jesus, rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them. to little children. Yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. Here we have God the Son, Jesus Christ, rejoicing in the go the Holy Spirit, God the Holy Spirit, and praying to God the Father. Jesus was empowered by the Holy Spirit, and he lived for the glory of the Father, and that shows Jesus is fully God, the Spirit is fully God, the Father is fully God, and yet they are three persons Who are one God. Alright, now back to our main topic. Is salvation something we are given or something we earn? What's the difference? What distinguishes someone who is grateful for what God has given and revealed and someone who is discontented and still striving to justify himself? In today's reading in Luke, Jesus clearly proclaims the wonderful grace of God and salvation, first in a prayer to his Father, that we just looked at, verse 21 and 22, and then a private statement to his disciples. In his prayer, Jesus says very clearly that God has hidden the truths of salvation from some people, the wise and understanding, and has revealed them to other people, little children. He then tells his disciples that they are greatly blessed to be able to see and hear the things they have seen and heard. It is clear that Jesus views knowing Him and seeing His kingdom as great blessings given by the grace of His Heavenly Father Jesus' view of salvation is immediately contrasted by a man who desires to justify himself And then by Martha, anxious and troubled by many things. First, a man asks Jesus, Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? The flaw in his question is obvious. He thinks eternal life is something to be earned, the kind of thing you do something to inherit. Since he's thinking this way, Jesus pushes him toward the law, hoping to humble him to the point where he will see his need for saving grace, but he's still trapped in the bonds of legalism, wanting to justify himself. And so he asks Jesus, Who is my neighbor? He's hoping to get the requirements of the law down to a manageable task. When Jesus tells this man the story of the Good Samaritan, he is showing him what a transformed heart and life look like. In the story, the priest and the Levite were concerned about their legal obligations for cleanliness, and they failed to love their neighbor. Only the Samaritan, already an unclean outcast, has the evidence of a changed heart that overflows with mercy to others And after Jesus tells this story, we see Martha busily slaving away, serving Jesus. She resents the fact that her sister Mary is content to sit at the feet of Jesus and learn from him. The problem with Martha is that she thought her service to Jesus was more important than learning from him. She had not learned the contentment of resting at his feet and listening. And so she was distracted with much serving and was anxious and troubled about many things. Mary, on the other hand, knew that only one thing is necessary. And so Jesus said she had chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. If we understand that salvation is a gift to be received and not earned. And Given, not deserved. That understanding, that grace received will transform our hearts But if we're seeking to justify ourselves or we're distracted with much serving, we remain restless, discontented, and anxious Those whose hearts are freed by grace are filled with mercy for others and a longing to learn more from Jesus They bind up the wounds of the fallen, and they sit at the feet of their Savior, not because they're doing so to earn salvation, but because they know how blessed they are. Amen. Well, we're going to turn our attention to the Psalms now. We're going to go back to Psalm 119. We've got two more days in this longest of all the Psalms. Today we're going to be looking at verses 121 to 152. I have done what is just and right. Do not leave me to my oppressors. Give your servant a pledge of good. Let not the insolent oppress me. My eyes long for your salvation and for the fulfillment of your righteous promise. Deal with your servant, according to your steadfast love, and teach me your statutes. I am your servant. Give me understanding that I may know your testimonies. It is time for the Lord to act, for your law has been broken. Therefore, I love your commandments above gold, above fine gold. Therefore, I consider all your precepts to be right. I hate every false way. Your testimonies are wonderful. Therefore my soul keeps them. The unfolding of your words gives light. It imparts understanding to the simple. I open my mouth and pant, because I long for your commandments. Turn to me and be gracious to me. as is your way with those who love your name. Keep steady my steps according to your promise, and let no iniquity get dominion over me. Redeem me. from man's oppression, that I may keep your precepts, make your face shine upon your servant, and teach me your statutes My eyes shed streams of tears, because people do not keep your law. Righteous are you, O Lord, and right are your rules You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness. My zeal consumes me because my foes forget your words. Your promise is well tried, and your servant loves it. I am small and despised, and I do not, yet I do not forget your precepts Your righteousness is righteous forever, and your law is true. Trouble and anguish have found me out. But your commandments are my delight, your testimonies are righteous forever. Give me understanding that I may live. With my whole heart I cry. Answer me, O Lord, I will keep your statutes. I will call to you, save me, that I may observe your testimonies I rise before dawn and cry for help. I hope in your words my eyes are awake before the watches of the night that I may meditate on your promise. Hear my voice. According to your steadfast love, O Lord, according to your justice, give me life. They draw near, who persecute me with evil purpose They are far from your law, but you are near, O Lord, and all your commandments are true. Lord, I have known from your testimonies that you have founded them forever. God's word is is wonderful. And I love particularly verses 123 and 124. My eyes long for your salvation and for the fulfillment of your righteous promise. Deal with your servant according to your steadfast love and teach me your statutes. Notice, he's not looking for a salvation that comes from his own righteousness. But from the God's steadfast love, from God's righteous promise. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you. Your righteous promise is fulfilled in the salvation that is given in Jesus Christ. And that's revealed to us by your grace as you open our eyes to show us the truth. You show us the truth because you love us. And it's your love, it's your steadfast love that is our hope in this life and for all eternity. Please lead us in gratitude, in humility, in joy, and in graciousness toward others, knowing that what we have we've received by your grace and not by merit. So may we never treat others according to what we think they deserve, but rather according to how you've treated us with abundant grace and kindness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you can join us again tomorrow as we go into Luke 11. Have a blessed day in the Lord.