Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I hope you're doing well this morning. We are here in the fifth week of our Catechism Devotionals and we're wrestling with the question of guilt. As God is extending to us gospel comfort by moving us from guilt through grace to gratitude. And in these early weeks, it it honestly might feel like we've been in guilt for a while, but we really do need to let this message sink in because we live in such a culture and we have such a a deceitful heart and we just want to sort of wiggle our way out of the conviction that the law of God and the justice of God brings it. So we can't do that. We must hear what God has spoken. Let's pray. We'll look to the Lord together today. Father in heaven, our most gracious God. You are amazing. There's no doubt what we deserve. What you've given us in Christ instead is beyond imagination. Speak to us through your word by the power of your Holy Spirit today. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right. We are going to be doing uh We're going to be doing question number 12 today, but first we're going to review question number 11. But is God not also merciful? God is indeed merciful, but he is also just. His justice requires that sin committed against the most holy, sorry, the most high majesty of God also be punished with the most severe, that is, with everlasting punishment of body and soul. This is what we talked about last time. God's mercy must be just. Just as God's justice is also merciful, the attributes of God always always go together. And the justice of God requires everlasting punishment for this most severe crime, the most severe justice that we've committed against the most high God. So Question 12 then says, since according to God's righteous judgment we deserve temporal and eternal punishment How can we escape this punishment and be again received into favor? And here's where we start getting movement toward. It's going to be slow, it's going to be gradual, it's going to be intentional, it's going to be incremental, but we're starting to slowly get movement toward the solution of grace. Because again, we have this, how can we be received again into his favor? And favor is another way to talk about the grace of God. The answer is that God demands that his justice be satisfied Therefore, we must make full payment, either by ourselves or through another. So Can we get into God's favor again? Only if full payment is made, either by ourselves or And here's the grace, through another. God does allow for a substitute. And that's what we're going to be looking at in these coming days. Hebrews 10, 28 to 31. Remember we talked about this last time. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment do you think will be deserved by the one who's trampled underfoot the Son of God and profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of grace For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, and the Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Why is this repeated again today? Well, today I want to look at this part about um Worse punishment will be deserved by the one who has trampled underfoot the Son of God, because either we have to pay or another can pay The other who has paid, we know already, even though the catechism hasn't brought us there yet explicitly, but we know the other one who has paid is the Son of God, is Jesus Christ, is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He's the one. His blood of the covenant that he poured out for us for the forgiveness of sins is the other, right? And so if we reject the other, if we say no thank you to Jesus, And we spurn him. In this case, in the book of Hebrews, the temptation was: these are Jewish background believers, and they were just going to sort of sink back into Judaism, go back to the synagogue. come back under the law of Moses and reject Jesus as their mediator, as their covenant mediator, as their substitute. And so it it becomes Okay, we must make full payment either by ourselves or through another. Here's the other who's made the payment. And if you reject him, then you must make the punish the payment yourself. Romans 5, uh sorry, Romans 2, 5 and 6 says, but because of your hard and impenitent heart You are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his work. So without a substitute savior, you're saying, okay, I'm going to have God judge me according to my own work. And all these questions are designed to strip away the idea where we can answer and say, yeah, but I'm basically a good person. Yeah, but you know, I'm I'm a good up upstanding law-abiding citizen. I pay my taxes, I'm faithful to my spouse, I do the best I can And what God's Word is telling us is, whoa, slow down, back up. You do the best you can, really, because it's not good. And maybe there is a corrupt and a vile sinful nature there that keeps you from doing better, but you have to do better. You're required to do better by the God of the universe who doesn't accept Pathetic half-hearted efforts, which really as long as it's an effort of self-righteousness, is really a negative effort because it's rejecting what God has given. So we have hard and impenitent hearts on our own, apart from Christ, apart from the Holy Spirit, bringing us to Jesus and breaking our hearts and making them new. We have hard and impenitent hearts by nature. And we store up wrath for ourselves on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment is revealed. However, however, however, however I love it. R. C. Sprohl, great theologian, pastor, teacher, said the most powerful word in the Bible is but or however. Or nevertheless, or yet. It's that hinge, it's that turning point. But Isaiah 53. 11 is true. Out of the anguish of his soul, Jesus, he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous. And he shall bear their iniquities. Here's the Lord God Almighty telling us all about the Savior to come, 700 years before he was born, through the prophet Isaiah. And yes, we have copies of the scroll of Isaiah. We have a copy of it that predates Jesus by 150 years. But it was originally given 700 years before Jesus was born, and it's telling us, God is telling us, there is a righteous one, there is the righteous one, one righteous. Who fulfilled all the law, who was without sin, never offended against God, never wronged his neighbor, ever, always did what was right, completely, from the heart. sincerely and perfectly his whole life long. He is the righteous one, the servant of God, and he makes many to be accounted righteous. Because he bears their iniquities. So there's the substitute. We needed it. Either we make full payment ourselves, or another makes payment for us. And Isaiah 53. 11 tells us of the other. The other who makes payment for us, praise God. And here is Romans 8, 3 and 4. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do by sending his own son. In the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that The righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. That's the gospel. That's the good news. That's the the another who makes the payment. Jesus on the cross was made to be sin for us. Sin was condemned in his flesh for us, so that we might have the righteous requirement of the law fulfilled in us, not because of what we did, but because of what he did. He did the good work of fulfilling the righteous requirement of the law, and he did the hard work of taking on himself the just punishment for our sins. And that is gospel hope. There is no one else who's done that. Muhammad didn't do that. Buddha didn't do that. No one else has done it but the Lord Jesus Christ. And so either his payment counts for us, or we're going to stand before God on our own and our hardened and penitent hearts. will have stored up wrath for us on the day of wrath. So what's it going to be? Stand on your own two feet or flee to Jesus? Let's pray. Well Lord God, thank you that there is another. Justice demands punishment, payment, satisfaction. You are not a corrupt judge. Justice must be upheld. We're so thankful that Jesus upheld it for us. We're so thankful that Jesus took it all on himself in our place. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, let's respond now to this good news from God with a wonderful hymn. There is a fountain filled with blood. There is a found filled with blood drawn from emanquels faith and things. Pinsay And sinus touch before. The time choice is the foundation. And there have I no violence was drawn my things away. Was store my thing the way, was still my thing the way. Have I no idea was told my things do? His heart till all the round subject. Be fair to stay well, be careful. All the sunshine got bear to single. I think I saw the stream. I flown stood Reaming love has been my team and shadow beam And shall be shilling God and shall be chill by God. And shall we tell you?