All right. Isaiah forty eight, verses one through eleven, hear the word of God. Hear this. O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and who came from the waters of Judah. who swear by the name of the Lord and confess the God of Israel, but not in truth or right. For they call themselves after the holy city and stay themselves on the God of Israel. The Lord of hosts is his name. The former things I declared of old. They went out from my mouth and I announced them. Then suddenly I did them and they came to pass. Because I know that you are obstinate, and in your neck, and your neck is an iron sinew, and your forehead brass. I declared them to you from of old. Before they came to pass, I announced them to you, lest you should say, My idol did them, my carved image, and my metal image commanded them. You have heard. Now see all this. And will you not declare it? From this time forth I announce to you new things, hidden things that you have not known. They are created now, not long ago. Before today you've never heard of them, lest you should say, Behold, I knew them You have never heard. You have never known. From of old your ear has not been opened, for I knew that you would surely deal treacherously and that from before birth you were called a rebel. For my name's sake I defer my anger For the sake of my praise I restrain it for you, that I may not cut you off. Behold, I have refined you. but not as silver. I have tried you in the furnace of affliction for my own sake. For my own sake I do it. For how should my name be profaned? My glory I will not give. To another. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are glorious, powerful, all-knowing. You see the end from the beginning, and you see the heart. the hidden heart of every person. You know us thoroughly, and you know what you have planned for us. And you are gracious to us. So be gracious to us this morning and speak to us from Isaiah 48. Build up our faith, strengthen our hope. Our confidence in you, wean us off of our addiction to ourselves or to reliance on the things of the world, that we might grow in faith and grow in the strength of your grace at work We pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. When we've gone to Uganda to teach pastors, We try to make sure that when we go, we're being very clear about foundational gospel issues as well as training in more sort of advanced systematic theology, church history, preaching, and things like that, because you know the worst thing you could do is make someone very, very skilled at doing something When they don't understand the basic message that it is that they're supposed to believe and to preach. I'm reminded of how in church history, uh John Wesley Was not saved when he became a pastor. And he was pastoring at a church actually in Savannah, Georgia. He was pastoring and he was dejected and downhearted and he left that church and went back to England because he didn't really know the Lord. He wasn't saved. Saved is a word that we kind of throw around a lot in Christian circles. One of the books that we teach to cover foundational things in Uganda, we teach a little book by R. C. Spurl called Saved from What And the book title, Saved from What, comes from a conversation that Dr. Sprohl had with a college student on a college campus, very young, enthusiastic believer, who came up to him and said, Sir Are you saved? And he said, Saved from what? The young man looked at him and was puzzled and really didn't know how to answer the question, saved. from what? But if you don't know what you're saved from, and you don't know how it is that you're going to get saved, then, you know, I think the young man just said, you know, saved. Well, what what do you mean by that? So at the heart of this question, saved from what, are it's two big questions underlying it. First of all, what is our biggest problem? And then second of all, how can we have hope in the face of that biggest problem? What do we need to most be rescued from? And really the whole point Of R. C. Sperl's book, Saved from What, is he gets just a little bit deeper than most Christians would get in their answer to that question to help us understand what we are saved from. Of course, most Christians, if you said saved from what, probably the answer would be, well, I'm saved from my sin. That's great. But why is your sin such a problem that you need to be saved from it? What danger does your sin pose to you? And ultimately the danger that our sin poses to us. Is the eternal wrath of God. Because God is just and holy. He must and will punish all sin. If we are not saved from our sin, we are not saved from the wrath of God. And that's really where today's passage focuses. At the end, you can see The verse, the last three verses here is where I got the title for the message. The title for the message today is Saved for the Sake of His Name. And it says in the end in verse 9, for my name's sake I defer my anger For the sake of my praise, I restrain it from you, that I may not cut you off. And then again he says in verse 11, For my own sake, for my own sake, for how should my name be profaned, my glory I will not give to another. So I put the word saved in the title of the sermon, saved for his name's sake, but really what it's talking about, saved from what? Saved from the anger of God, from the wrath of God. That we deserve. Why would these people, why would God's people deserve his wrath? Why would he have to refrain it and restrain it? Well, you go back to the very beginning of the passage. And what's the first thing that we learn about these people in the first two verses of chapter 48? We learn. that they are that most maligned and despised category of people, they are hypocrites. Isn't that what people say about Christians and about church? Oh, I Christians are just hypocrites. And of course we get defensive when we hear them say, oh no, no, no, no. We're not all hypocrites. I wonder if we responded and said, You're right. We are But God has mercy even on hypocrites. Look at verses 1 and 2 with me again. Hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel. And who came from the waters of Judah, who swear by the name of the Lord and confess the God of Israel, but not in truth or right. For they call themselves after the holy city and stay themselves on the God of Israel. The Lord of hosts is his name. First thing he says is, he says, Hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel. Now, we hear these names and sometimes we forget the significance behind them. God is saying who you are is you are the house of Jacob, even though you're called by the name of Israel. There's a lot of significance What what what does that mean? Well remember Jacob was the patriarch, he was the father of the twelve tribes of Israel, and he was the one whose name was changed from Jacob to Israel after he had his encounter with God and wrestled with God all night long. Jacob was his former name. And it's a name that means usurper or deceiver, one who supplants, because he wanted to take his older brother's place and take the blessing And he tricked his father into giving him the blessing. He was named Jacob. That's a name of sin. It's a name of deceit. After God wrestled with him all night, God changed his name to Israel, which means one who strives with God. It's the name of blessing. It's the name of his new identity. God is telling his people, you have the name of the new identity, but the heart reality of the old deceiver. You are the house of Jacob, even though you're called by the name of Israel. Because you swear by the name of the Lord, you confess the God of Israel, you even stay yourselves on the God of Israel. He says, but not in truth or right. What does that mean? They're making a profession of faith, but they don't actually possess true, life-giving faith in their hearts. They are claiming the name of the Lord. They have the external name of the Lord, but they are not. truly trusting God. They're trusting, oh, that because they're God's people, God will protect them. In fact, we know that they were trusting that because the Lord's temple was in Jerusalem, they could say, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, meaning the Lord's never going to allow his temple to be ransacked, and so we're going to be safe. So this is a combination now of two bad, bad sins, and that is the sin of hypocrisy and the sin of presumption. They're not only hypocritical, they're not really who they claim to be, but they're also presuming on the grace of God. The good news of the gospel is that there is hope, even for such sinners as that. And we need to be thankful because we are all capable of being sinners. like that. We are all capable of pretending to be better than we are. In fact I'd say we're pretty good at it. We're pretty good at sort of, yes. I am a pastor of a church, and I am a faithful man of God. And of course there's truth to that, right? But there's also some hypocrisy because I know that I don't always live up. To my profession. That which I profess to be true, and that which I do sincerely believe in my heart, does not always guide my thoughts, my words, and my actions the way that I know it should I sometimes can be guilty of saying something and then doing something different or desiring different And presuming upon the grace of God, presuming, well, of course everything's going to be okay. I'm a child of God That's presumption. Some people even take it so far as to put promises in the mouth of God. To say, well, if I'm a Christian and I'm a child of God, he's going to protect me from any real suffering or any real tribulation. All I need to do is claim it in the name of Jesus. Well, that's a false promise. This is the same kind of false promise the people of Israel have where they said The temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. In other words, Jerusalem is never going to be destroyed because the Lord has put his temple here. When God had told them through the prophets, I'm going to destroy this city and I'm going to destroy this temple because you have profaned it. There is hope. There's hope for hypocrites. There's hope for people who presume on the grace of God. And that is good news for all of us. Most of us, I would say, before we came to true faith in Christ. We thought we were Christians. How many of you were in that category? Like, I I thought I was a believer. I went to church. Somebody asked me, I would have said, Yeah, I'm a Christian. But there was no real deep internal change in my heart. I was really a hypocrite. But God had mercy. God had mercy. In verses 3 to 8 of our passage, we see how much God sees. How much God knows. God knows everything. God knows the end from the beginning. He says, the former things I've declared of old. They went out from my mouth. I announced them. Suddenly I did them. They came to pass. Because, why would he do this? Why would he tell them ahead of time what he's going to do? Because I know that you are obstinate and your neck is an iron sinew. We think back to earlier chapters in Isaiah. Years earlier, the prophet Isaiah had said to King Ahaz when the Assyrians were, when, when Syria and uh Israel, the northern tribes of Israel and then the kingdom of Syria These two were in an alliance and they were coming after Israel. And King Ahaz was a wicked king and he didn't really trust the Lord, but he was trying to scheme. as to how he could possibly get out of this. And remember in Isaiah 7, Isaiah comes to King Ahaz and says, ask the Lord for a sign that he's on your side. And he's going to deliver you. And King Ahaz real hypocrisy pretends to be super religious. Oh, I would not put the Lord to the test. When really what he's doing is he's sending an envoy up to the Assyrian Empire to come to their rescue. And God is saying, Don't do that. And you have that and you have later when Hezekiah is king and the Assyrians whom Ahaz it given money to, they decide, hey, this place has got a lot of wealth. It sounds like a pretty good target. And so they come down to get Jerusalem. And Isaiah tells Hezekiah, don't worry about it. Worry about it. They're they're not gonna come. But before Hezekiah believes and makes his stand, he sends treasure down to Egypt to try to get Egypt to come to help. And finally he realizes this was foolish and he cries out to the Lord. And the Lord does exactly what he says he's going to do. This was a while ago that we were in these early chapters of Isaiah, but remember God even said in specific detail, the Assyrians are going to come in, they're going to conquer this city, this city, this city, this city, this city, and they're going to get to this point and they're going to stop, and They won't go any further. And that's exactly what happened. God had done all of this ahead of time. Now, finally, he had said, You're going to go into exile. The Babylonians are going to conquer Judah and Jerusalem, and you're going to be taken off. And these chapters, although they're given by Isaiah before the exile even takes place, they're really written for those people who are in exile, so that they can look back and they can say, read the rest of this book. Look at how for decade after decade I was telling you exactly what was going to happen before it happened and then it happened. Why am I doing that? Because you're thick-headed. That's what he says. Your neck is an iron sinew, that means you're stubborn, and your forehead is brass. You're thick-headed. You just, you're determined to do your own thing your way in the way that makes sense to you. And so I had to tell you this. Otherwise you probably would have credited your idols or credited your own political skill. You would have taken all the credit away from me, but I need you to know that I'm the one who keeps my word And now I'm going to tell you something even more new, and this is where he's referring to Cyrus that we've heard about so much. Here's a mistake we can make. We can make a mistake of saying, well, God said all these things in the Bible. He told all these things in the Bible. advance because he was trying to work with his people back then and he was in control of those things, those sort of big things. But my life My life is so small and inconsequential, God's probably not all that concerned with or necessarily ruling over all the details of my life. So I have justification to be anxious because yeah, God takes care of the big things with the nations and everything, but my own health or my own family or my own future. Maybe that's just not important enough to be on God's radar screen. Think for a moment of all of the little things that God had to be in control of in order to bring about the big things that he foretold. How many details have to fall in line for there to be a Persian Empire and a king named Cyrus? Who defeats the Babylonians and who then issues an edict and a decree. And for him to be able to tell all of that 170 years ahead of time, how many details, how many people's lives, how many Little things have to line up just right. God is in charge of the big things. Because he's also in charge of the little things. Because the big things are made up of the little things, and God rules over all things. In Ephesians 1, verses 9 to 11, God says this. The Apostle Paul says that God made known to us the mystery of his will. According to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. Do you catch that double reference to all things? God has a plan to unite all things in Christ, and God works all things according to the counsel of his will. And that means all. Things. Some things are very easily predictable. God's in charge of those too. Like earlier when I set down a cup of coffee. on the floor. I had this thought in the back of my mind, this is not going to end well. It was predictable. And it came to pass. But God ordained it. And I'm responsible for it. That's the other part of this. But even the big things that nobody predicts, that nobody foresees, even terrible things. How many of us still remember where we were and what was happening on that beautiful September morning 23 years ago There were 19 people who knew what was going to happen that day, but none of the rest of us knew. But God knew. And yes, God ordained that too. We get to this point of wrestling of wait a minute, does that mean that we're not responsible because God ordained it? Well, no Chapter 3 of the Westminster Confession of Faith puts it this way. God from all eternity By the most wise and holy counsel of his own will, freely and unchangeably ordained everything that ever happens. Yet in such a way that God is not the author of sin, nor is violence done to the will of the creatures. Nor is the power or possibility of secondary causes taken away, but rather established. That is one of the most profound statements of theological truth that's ever been put together by human beings. It reflects biblical truth, of course. Who was it that conquered the Babylonian Empire? Cyrus. Cyrus the Great. He did it. But God ordained it. God ordained it 170 years before it ever happened. So was it God's doing? Was it Cyrus' doing? Yes. God ordains it. Cyrus does it. We're responsible for our actions. We take actions. We do them. But they're never outside of God. God's plan. God has planned for them before we did them. Now can we understand that? No There's only one thing we lack in our inability to understand that, and that is that we are not God. Because to understand how all of that works, you would have to have the understanding that God has Which we don't have. But it's true, and we have to trust him. And here's why it's important for us Our sin is our responsibility. We did it. We chose to do it. We're responsible for it. And yet, it never catches God by surprise. It never derails his plan. It's so important to get that. We never sin so badly that God says, That? I would have never thought you would have done that. Oh well There goes all my plans. Was gonna save you, but you've gone too far now. That never happens We may be shocked by our own sin, probably because we have an over-inflated view of ourselves. I can't believe I just did that. Really? What kind of person did you think you were? Obviously better than you are. We may be shocked, but God never is. We may have not planned for it or the consequences, but God already has, and that's so important because even these people here. Obstinate, iron sinew necks, brass foreheads. I mean that's almost as bad as a three-year-old. That's us. And yet God has mercy. I love somehow, especially in the prophecy, we get this con Contrast. What did God know? Look at verse 8. Look at the end of verse 8. What did God know? For I knew that you would surely deal treacherously. and that from before birth you were called a rebel. That's what God knew. And then what does he conclude from that? For my name's sake, I defer my anger. For the sake of my praise, I restrain it for you. That I may not cut you off. He knows us, and yet he's determined for the sake of his own name. To save us. How does he do this? How can he do that? How can he be just and holy and have a holy and just wrath against sin? Know that we're rebels, know that we're treacherous, know that we have all this, and yet restrain his anger. This actually creates a dilemma within the very character of God that only the cross can solve. If you still have your Bibles in front of you, turn with me to Romans chapter three. Romans chapter three, verse twenty one to twenty six Might be just one of the most important paragraphs in the whole Bible. You all know what my favorite chapter in the Bible is. It's Romans 8. But in terms of getting at the heart of the gospel and the theology of the gospel, Romans 3 is the culmination of an argument that Paul has been crafting. Since he stated in chapter one, verse sixteen that he's not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for it is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes believes. And he's talking about why we need salvation because we're sinners. And now he talks about how we get salvation. This is how God is able. To be just and holy and have a righteous anger against sin, which comes out of his character, but also save those who should be on the receiving end of that righteous and holy anger Verse 21, but now. So many wonderful things in the Bible start with, but now, or but God. But now. The righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith This was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. We all know John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, so that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting That is the gospel summarized in a beautiful sentence. But how is that possible? How is it that because we trust in Jesus Christ, we don't perish but have everlasting life? It's explained to us here. In Romans 3, 21 to 26. And at the very heart is verses 24 and 25. We're justified by his grace as a gift. through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by Faith. Redemption and propitiation. One word is a little more familiar to us than the other, right? We kind of understand redemption. You're being bought back out of a condition of slavery or condition of condemnation. Nation, you're being purchased, your freedom is being purchased for you. Propitiation is the price paid. It is a sacrifice that satisfies divine justice. It's a sacrifice that appeases the just and holy wrath of God. Jesus on the cross cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Because the wrath of God was being poured out on him. And then he could say, It is finished. It is paid in full, because he took all of the wrath of God upon himself. And now we by faith received that. And because we are his, and he has taken our sin upon himself, we're given his name, and he saves us. And it's not because of anything we did, but it's because of everything Jesus did. Now sometimes that hurts our self-esteem. We think, well, I want God to save me for something I need Or something that he likes about me. Well, he loves you. And he does save you because he loves you But that ultimately comes from the love that he has in his own heart for you, not because of something in you. We get the hint of this back in Isaiah 48 when he says of his people, I've refined you but not as silver. That's a weird expression. I've refined you, but not as silver. Why would he say that? Well, the the the Babylonian exile was a furnace of affliction. It was a fiery trial And it's a refining, but it's a refining not as silver. How do you refine silver? Why do you refine silver? Well, silver comes in an ore, and the ore is mostly silver, but it's a lot of other things that are mixed in in And so you stick it in the fire, you liquefy it, and all the impurities come to the top. And you scrape off those impurities and you do that two or three times until what you have left is pure. Silver. But you see, the silver is what was already in the ore to begin with, and the furnace just heats it up so you can get rid of the impurities and the purities left. We're not like that. God takes us, puts us in the furnace of affliction and heats it up. It's all draws. It all gets what's left. Nothing except when we're in Christ. And Christ is in us You see, it is Christ in you that is the hope of glory. It is you being in Christ and Christ being in you. God doesn't refine us as silver, he refines us by putting the value in us. It would be almost like nobody would do this, but if you think of ridiculousness, like if one of your kids came up to you, parents, one of your kids came up to you with some rock that they found in the backyard and they said Look, I found gold in our backyard. And you're like, great, let's refine it Right? And then you put it in a furnace, because we all have one of those at home. And and and you liquefy it and you want your kids to feel better that they actually found. And so you take a gold a gold bar and you stick it in there. That way when it's all liquid you can scrape off and pure gold look at this pure gold is left. Isn't that wonderful? It's a strange illustration, but God heats us up and He puts Christ in us, which is pure gold, so that as the process of sanctification in this life works and as our ultimate glorification works And all the dross is burned away. There's actually something valuable that remains, and it's Christ in us. It's why 1 John 3:2 says, What we will be has not yet been revealed, but when we see him, we will be like him, for we will see him as he is. Is that looking upon Christ in his glory, all the dross will be burned away and will be left in his image because it's him in us that is the treasure. And this is actually far, far better than God looking at you and saying, oh, there's something in there. that I like, something in there I can work with. I'm gonna I'm gonna make you because then ultimately our salvation would depend upon something in us. And then on our bad days when we've shocked ourselves by how bad our sin is, and we're left with, am I really that bad of a person? We might think, well then where's my hope? God I thought God liked me because he thought he saw potential in me, but my potential is not what it should be. But we don't ever need to get like that because God doesn't save us because of what he sees in us. He saves us by what he puts in us. And what he puts in us is imperishable. It is glorious. And his work will not fail. And so on our worst days, we are no less secure than we are on our best days. In fact, in many ways, we might be even more secure on our worst days, because on our worst days, we can't fool ourselves into thinking that somehow we're saving ourselves. So we come to the rock of Christ. God's put his name on us. He's called us by the name of his son. We are Christian. We are in Christ. And Christ is in us. And that salvation in him is secure and cannot be lost. And all of the details that he works out in our lives, all of those many, many details that he's in control of, he's bringing them all together so that we can see. what he sees. And we can believe what he said, and we can live the life he's given us to live. We can see how weak we are, but how strong Christ is. We can see how much our sin deserves, but how much God's given us in Christ. And we can live the life of Christ. This is why when Paul prayed for believers, he said, I pray that Christ may be rooted and established in your hearts by faith That you may have power together with all the saints to grasp the height and the depth of the love of Christ, the love that surpasses all understanding, because he knew that if they were going to grow to be What God is shaping them to be, it's going to be as Christ is more and more real and more and more known, and they live more and more by his grace. That's the Christian life. The Christian life is about growing in grace, yes, but it's about growing in grace, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Not about outgrowing grace. I used to think when I was younger, oh, God has pity on me when I'm a sinner and he saves me and forgives all my sin, but then I can I can grow to the point where I can stand on my own two feet like a man. Well now I'm fifty and I real realize I can't stand on my own two feet like a man. I still need to stand in Jesus. He's my only Strength. But praise the Lord that He is an unbreakable strength, that He is an unfailing strength, that He's the refuge that never So the fact that God saves us by his grace and for his name's sake gives us a far more secure salvation. It does leave us with nothing to boast in, though. Except in the cross. Is that what Paul said? Got nothing left to boast in except in the cross. Because that's where our righteousness Heavenly Father, you have given us life in your Son. And the life of your Son Jesus is an inextinguishable life. It's an unconquerable life. It is eternal life We are held in the hands of our Savior, and no one can snatch us out of his hands We are forgiven by his blood. We are made clean and holy through his righteousness. He is the author and finisher of our faith and the captain of our salvation. May we rejoice and rest and boast in Him alone today and every day until we are face to face with you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.