Turn with me please to Isaiah forty five. Isaiah forty-five, we're going to be looking at the second half of the chapter, verses fourteen to twenty-five. Isaiah forty-five, verse fourteen. This is the word of God. Thus says the Lord. The wealth of Egypt and the merchandise of Cush and the Sabaeans, men of stature, shall come over to you and be yours. They shall follow you, they shall come over in chains and bow down to you. They will plead with you, saying, Surely God is in you, and there is no other, no God besides him. Truly, you are a God who hides himself, O God of Israel, the Savior. All of them are put to shame and confounded. The makers of idols go in confusion together, but Israel is saved by the Lord with everlasting salvation. You shall not be put to shame or confounded to all eternity. For thus says the Lord Who created the heavens? He is God, who formed the earth and made it. He established it. He did not create it empty. He formed it to be inhabited. I am the Lord, and there is no other. I did not speak in secret in the land of darkness. I did not say to the offspring of Jacob, Seek me in vain. I, the Lord, speak the truth. I declare what is right. Assemble yourselves and come. Draw near together, you survivors of the nations. They have no knowledge who carry about their wooden idols and keep on praying to a God that cannot save. Declare and present your case. Let them take counsel together. Who told this long ago? Who declared it of old? Was it not I, the Lord? And there is no other God besides me, a righteous God, and a Savior There is none besides me. Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth For I am God, and there is no other. By myself I have sworn, from my mouth has gone out in righteousness. a word that shall not return to me. Every knee shall bow, every tongue swear allegiance. Only in the Lord it shall be said of me are righteousness and strength. To him shall come, and be ashamed all who were incensed against him in the Lord, all the offspring of Israel. Shall be justified and shall glory. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are gathered together this morning as your people to hear from you. So we pray that you would speak to us. We've heard your word. We need your Holy Spirit to write it on our hearts, to help us understand, to help us receive, that we might respond in faith and obedience Obedience, that we might love you and follow you. Speak, O Lord. Give us ears to hear. We pray this In one of the greatest movies ever made, The Empire Strikes Back. Luke Skywalker goes to Dagaba to look for a great Jedi master who can train him in the force to become a Jedi knight. like his father before him. Whatever he was expecting, Luke did not find it when he first arrived on Dagobah. First, he found a planet that was a giant swamp with no safe place to land, and he landed, and his X-Wing fighter immediately started sinking into the swampy waters. And then he found this annoying little foolish old creature who kept trying to eat all of his food and fighting with R2D2. He was convinced he'd come to the wrong place and found the wrong person. But that was because he did not know what he really needed. He thought he just needed to master some techniques, become a little better with the lightsaber, but he actually needed a whole new way of understanding the whole universe. And Yoda was just the right person to do that, had to challenge his assumptions. At the marriage conference yesterday and the day before, one of the things we learned is that everyone on earth is a worshiper. It is actually so inherently part of our human nature that you cannot live without worshiping something. And I would say that likewise everyone is looking for salvation. And what we worship is the thing that we think will save us. But most people are looking in the wrong places for the wrong kind of salvation because they don't understand what they truly need. Most people think That basically what they need is the ability to be able to do what they want to do with their lives, to get their own way. And whatever obstacle is standing in the way, they don't have enough money, they don't have enough power, they don't have enough respect. They don't have enough position, whatever it is. They think that's what they need. And so they worship, that is, they pursue, they they serve whatever it is that they think will get them there More time in at work will get you the promotion, get you the more money, so that you can have your way and get that vacation you want, or you know, more social media followers will get you more influence and so you can have more control Even people who are charitable minded or altruistic, they still think that what they need is the ability to be able to do what they think needs to be done to make the world a better place according to their opinion I know what the world needs. If people would just listen to me, we can make the world a better place. What no one understands until the Holy Spirit really starts working on their hearts is that What we need most is to be saved from ourselves. What needs to be changed most is us. We need to be redeemed, reborn, renewed, spiritually resurrected, reconciled to God. Once we understand that our own hearts are in fact our biggest problem, and not our surest guide. Once we go from follow your heart to fulfill your dreams, To change my heart, O God, have mercy on me. Once we change, we realize that salvation is something only God can give us. It's a work that we cannot do ourselves. Now I've been speaking about people in universal terms. Some people have a problem with that. They say, well there's all different kinds of people. People in the world. There's people all over the world who speak different languages and they wear different kinds of clothes and they have different lifestyles. They have different religions. They they make or listen to different kinds of music. They have different standards of living. But what is so clear from today's passage, as well as from all of Scripture, is that there is one God who made everyone in the world in his image. There is one Savior, one salvation, which comes from that one God. And that's why Isaiah 45. 22, the call is turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is no other Even those far off illiterate animal skin wearing Hunter-gatherer peoples who worship trees and rocks, even they are made in the image of God. And need to be saved by the one true God. I say that confidently because when these words were given, that's what all of our ancestors were doing. They were all the far-off, illiterate, nature-worshiping, many human-sacrificing people. But the gospel came to them And they've received salvation. But then the question becomes, how can people know the one true God? Can people just figure out who God is? Can they just look around them and say, okay, I get it? Can reason and the evidence of creation around us lead us to a right, saving knowledge of God? No. No. God says two different things about Himself in this passage that on the surface of it might appear to be contradictory, but it's not at all, and it's very important to understand both of these. The first one is in verse 15. Truly, you are a God who hides himself, O God of Israel, the Savior. And then all of them are put to shame and confounded. The makers of idols go in confusion together, but Israel is saved by the Lord with everlasting salvation. You shall not be put to shame or confounded to all eternity. That's the first thing he says. He's a God who hides himself. But the second thing he says Is in verse 18 and 19, he says, I am the Lord, and there is no other. I did not speak in secret in a land of darkness. I did not say to the offspring of Jacob, seek me in vain. I the Lord speak the truth. I declare what is right. So, verse 15, you are a God who hides himself. Verse uh 19. I did not speak in secret. Which is it? Of course it's both. If the quest of humanity is, I will figure God out. I will use my reason, I will use my senses, I will use the creation that's available around me, and I will figure out who this God is. God hides himself. Now, Romans 1 tells us that the fact that there is a God who is eternal in power and divine in nature is clearly seen from what is in creation, so that people are without excuse. And Psalm 19 tells us that the heavens declare the glory of God, and that this goes out to all the earth. So the fact that there is a God is plain enough. It takes a lot of convoluted reasoning to get to a place where you think that something came from nothing. That life came from non-life and that intelligence came from non-intelligence. That's a weird way of thinking that almost nobody in the history of the world has thought of until recent history when people Just freeze into their way out of sanity into madness. It's obvious, it's evident, you don't get this world without a creator of this world. But that's not enough to save. And people left on their own will try to reason what this one God might be like. And the only thing we have to reason from is ourselves. And so we say, what might this God be like? Well, I guess he's kind of like me. And so what we do is we create idols that are made in our image. And we create, you know, the most primitive form is you create little statues and you create little and and what that is is really a form of self-worship. And in our modern age, we May not have the little statues, but it's still the same basic thing, and that is God God is looks like me, and that means I can get what I want. Self-worship. But God has spoken. He's hidden himself from being fully known through human reason, but he has spoken. And he did not speak in secret. He spoke in ways that are open, that are plain, that are recorded, that are widespread Once you start asking the question of, has God spoken? And if so, where has God spoken? The Bible rises to the top. as being the revelation from God that is most universally available, the most published and most widely distributed book in history. It's the most translated book in history. But also the one that is the most verifiable in its truth claims. You can read prophecies of the details of Christ's life that we know were written down hundreds of years before he was born And they came to pass, born of a virgin, born in Bethlehem, doing ministry in Galilee, teaching in parables, doing many miracles, opening the eyes of the blind, raising the dead. And when Jesus did these miracles It was in the sight of lots of unbelievers. During the Exodus, when God really began to reveal himself to his people, God didn't do so in secret. He did many public miracles in the sight of all the Egyptians who were not believers who could Could see that there was one God, the God of Israel, who was working powerfully, and that he was real, and the gods of the Egyptians were fake. And when Jesus came into the world, he did public miracles with many eyewitnesses, including many who were not believers. Because God has not spoken in secret. He has spoken plainly. He speaks the truth. He declares what is right. The question is, will we listen to what he has said, or will we still insist that we can figure it out on our own That is still the struggle that every human being is engaged in. God has spoken. He's spoken plainly. He's spoken openly. It's in this book. Will we listen to what he says? He doesn't say, seek me in vain He speaks the truth. He declares what is right. He says, turn to me and be saved, for I am God and there is no other. It's not real complex. But will we listen or will we say, uh there's a lot of Christians who do a lot of dumb things and you know a lot of hypocrites in the church, and so I'm going to look and try to figure it out on my own. Well Good luck finding anywhere in the world where there's not people who do messed up things and hypocrites. It's where has God spoken and will you listen? God made all the peoples of the earth, and God speaks to all the peoples of the earth. Now when you're in the Old Testament, one of the things that comes up a lot of times is, well, is is God Israel's Savior? Or is he the savior of the nations? Does he come to the rescue of Israel? Or does he come to bring salvation to the whole world? Of course the answer to that one is yes. By the way, if you know me at all, you looked at the outline of today's sermon and you're like, okay, I see what he's doing here. Has God hidden himself or has God spoken? Yes. Is God Israel's Savior or the Savior of the world? Yes. Right? That's We need to think as God thinks. So is the Lord Israel's Savior? Yes, absolutely. God repeatedly demonstrated from the very beginning. Like I said, when he spoke in in Egypt during the Exodus, he demonstrated his power to the Egyptians, but he saved The people of Israel. But he also saved, even there, he also saved anyone from among the Egyptians who was willing to listen, willing to hear the word of the Lord, willing to go with God's people. Because even when God's salvation was for Israel, it was never only for Israel. Rahab The harlot in Jericho was included because she listened to the word of God and heeded it. Ruth, the Moabitist, even though the people of Moabite Moab were excluded from the people of God because of lots of bad stuff, but Ruth, a Moabitist, she was included. Why? Because she listened To the word of the Lord. And we see that throughout. But here, God makes it very clear that when He's speaking, He's offering everlasting salvation. to his people, but not just to his people, to all the nations. Last week we heard in the first half of Isaiah 45, and Mike brought us a great message from that. And what we saw was that God showed his power, God showed who he was by declaring 150 plus years ahead of time, declaring the name Of the anointed shepherd who would restore his people from exile into the promised land years before they even went into exile They weren't even in exile. They wouldn't even be in exile for a couple more generations. But God tells them, not only are you going to go into exile, but here's the name of the guy who's going to lead you back, Cyrus. The Great, first emperor of the Persian Empire. He's known in history. You can still read about him in history books today. You could go to the British Museum in London and you can see. The Cyrus cylinder, and you can see his decrees restoring the peoples to their lands. It's recorded historical fact and we know God said it 150 plus years before it happened. He shows he's the one true God and he's Israel's Savior. But now in the second half of Isaiah 45, he expands the vision both of what salvation means and of whose salvation is for. You see, in the first half of Isaiah 45, it looks like salvation means Israel gets to come out of Babylon and go back to the promised land. And that's great. If you're in Israel and you're in Babylon, the good news that you get to go home is good news. But in the second half of Isaiah 45, he expands what salvation means. and whose salvation is for. Look at how he expands what salvation means in verse 17. But Israel is saved by the Lord with Everlasting salvation. You shall not be put to shame or confounded to all eternity. And then verse 22, turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth. For I am God and there is no other So salvation is not a temporary political rescue. Salvation is an everlasting salvation, where we are not put to shame or confounded to all eternity. And it's not just for Israel, it is for the ends of the You see, to bring Israel back from Babylon to Jerusalem simply took the edict of a king. Cyrus just had to say, you know what, this policy of displacing people from their homelands, that's not good politics. What's better politics is to let people go back to their homelands and then they'll be thankful to me and I'll have a stronger empire. All you need is a politician. Cyrus wasn't a believer. He didn't fear the Lord. He was a tyrant, in fact. But that's all you need to work out sort of the temporary political salvation. It's just a politician. But for everlasting salvation, it would take something far, far greater. For everlasting salvation, God would anoint the greater son of David. born in the town of David in Bethlehem, who would offer his life To free us from the condemnation of sin and would rise again to deliver us from eternal death. The biggest problem Israel had was not that they were in Babylon. The biggest problem Israel had was that they were in sin. The biggest problem you and I have is not cancer or heart disease or inflation. Or the the state of our culture. Those are not the biggest problems we have. The biggest problem you and I have is that we are sinners, and that God is holy, and that eternity is forever. And so the greatest salvation comes through the one who comes and lays down his life. He defeats sin and death forever, not only for the Jews, but for all who will believe. Romans 1:16 says, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, because it is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes, first for the Jew and then for the Gentile. And I'm so thankful for then for the Gentile, because that means we get to come in too. And so God says, Turn to me all the ends of the earth and be saved. All the ends of the earth must turn to the Lord because there is no other God but Him. He's the Savior of the whole world. But how can the whole world turn to the Lord and be saved if they don't know Him? If you still have your Bible open, turn to Romans 10. See, God has hidden himself, but God has spoken. God is the Savior, not just of Israel, but of all the ends of the earth. But how are the ends of the earth going to come to know the eternal salvation? Romans 10 tells us, we'll start in verse 9, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord. And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the scripture says, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. See, not be put to shame for all eternity. For there is no distinction between the Jew and the Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. That is the gospel. But then look at 14. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they've never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. But they have not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he heard from us? So faith comes from hearing. and hearing through the word of Christ. God has spoken. He's spoken plainly. He's spoken most plainly and most fully in his Son. the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the Word of God made flesh. He is the name of God completely revealed in human form. And the call to turn to me and be saved is a call to turn to Christ and be saved. But how will the world hear? They will only hear when Christ is proclaimed, when they hear the word of Christ proclaimed by preachers sent out by the church. That's how all of our ancestors first received the gospel. It's how the good news of everlasting salvation came to us. Some of us were privileged to grow up in Christian families where we heard it from a very young age, but we heard the word of Christ. But 1600 years ago, it was Patrick Of England who first brought the gospel of Jesus Christ to Ireland, a land of savage pagans who practiced human sacrifice. And he went in the power of the Holy Spirit, and he planted churches all across Ireland, and from Ireland, really the gospel was reintroduced to the rest of Europe. Fast forward to the 1960s, and it was Billy Graham preaching the gospel at a crusade in Philadelphia where my mom heard the gospel. And if she hadn't heard the gospel, I wouldn't hear the gospel. Well, today, there's about eight billion people who live in the world. And about 3 billion of those, that's 3,000 million people in the world, do not have an opportunity to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. No one has yet come to preach Jesus to them in their language so that they can understand who he is. They don't know who he is. They haven't heard. It's been 2,000 years since Jesus came and brought salvation to all nations, and yet three billion people sit in darkness. And largely, on a human level, it is the unwillingness of wealthy Western Christians to sacrifice that keeps them from hearing the gospel. I was at the missionary conference last week, this not this past week, but the week before. And we were hearing this challenging call, take the gospel. And I got to know a little bit about this ministry called Finister. Finister means the end of the earth. It's actually the name of a mountain range in Papua New Guinea. Papua New Guinea is an island that is sits to the north of Australia and it's Peopled by hundreds of tribes of natives who don't all speak the same languages, estimated 800 languages that are spoken in Papua New Guinea. And most of them have never heard the gospel. And here's what I learned. The government of Papua New Guinea welcomes missionaries to come in and preach the gospel. They will give you a visa and they will put on the visa missionary church planter approved and you can come into the country and stay for years. That's rare. In terms of unreached peoples, that's rare. Not only that, but these tribes that live in the Finisterra Mountain region, they welcome white Westerners. Now it's through an interesting quirk of their native beliefs. Their native beliefs are that when they see white Westerners It is the spirit of their ancestors come back to teach them the truth. And so when they see white people come to their remote village, they welcome them. They clear ground so that a house can be built. And they listen. And by God's grace, tribe after tribe is being reached. But the truth is there are many more tribes who actually want to be reached with the gospel than there are people willing to go or churches willing to fund. the people who are willing to go. Will we will we answer the call? Yes, our neighbors need the gospel. But some people think, well, we can't go out there and reach the nations. until everyone here has responded and believed in Jesus. But that's not what Romans 10 says. Look back At verse 16 of Romans 10. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? And we know Paul when he's writing this, just to give you context, Paul's writing this to the church in Rome, and he's writing it to the church in Rome because his base of operations has been the church in Antioch. in Syria. So that's try to get it oriented to your direction. In the eastern Mediterranean, just north of Israel, Syria, right? Antioch in Syria was his base of operations, and from there he went out and reached The eastern Mediterranean. So all of Greece, all of Turkey, the island of Crete, all of that area was reached. And then he wanted to go to Rome and relocate his base of operations in Rome so that he could take the gospel to Spain. And when he writes in Romans about his desire to do this, he says, he says, by God's grace the gospel's been preached all the way from Jerusalem to Illyricum, so all over the Eastern Metro. Mediterranean, so that there's no more room left. There's no place where they don't have a church witnessing. There's dozens of churches planted. At that time, only about 1% of the population in the Eastern Mediterranean were Christians. But Paul's saying there's enough churches there that are know the gospel and are growing that they can reach their neighbors. Nobody over here knows the gospel. So I want you to send me over here where nobody, he says, it's my desire to preach Christ where Christ is not known. So there's both, our mission statement is that we are committed to being deeply rooted in God's Word And reaching our neighbors and the nations with the gospel of Jesus Christ. So do we need to reach Forest Hill? Absolutely. Are there unbelievers, even in our own families, that we need to share the gospel with? Absolutely. Our neighbors, our coworkers, the you know, families who are in our kids' sports teams, absolutely we need to reach those people. We need to. They need the gospel. Well we can't just wait and say, well, until every single person here is a believer, we can't go to Papua New Guinea or to Sudan or to Indonesia or to Because those people don't have the gospel at all. Now God has given us a promise. It's right here in this passage, and that is that the gospel will go forth. That it will reach the ends of the earth. We see it at the opening of our passage, and we see it again at the end of our passage. Verse 14, we read this: Thus says the Lord: The wealth of Egypt, the merchandise of Cush, and the Sabians, men of stature, shall come over to you and be yours. They shall follow you. They shall come over in chains and bow down to you. They will plead with you, saying, Surely God is in you, and there is no other, no God besides him. So here's the good news. The church in Egypt has been thriving from the earliest days of Christianity. They're there. In Cush, which today is Sudan and uh northern Ethiopia The gospel is there. The church is there. Sabaeans, men of stature. We're not 100% sure exactly who that belongs to, but it seems to be referring to dark-skinned, very tall people. And I happen to know that the tallest of the very tall are from South Sudan. If you've heard of Manute Bowl and Bowl Bowl Right? These seven foot three MBA players, they're from South Sudan. And so that that may be where these Sabaeans are from, these men of stature. And by God's grace, we are directly engaged in reaching these peoples through the work of reaching Africa's unreached. But God is there. God, the gospel is there. The gospel has been there. The gospel is thriving. It is spreading. And God said it would. And then look at the end of the passage. Verse 23 to 25. By myself I have sworn, from my mouth has gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return. That means it's going to happen. To me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance. Only in the Lord it shall be said of me Our righteousness and strength to him shall come and be ashamed, all who were incensed against him In the Lord shall all the offspring of Israel shall be justified and shall glory. And I think in the light of the New Testament, all the offspring of Israel includes us, the church receives the inheritance. of the promises given to Israel. And so God is saving people and he will save people The Apostle Paul, you might recognize verse 23, to me every knee shall bow, every tongue swear allegiance. You might recognize that. The Apostle Paul picks that up in Philippians 2, the Christ hymn. Philippians 2, 5 through 11, have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who though he was in the form of God, Did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. In heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confessed that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. Now, every knee will bow and every tongue confess on the day when Jesus comes again. There will be no doubt, and that's why It says that to him will come all of those who were incensed against him, because many of those who bow the knee will be those who had been the enemies of God and the gospel. But we also know from Scripture that there is a holy remnant, there is a chosen people of God among every tribe-tongue people and nation. There are the remnants of the nations, the survivors of the nations, is how they're actually referred to in Isaiah 45. They're going to come in By grace through faith, and they're going to find this everlasting salvation. And God will be glorified, and we will be glorified in Him. In the Lord, all the offspring of Israel shall be justified and shall glory. God will be glorified, and we will be glorified in Him. But Jesus tells us that will that day will come when the church is complete, and the church will be complete when the gospel has gone to every tribe, tongue, people and nation and everyone has heard the gospel and all of God's sheep are called by the voice of the shepherd to come in. So We are called. We are called. First, we're called to believe in the Lord So if you're here and you've been hearing about Jesus and you haven't come to him, you haven't cried out to him, you haven't turned to him, you haven't bowed the knee to him, do so now. The invitation is open. Turn to me and be saved. Now, turning is a word that speaks of repentance. There has to be a turning from the natural way of life. The natural way of life, like I said, me, me, me How can I get what I want? How can I do what I think needs to be done? How do I, me, myself, and I There has to be turning from that to say, Lord, you. As soon as the driving pronoun of your life changes from I to you. You've turned and you've received salvation. You do so through trusting in Jesus Christ as Lord. It's an everlasting salvation. It was purchased by the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. And if you trust in him, you will not be put to shame. Shame for all eternity, because all those who put their trust in Jesus will find that trust well placed. Those of us who do know him, though, We need to ask ourselves, what are we doing? To either send out the gospel to the ends of the earth or to go ourselves to the ends of the earth? It is my prayer, and I want it to be our prayer, that not only would the gospel go out through the missionaries that we support now. but that we would be even more committed to sending out the gospel further, and that the Lord would raise up from our own congregation Those who would go and take the gospel. It could be Silas or Timothy or Elise or Jackson or Evelyn Anyone. But when the time comes, will we? At the end of the conference, I was talking to Bob Brown, who went with me. And I said, well what about our kids? And he said, I've been spending my free time searching for who are the unreached people groups of North America. And I said, Well, there are some. But will we go, or will we let our children go? Will we pray for God to raise up those who will go? And will we send? Will we sacrifice that the name of Jesus might be spread to all the ends of the earth He has laid down his life for us. He's paid everything to save us. And he gives us the joyful invitation to be a part of his reaching to the ends of the world. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your gospel is the only true good news in this world. It is the only true good news. It will last forever. Everlasting salvation Not be ashamed or confounded to all eternity are those who put their hope in Jesus and Jesus alone. So I pray that if there are any who are here who have not trusted in Jesus, that That they would turn and be saved right now by your grace. That they would turn and say, Lord, not my will, but your will be done I can't save myself. Would you save me? I've been trying to go my own way for so long. I need to go your way. Would you turn their hearts And Father, would you give all of us who know you a deeper passion, a deeper commitment, a deeper willingness to sacrifice for the sake of of the gospel to the ends of the earth, for the glory of King Jesus, for the building up of your church, for the glory of your people who are called by you Your name. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.