Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, our fourth day of our 25th week. brings us to the end of Luke 11, verses 27 to 54, and also to Psalm 120. Our focus question today for Luke 11 verses 27 to 54 is when is it right to tell people what they don't want to hear? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and for your word and for the privilege it is to spend time with you day by day. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts by your Holy Spirit and show us more of Jesus that we might love him and follow him better. We pray this in his name. Amen. Luke eleven, verses twenty-seven to fifty-four. As he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you and the breasts at which you nursed. But he said, Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, This generation is an evil generation. It seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah. For as Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so will the Son of Man be to this generation. The Queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here. The men of Nineveh will rise up at the generation with at the judgment with this generation and condemn it. For they pr repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold something greater than Jonah is here. No one After lighting a lamp, puts it under a co um in a cellar or under a basket, but on a stand so that those who enter may see the light. Your eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is healthy, your whole body is full of light. But when it is bad, your whole body is full of darkness. Therefore be careful, lest the light in you be darkness If then your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly bright, as when a lamp with its rays gives you light. While Jesus was speaking, a Pharisee asked him to dine with him, and so he went in and reclined at table. The Pharisee was astonished to see that he did not first wash before dinner. And the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside you are full of greed and wickedness, you fools. Did not he who made the outside make the inside also? But give as alms those things that are within, and behold everything is clean for you. But woe to you, Pharisees, for you tithe mint and roux and every herb, and neglect justice and the law of God. These you ought to have done without neglecting the others. Woe to you, Pharisees, for you love the best seat in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces. Woe to you For you are like unmarked graves, and people walk over them without knowing it. One of the lawyers answered him, Teacher, in saying these things you insult us also, and he said, Woe to you lawyers also For you load people with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers. Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers killed. So you are witnesses, and you consent to the deeds of your fathers, for they killed them, and you build their tombs. Therefore also the wisdom of God said, I will send them prophets and apostles, some of whom they will kill and persecute, so that the blood of all the prophets shed from the foundation of the world may be charged against this generation, from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I tell you it will be required of this generation. Woe to you, lawyers. For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You did not enter yourselves, and you hindered those who were entering. As he went away from there. The scribes and the Pharisees began to press him hard and to provoke him to speak about many things, lying in wait for him to catch him in something he might say. In our generation and in our culture, we are not used to hearing some of the things Jesus said. We have a stereotypical image of Jesus as a nice guy who spoke peace, love, and understanding. But today's passage challenges those assumptions. Jesus' words are unlike anyone else in history. He held crowds spellbound. and left them in awe of his great authority. He spoke words of gentle forgiveness and love, but at times he also spoke words of clear rebuke. and judgment. The same crowds who gathered to see him heal, to get free food, or to hear wonderful words of forgiveness, could also be shocked at how bold and uncompromising Jesus could be. Consider First, Jesus looked at those around him and called them an evil generation. Second, Jesus warned the Jewish people who heard him that Gentiles, like the Queen of Sheba and the people of Nineveh, would rise up and condemn them at the judgment. Third, Jesus went to eat with the most religious people in his culture, and he called them fools telling them they were full of greed and wickedness inside. Fourth, Jesus compared religious people to unmarked graves, and fifth, when lawyers challenged Jesus He implicated them in the guilt of killing the prophets. Considering what Jesus said and how he said it, we might wonder when it's right to tell people what they don't want to hear. After all, no one wants to be told they're a sinner and in need of rescue from their sin, but if we don't tell them the truth about themselves, how will they see their need for Jesus? As popular as the WWJD question was several years ago, we need to be careful when we just try to go out and do what Jesus did. After all, we are not the Son of God. We are not sinless ourselves. We do not have perfect knowledge of the hearts of others. So while Jesus could speak clearly and boldly with absolute authority and accuracy, we need to be more humble and aware of our own sin. Still, people do need to know the truth. In most cases, it's best to let the Word of God do its work. In the hearts of those who need Jesus, we can share with humble honesty and bold clarity, what God's Word says about God's holy standard, the law of God, the Ten Commandments, and what God has said about our hearts. as fallen sinners. If we will speak the truth in humility and love, praying for God to do his work, we can trust him. After all, salvation belongs to the Lord and not to us. So speak his words. Prayerfully and humbly. Psalm 120. We are now beginning the songs of ascents. These are the pilgrim songs that go from 120 to 134. This is the beginning of pilgrimage, living among sinful fallen people and longing to be uh with the Lord. Psalm 120. In my distress I called to the Lord, and he answered me. Deliver me, O Lord, from lying lips, from a deceitful tongue. What shall be given to you? And what more shall be done to you, you deceitful tongue? A warrior's sharp arrows with glowing coals from the broom tree, woe to me that I sojourn in Meshek That I dwell among the tents of Kidar. Too long I have had my dwelling among those who hate peace. I am for peace, but when I speak they are for war. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, we live in a wicked generation, in a fallen world, among people who love war and conflict. Social media just seems to be a fuel for the fire of judgmentalism and conflict and self-righteousness and all sorts of ugliness that comes out from people. We need peace. And we don't find peace in this world. But we find peace in the Prince of Peace, in your Son, our Savior. We find peace from your Holy Spirit. The fruit of the Spirit is peace. So, Father, help us to speak the truth in love to a world that sometimes doesn't want to hear it. And help us to live as pilgrims whose hearts are set on the peace that is found in you alone. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was an encouragement and a blessing to you, and I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.