Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill. Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you. This is our 18th week of doing Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals together three days a week. We've come to question number 50. today, the fiftieth question of the Heidelberg Catechism, and we're moving from the ascension of Christ to his session or his seating at the right hand of God the Father in power and majesty on high. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to the catechism and to his word today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for Jesus our Savior, our great high priest, King of Kings, and Lord of Lords. Teach us more about Jesus today. Help us to see him more clearly. Help us to believe in him more strongly and faithfully. Help us to follow him more humbly. And give us grace today, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So we are in the section of the Heidelberg Catechism that deals with the Apostles' Creed. as the articles of the faith that we must believe. This is in the grace section. We've been moving from guilt through grace to gratitude. In the grace section, We know that we are we are saved by faith, but faith in faith in what? What do we need to believe? What are the articles of our faith? Well the articles of our faith have been summarized for the church for nearly 2,000 years in the Apostles' Creed. There are twelve articles. And they're in three sections. It's Trinitarian, a section on God the Father, a section on God the Son, a section on God the Holy Spirit The longest is focused on Jesus, which is a pattern that we saw actually taken from the New Testament, from Philippians 2. from 1 Timothy and places where we get these creedal statements in the New Testament that kind of form the nugget of what later became the Apostles' Creed. So the question number 23 is where we started with this. What are these articles, the articles of our Christian faith? Answer, I believe in God the Father Almighty. creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and buried. He descended into hell. On the third day he rose again from the dead, he ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. That's where our focus is today. And sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there, he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. This is what we believe. And so last week we were looking at the ascension of Christ from He ascended into heaven. And the last question we left off with last week was How does Christ's ascension into heaven benefit us? Well, we said first, he is our advocate in heaven before his Father. Second, we have our flesh in heaven, that is a true human being in heaven, as a sure pledge that he, our head, will also take us, his members, up to himself. And we looked at where Jesus said in in the Gospel of John that, you know, he's going to prepare a place for us that where he is, there we will be also. And then third, he sends his spirit as a counter pledge. Jesus, the pledge in heaven, the spirit, the pledge in us, pledge, counterpledge. We have an intercessor in heaven, Jesus. We have an intercessor in us. We have a mediator, an advocate with the Father. We have an advocate within us, the Spirit. He's a counterpledge By whose power we seek the things that are above. Colossians 3, we looked at last week, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God and not the things that are on earth. So that wrapped up our ascension stretch. We actually had four catechism questions on the ascension of Jesus, which I think is a very neglected doctrine in the church today. So we switch over to Lord's Day 19. Now, and we come to question fifty. Why is it added and sits at the right hand of God? We know he ascended into heaven. Why does the Apostles' Creed specify not only the ascension of Christ? But the term is the session of Christ. That is, he sits in authority in the courts of heaven. He sits at the right hand of God the Father. Well, Christ ascended into heaven to manifest himself there as head of his church through whom The Father governs all things. That's why he sits at the right hand of God. He's manifesting himself there as head of the church, head of his church. through whom the Father governs all things. Where do we see this? Well, Ephesians 1, 20-23 is a great place where we see this. It's the power that Paul's talking about here in Ephesians 1, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. far above all rule and authority and power and dominion and above every name that is named not only in this age but also in the one to come And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church. which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. Boy, this is one of those passages in the New Testament that's so powerful and so clear. that we cannot be Christians who are under the headship of the Lord Jesus Christ, who love the Lord Jesus Christ. and who despise his church or we're not part of his church or we're not participating as members of his body, the church, because Christ is seated at the right hand of God Almighty, the right hand of the Father. This is the man Christ Jesus, our representative, our intercessor. He's there far above all rule and authority and power and dominion. He's he's far greater than any. That's why when he was here on earth and the people wanted to make him king, he was like, Nah, I I have a higher throne I'm going to. I don't need your petty little kingdom here on earth That's why Jesus says, my kingdom is not of this world. When Christians get too caught up in politics, it's almost like we're trying to drag Christ down from his throne at the right hand of God, and we're trying to make him you know, hyper concerned with our local temporary politics. That's that's the city of man. That's not the city of God. That's the earthly kingdoms of men that rise and fall. He sits on the throne that is established forever at the right hand of the Father. He's above every name that is named. There is no name higher than the name of Jesus. Not only in this age, but also in the one to come, so he's eternally enthroned. But he's God the Father has put all things under his feet and given him as head over all things to the church. Do you realize that? The privilege that the church has. The head of the church is the one who is head over all things. Let that sink in for a minute. Who is the head of the church? Not the Pope, not any archbishop The head of the church is the Lord Jesus Christ, who is head over all things. He is far above all rule and authority and power and dominion and every name that is to be named, not only in this age, but in the one who is to come He's the one who's the head of the church, his body, the fullness of him who fills all and all. We are his fullness, of him who fills all and all. We are his body of the one who is head over everything We should love the church. We should be committed to the church. We should also be committed to the peace and purity and unity of the church that we would love one another well, that we would be committed to Christ with zeal, and that we would be united by the faith that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's one place where we see this. We see much the same doctrine here in Colossians. So there's a lot of parallels between Ephesians and Colossians, by the way, in Colossians chapter 1. We see that Christ is the head of the body, the church, and that he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. That's powerful. Jesus gets the preeminence in everything, and he does so as head of the body, the church. And finally, just one more scripture passage to look at for today, 1 Peter 3. 22. Christ has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him I wonder if we take seriously the power and glory, the majesty, the might, the rule that Jesus has right now. Yes, he's coming again to judge, but he reigns right now. And not just in some private small way. He reigns within my heart. You know, he walks with me and he talks with me along life's merry way or whatever. He reigns as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He has all angels' authorities and powers subjected to him. He is far above all rule and authority and power and dominion and every name that is named. Now Christ reigns now and he reigns as head over his church now. He reigns as the head of the body, the church. that in everything he might be preeminent. This is a glorious truth that I don't think we really take seriously enough or really give enough attention to. When we gather together as the Church of Jesus Christ to worship Him, it is an awesome thing. We are being drawn into the courts of heaven spiritually. We are being gathered around the throne of the King of the universe spiritually. We are communing with him. He is meeting with us. Because Christ has ascended into heaven to manifest himself there as head of his church through whom the Father governs all things. That's the Jesus that we worship. That's the Jesus whose body we belong to as the Church That is awesome. Be encouraged. Be comforted by that today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for Jesus our Savior and Lord, who is King of Kings and Lord of Lords and Lord of all. Help us to trust him, to obey him, and to be committed to your church, the body of Christ, who is the head overall. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Let's respond to God's truth right now by singing a great hymn, Crown Him with many crowns. Many crowns, the lamb upon his throne, Hur the Heavenly Anthem. Awake my soul and see a fear. Who died for thee and held him as thy matchless key to all eternity. Crowned the Lord of light who tried o the gray and rose victorious. In the strife for seeking to stay. His glory is now we stay. Who died and arose on high? Who died he turned to bring Elder? Crown in the Lord of love, he holding hands to work. Everything for love in county to be great. One with Father now. And the spirit through him came from beyond the triangle all hil.