Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are in John chapter 10, looking at the second half of the chapter today. And we're asking, where do we find our security? Where do we find our security? Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to his word today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you so much for your faithfulness to us. Thank you that you are with us every day. Thank you that you like to teach us from your word because you love us and you want to impart truth to us. You want to show your son to us. We pray that you would show us Jesus so clearly from this passage today that we would trust him and love him and follow him better. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. John chapter 10, verses 22 to 42. At that time the feast of dedication took place in Jerusalem. It was winter. And Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon. So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me, but you do not believe, because you are not among my sheep. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. The Jews picked up stones again to stone him. Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father, for which of them are you going to stone me? The Jews answered him, It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you, but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God. Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said you are gods? If he called them gods to whom the word of God came, and scripture cannot be broken. Do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, you are blaspheming, because I said I am the Son of God. If I am not doing the works of my Father then do not believe me. But if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works that you may know And understand that the Father is in me, and I am in the Father. Again, they sought to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands. He went away again across Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained And many came to him. And they said, John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man was true. And many believed in him there. You know, we live in a time and an age and a culture where so much is being driven by fear, the insecurity, the unknown. Politicians capitalize on this. Social media profits off of this. There's there's this toxic combination where social media is literally driven in its profits by getting people to click on things, share things, stay on things so that more and more advertising dollars can come in. And what they have found is that the most powerful way to get people engaged is to scare them, make them afraid, and make them angry. Fear and anger, intense emotions. They're gripping emotions. To be afraid and angry holds you. Well then politicians capitalize on that, and they'll convince you that the thing you should be most afraid of and most angry at is the other side in the political debate. So Democrats will tell you, Republicans are gonna, you know, let old people die without medical care and have poor people starve and then the Republicans will tell you that the Democrats are gonna, you know, brainwash your children and and take over uh all of our cultural institutions and and you know there are They just they just get you angry and afraid so that you will vote for them and so that you will support them in just about anything they want to do to protect you from the enemy. Well, I think that this is actually not good for God's people to be dragged into this kind of thing because we ultimately don't look to the world for our security. Where do we find our security? The introduction to this section in John 10, we have a transition from the first 21 verses to this with a new time marker. At that time, John tells us, the feast of dedication took place in Jerusalem. It was winter. Now this is one of those verses that's easy to overlook, but there's a reason why John points this out. John is always intentional at connecting Christ to Old Testament events, to the history of God's people, and showing how he fulfills these things. The Feast of Dedication, we know that today. What's the winter holiday that Jewish people celebrate? Hanukkah. The Feast of Dedication, the Feast of Light, is when the Maccabees overthrew Uh Antiochus, Epiphanes, and the remnant of the Greek Empire that was over um the Jewish people, they overthrew them and they declare their independence. uh but they wanted to celebrate and they didn't have enough oil for the lampstand in the temple, but God miraculously provided and they got eight days of light from what was really not enough oil to provide that. So this is the feast of lights or the feast of dedication. It shows that even when God's people were outnumbered Even when they were under a cruel oppressor, God was their deliverance and God was their security. Now if Jesus comes into this and he steps in and they're asking him, Are you the Christ? Tell us plainly. And he says, I've told you, and you still don't believe. He says, the works that I do, they testify. They witness about me, but you don't believe. And then he says this wonderful thing, verses 27 to 30, one of my favorite passages in all of Scripture. My sheep hear my voice. And I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life and they will never perish and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I And the father are one. Sheep. We learned yesterday that sheep can be stubborn They can be wayward, they can be slow to learn, they can be easily misled by the herd instinct. But Jesus says here that if we are his sheep, We will hear his voice when he speaks to us through Scripture by the Holy Spirit. We will follow him because he knows us. Now when Jesus says I know them, it's not like Oh yeah, I recognize that guy. Jesus knows everybody because he's God and he's omniscient. But this knowing is this intimate relational knowing. In other words, he loves us as his own. That's what he means by I know them. I love them as my own. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them. I love them as my own, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. Look at those three truths in verse 28. It's what Jesus gives us, eternal life. And the truth that flows from that is we will never perish. And that means that no one will ever snatch us out of his hand. And then he says, My Father God, the Father, greater than all, gave them to me. No one's able to snatch them out of my Father's hand. This is absolute security. This is this is Rock solid, airtight, no enemy can separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus. And then Jesus says in verse 30, one of the most profound things he says in his whole ministry, and the Jewish people there understood exactly what he meant. He said, I and the Father are one. Remember a couple of chapters earlier in John 8, Jesus had made a stunning statement that caused the Jews to want to stone him to death when he said, Before Abraham was, I am. Before Abraham was I am, they understood what that meant. He was claiming to be the great I am, Yahweh, the one who was before Abraham. But here He says, I and the Father are one, even clearer, even more unmistakable. He was sent by the Father, he was sent into the world, but he and the Father are actually one. That's why they pick up stones to stone him. because they say he's claiming to be God. And he doesn't deny that. He says I'm he says scripture calls You gods. This is from the Psalms. I said you are gods, and yet like any man you will perish. This here gods means mighty ones. So God called his the rulers of his people the mighty ones the powerful ones, the influential ones, um, but he called them gods, and and yet they were able to perish. But here is the Son of God sent by the Father into the world, and he is the Son of God. And he says, you don't have to take my word for it. You can believe on the basis of the evidence that I have of the works that I have done. And we can we can take these works and we can connect them back to what Jesus said about not being able to snatch us out of the Father's hand. And we could say, wait a minute. Jesus who calmed the storm on the raging sea. Jesus who walked on water. Jesus who fed 5,000 people. With one boy's lunch. Jesus who raised the dead. Jesus who cast out a legion of demons from a man. Jesus who conquered death in his resurrection, he's the one who says that he knows us and that no one will snatch us out of his hand. That should give us so much confidence and so much security. And one small application of that is that we should not let the world make us panicked, paranoid, afraid, angry, ready to take things into our own hands and make things happen, because that is not an appropriate posture. For a child of God trusting in our good shepherd. It's just not. Notice even here they come to arrest Jesus. First, they want to stone Jesus, and then they come to arrest Jesus. But he escaped from their hands. And what did he say earlier in John chapter 10? No one takes my life from me, but I lay it down freely of my own accord. This is the key of having real security is knowing that our days are written in God's book. They're written out in God's book. No one will take us out of this world but Jesus Himself who will welcome us home into His presence. We are safe in Him. We are loved by Him. We are held by Him. We are led by him. We are secure in him. No politician, no cancer, no temptation, no doubt can ever separate us from our good shepherd. Who has given us eternal life because he knows us as his own. We do not need to be afraid. Let's pray. O Lord Jesus, great shepherd of the sheep, you have called us your own. You have loved us as your own. You have given us eternal life. And we will never perish. There is nothing better that we could ever hear in this life than to know that we are held in your hands and no one can snatch us out of your hands. That is the good news of all good news. And we thank you for it. Hold us, lead us, reassure us, and grow us in strength and confidence in your love. We pray this in your name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope you have a blessed weekend this weekend. I hope you get to church on Sunday and worship the Lord together with His people. If you are in the Harford County area and you don't have a church home, you're welcome to come and worship with us at Forest Hill. But go and worship with your local body if you already have a church that you belong to, and we'll see you back here on Monday. Have a blessed day in the Lord. Lord,