So my wife Amy and I had the the privilege of joining you all uh one time before this, but it's it's great to be back with you again and to be be sitting before God's word with you again. And so I invite you to turn to Psalm 62. We'll be looking at the the whole Psalm this morning. One of the things I do just as an associate pastor, you get to go around to other churches when there are needs and step in and fill in. But um With many of the men in the presbytery, it's just such a a privilege to know them and to be friends with them and to to benefit from their wisdom. And Jason is very much that way for me So so I am so appreciative of your all as pastor and uh how God has called him here and how he's used him here. Um so I I'm grateful to Jason and I'm sure you all are far more grateful to the Lord for And as we turn to God's word now, to Psalm 62, would you uh join me and pray with me? Lord, we need you. As we come to your word, we need you to turn our minds to it. Give us eyes that see. Eyes that see the promises here and the truth of it. Give us eyes that see you, that behold you by faith. And we do ask that in this world, as as storms come up in our lives, as there are these challenges, as there are difficulties, as there are trials, that you would help us to live by faith and not by sight. That we wouldn't define our lives and everything by the the trials that are before us, by the difficulties we're facing, but that we would live by faith in you. That we would cling to Christ, who has come to take hold of us, to seek and to save the lost. Lord, as we we will read here, that our souls find rest in you and when would you make that so? Even as we hear your word, would you stir up our souls to fond rest in you alone? Just have the distractions of life, the distractions of the threats. Take a backseat to the reality of you being our God, our rock, our fortress, our salvation, the one from whom our hope comes The one who is strong and mighty above all gods, above all things, the one in whom there is steadfast love Who loves us your own deeply. Let us rest that your strength Your promises, your love, they are ours and our Lord Jesus Christ, that you yourself are ours, and we yours and our beloved Our Savior. Amen. Psalm sixty-two To the choir master according to Jedhan, a psalm of David. For God alone my soul waits in silence. From him comes my salvation. He only is my rock in my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be greatly shaken. How long will all of you attack a man to batter him? Like a leaning wall, a tottering fence, they only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence. For my hope is from him. He only is my rock and my salvation. My fortress. I shall not be shaken. On God rests my salvation and my glory. My mighty rock. My refuge is God. Trust in Him at all times, O people. Pour out your hearts before Him. God is a refuge for us. Those of low estate are but a breath. Those of high estate are a delusion. And the balances they go up. They are together whiter than a breath. Put no trust in extortion. Set no vain hopes on robbery. If riches increase, set not your heart on them. Once God has spoken, twice have I heard this, that power belongs to God, and that to you, O Lord, belongs steadfast love. For ye will render to a man according to his work. This is the word of the Lord. There are some psalms that we come to and they wrap up nicely. They get to a place where there was Just this calamity, there were trials, there were challenges, there was distress, and by the end of the psalm, you see the answer given, you see the relief and the salvation experienced by the psalmist. Then you have other psalms that don't get to the relief, but they live in the midst of the challenge, in the midst of the trial. And Psalm 62 is one of those psalms. It gives us this reality. For the life of the believer, for the life of the Christian, for the life of one who belongs to the Lord, there are challenges. You can think of it like Psalm 23. There are those days where we walk, the Lord leads us to quiet waters, to green pastures. But you also have those times of the valley of the shadow of death. I love how Mike introduced the service this morning, that there are rainy days. And I I'm sure there are challenges that so many of you are facing right now. And it's it's probably not challenging to think of your challenges. They come to mind quickly. It could be physical things. It could be emotional burdens, struggles with anxiety or worry. It could be struggles with temper. It could be spiritual challenges and trials, threats, these burdens of ongoing sin struggles. But just don't feel like they're gonna release you. It could be relational. This conflict that you're going through with another person, or this conflict that you're you're walking beside another person, you're walking together, and it's just hard. Life is just difficult for you. And Psalm 62, in some ways, it's just a comfort in that you're not alone. This is common for believers. This is a common experience in this life. Psalm 62 is a greater comfort. The deepest comfort of the Psalm is this. Even in the midst of trials and threats and challenges, there is a reality of resting in the Lord. That even as these challenges are real, no less real is my God in whom I dwell. My God, whose promises are mine, who works his mighty strength for me and in me, whose love is set upon me. That is just as real as my challenges. And yet we all know it is it's a difficult thing to walk by faith To live that out, to hold just as firmly these these promises of God and these the God of these promises is mine just as surely as these challenges are mine. So we're going to walk through Psalm 62, and here David he weaves back and forth between the security of having God, the security and peace of being in the Lord. to the threats that are very real and present and felt by him. And we're going to do that weave that David himself does. And ultimately the the big picture if you're looking on the outline in your bulletin Is that by prayer, as we come to the Lord in the name of Jesus, we have the promises of God If I can pray in Jesus' name, I can be sure his promises are mine. His promises of security and peace. And even more than that, I can be sure that the God of every promise is mine and I am his. Before David looks at the threats and the challenges that are unsettling him, he goes into these two verses of rest and security. And even that structure is so valuable to recognize that David doesn't run and face his threats with this mindset, okay, I'm just going to think about them less Or I'm just going to run to an area where I feel a lot of control when everything feels like chaos. I'm going to run to a hobby or an escape. That's not what David does. Rather, he says, as I'm facing these threats, as I'm facing these challenges, what I need is to think more about God. I need the perspective that holds God first and above all. And that is exactly what he does in verses 1 and 2. Look how narrowed in he is on his God. For God alone, my soul waits in silence. He is singular in the hope that he is looking towards. He is singular in the place where he is looking for security and peace. God alone. And if you look in the next verse, he only is my rock and my salvation. He is so singularly set on his God. If I'm going to have any rest, any security, any peace in the midst of my threats, David is saying, it is going to come from one source. It will be from my God. And as David uses this word alone and only these words, he really sh is showing that there there are these other promises of security, these other sources that are never going to be enough. They're always going to be insufficient. They're always going to be too little. And yet he knows there's one who will never be He has a God who is enough. Who is enough for him in the midst of these challenges, in the midst of these threats. Just look at some of the language that David uses of God. That God is my salvation. He is my rescue. He is my deliverance. And ultimately, this looks to our greatest enemies. Of sin, of Satan, of death. And you can look at these things. Who is it that is going to rescue me from such dreadful enemies? My God is my salvation. He alone is my rescuer, my deliverer. He alone can bring me from the greatest enemies He alone can bring me my my relief. David calls God his rock. One of the the aspects that you run into in Hebrew poetry a lot is parallelism, that you'll have an idea brought up in one line, and then it's uh a very similar uh sister idea is brought up in the next line. And as we're thinking about this word rock, what does it mean that God is our rock? This is Deuteronomy 32, verse 4. The rock, talking about God. The rock, his work is perfect. For all his ways are justice. And here's the parallel to rock: a God of faithfulness. Without iniquity, just and upright is He. That for God to be our rock means that He is faithful. He is faithful. He does not fail. He faithfully meets all of his promises. He faithfully abides by and with his people. Never failing them. He is my rock, my salvation, my fortress. And as David says, I am found in my God. He is my fortress, my wall, my structure built around me. Be assured that and that alone means I will not be shaken. I will not be ultimately lost because my fortress is my God. And there is no opposing him. There is no breaking down these walls. There is no defeat of my God, and I am in him. He around me, sheltering me, shielding me. David is sure of his God. He's reminding himself of his God right in the midst of these challenges. But as you go on from there in verses 3 and 4, you see that that doesn't mean the challenges aren't real and the threats aren't felt. They are. David is very aware of them. He makes us cry right at the beginning. How long? And that is so, so relatable when it comes to challenges in life. We can put up with something for a couple minutes, we can put up with it for an hour, a day. But what about when days turn into weeks and weeks turn into months? And months a year. It just leaves this cry how long? Is this ever going to stop? Is this ever going to get better? Will I know any relief from this? Will this change? Challenges are persistent, they go on for long periods of time, but they're also pervasive, they're powerful, and as David looks on from there, he says All of you attack a man. It doesn't feel like it's coming from just one side, but it's all pervasive and pers It's just coming from everywhere. And that's so often how it feels that one thing on top of another is weighed upon us, one burden, one attack after another. When life starts to come after us, it comes after us from so many fronts. And David knows that feeling. All of it, all of it is coming against me. And he uses this picture of himself. I feel like a leaning wall, a tottering fence I've been in this high, this secure position, but now all of these things and how long they'll come I don't know, but they just feel like the end is going to be to smash me to pieces. The end feels like being lost. Like being shaken terribly and falling down hard. When I was in college, uh junior year, I was coming home from college and I had this pickup truck at the time and I just threw all my stuff in it pretty haphazardly, packing from college to drive home. And I was coming from western Pennsylvania down to uh Frederick, Maryland at the time. And as I started driving on the Pennsylvania Turnpike, I noticed this little trash bin that I had put in there was was shaking a little bit. But I I just put it out of mind, young college student, just turn the music up and forget about it, keep going. A little bit later, it it shifts just enough to catch the wind. And this thing shoots out of the truck like a rocket. It is gone. That is how our challenges sometimes leave us feeling. That we're this trash can just teetering on the brink, and it feels like the next gust of wind, the next challenge that hits us, is just going to be too much. And we will be gone, we will be lost. And David knows that experience. That is how these trials are making him feel. We see in his life that these are attacks against him. There are those who are blessing him with their mouths, but clearly their hearts are set against him, cursing him. And some of us probably know what it is to be attacked by others, but whether it's attacks from a person or just these challenges, these trials that come up in life, they leave us feeling shaken Insecure. And as David experiences this in verses 5 through 8, he turns again to security. And it's good to notice in verse 5, it is almost the exact same wording at this the very beginning of the song. David is using repetition here, but there is a change. In the beginning, he stated it just as truth, for God alone my soul waits in silence. But now he's turning it to a command. He is battling in his challenges. Find rest. Oh God, for God alone, O my soul, wait in silence. And this idea of waiting, of resting, it's this stillness. Be still. If you know Psalm 46, it's that same word, be still and know that I am God. And David, in the midst of the loud challenges and threats of life, how how present they are in his mind, he is really fighting to be still before his God. To remember his God, to think about who his God has promised and proven himself to be for David. That's a fight. That is not something that just happens. He is fighting for this. He's commanding his whole. Think about it. Be still. Meditate on your God. There are so many distractions in life. Life is filled with them. And here David is fighting to just be still and know his God. For all the threats, for all the challenges, he is seeking to remember his Lord. As he's doing this, there's there's a lesson to be learned from the little engine that could. He's going up that hill pulling this huge weight and it's just a refrain over and over and over again. I think I can. I think I can. I think I can. And David uses that repetition. He repeats the same promises. He repeats the same titles that God has given to him to use. of his God. My salvation, my fortress, my rock. Wait for the Lord, O my soul. And it's very, very rare that God says something to us and it sinks in all the way, deep down, just in that one saying. And especially passages that deal with anxiety and worry and trials. Those are passages that are very, very repetitive in the promises of God. And in the titles that God gives us of Himself. You can think of Philippians 4, of offering our anxieties up to God in prayer. And the peace of God will be with us. But then just shortly after that, the God of peace will be with us. Repetitive And when Jesus is talking to his disciples in the Sermon on the Man in Matthew 6, and he says to them, Do not worry. He says it multiple times, do not worry. Do not worry. And he uses the same title of God multiple times, your Father in Heaven. We need repetition We don't drink all of our water for a day in one sitting. We do it throughout the day. And we need these regular drinkings, these regular remindings, who is our God for us. us. What are the promises that He has made that belong to me and my God? Where the little engine that could fails us is that there's some uncertainty there. And there's a self-look. I think I can. But there's always a question in that, right? I think I can't. I hope I can't. That's not how God presents Himself to us in any way. Uncertainty of I think I can for David gives way to I know he can. I am sure of my God And look how David owns his God. How God has given himself to David. My hope, my rock, my salvation, my fortress, my salvation, my glory, my mighty rock, my refuge is God. God. David is absolutely sure I am my God's, and my God is mine. And David knows at this point God has made a covenant with him. He has bound himself to David. The two of them are tied and tethered together. We'll look at this a little bit more later on. But know that that is not true of any of us by nature. By nature, we are those far off. But what does our God do for us in Christ Jesus? Those far off, brought near through the blood of Christ. The words we hear so often as we take the Lord's Supper, this is the new covenant in my blood. That God gives assurances to his people. He is ours, he is mine, and I am his. By his great power, by his great mercy, and my beloved As David uh sees this, as David starts to know who God is, as he reminds himself of who God is for him, he turns that outside. In verse 8. Trust in Him at all times, O people. Pour out your hearts to Him. Don't hide your challenges, don't hide your trials before the Lord, but bear them before a God so good. A God so gracious, a God who is a refuge and rest for his people. He is saying, Oh, taste and see that this God, my God, He is good He is the rest to be had. In verses 9 and 10, it again turns to threats and challenges. And these are more the threats of distraction. The threats of I'm going to turn somewhere else than the Lord. I have this challenge going on, and it just feels like I have to do something, I have to have something. And so you turn, you fly to that. And David does not discriminate here He is saying, low-born, highborn, whether a person is great, whether they're small, they are but a breath. If they're on a balance, the other side is going down, not them. They're not the weighty ones. They hold no ultimate power, no ultimate substance. David is saying the the threat, the lack of not having that challenge It's not met with having something else, having someone else, having something else. That's just to change one anxiety for another. An anxiety of not having a feeling like we're shaken and without. to an anxiety of having something, but always wondering, is that something enough? Is that something going to be strong enough to keep me, to provide for me? And David looks at some of the vain hopes that we have of wealth, of possession, and says, that is not enough. That is Insecure is not weighty enough. We need something deeper. We need someone stronger And David, in that need, turns to him who is above any other. He turns to him who is great. If your Bible is open, you can look just at the last Psalm. And this is what David says there. In the second half of verse 2, lead me to the rock that is higher than I I don't need myself. I don't need another. I need someone higher still. I need my God. Him. And him alone. He is the rock that is faithful and sure. And Isaiah 44, verses 6, and then I'll jump to verse 8. This is what God says to us. I am the first, and I am the last. Beside me there is no God. Who is like me? Let him proclaim it. Is there a God beside me? There is no rock. I know not any God knows everything. And He knows no other rock than Himself. No other sure fortress than Himself And at the end of this psalm, David again weaves back to the security. In verses eleven and twelve. He reminds us of these two precious deep truths of God. That God is powerful, he is strong, and he is loving. This is what John Calvin wrote about this. There can be, and just think about this as you are going through anxieties and worries in your life. There can be no security felt unless we satisfy ourselves of the truth of a divine superintendence. And can commit our lives and all that we have to the hands of God. The first thing which we must look to is his power. That we may have a thorough conviction of his being a sure refuge to such as cast themselves upon his care. With this, there must be joined confidence in his mercy to prevent those anxious thoughts which might otherwise rise in our minds Calvin is saying what God has told to us, that for relief I must know these two truths about God. That he is powerful and strong. He is able to help. And that he is loving and will help. He is able. One of him says again and again. He is able. He is able. He is able. He is willing. Doubt no more. And God is strong, He is able, and He is loving, He is willing. Fly, fly to such a good God. And by prayer, what we do as we bring our trials, as we pour out our hearts to God, It's a conversation that God has begun with us. He has first spoken to us. He has given these promises of himself to us. And by prayer, we lay hold of the promises that God has made to us. We latch on to them. Even more than that, better than that, we latch on to the God of all promises. We latch on to Him Himself. I say he is mine, and I am his, and the assurance you have The only assurance you can have that that is true and not just wishful thinking is as you end your prayers in Jesus' Nay. How can I be sure that I am his, that all these things are mine, just as they were David's? Not just wishful thinking. Only in the Lord Jesus Christ. And it is in the Lord Jesus that we see power and strength mixed perfectly with love. The cross looks like foolishness, Paul says. To the world, it looks foolish. It looks like a loss. But when John is in heaven in Revelation, he's seeing this glory image. He's weeping because there's this scroll that can't be opened. It's sealed with seven seals. No one in heaven or on earth or under the earth is able to open the scroll or even look inside of it. And he's weeping. God's purpose is they're not going to move forward. It's not going to be fulfilled. What hope is there? And an elder says to him, Do not weep. See, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has triumphed. John looks and sees not a lion, but a lamb looking as though it had been slain. A cross of Christ that looks foolish and weak to the world is the very power of God to redeem his people. to make a people his very own. Once you were far off, once you were not a people, well how do you become a people? By the blood of the Lamb poured out for you. By the coming of a strong and loving Savior to claim and bring you near to God, not as enemies, but as beloved children. You come near, you own these promises Because Christ the Redeemer has come. A new covenant is in his blood, and he makes you gods, and the promise that God gives to his people. I will be your God. And you will be my people. God Himself giving Himself to us And it is in the strength of our Lord that he does that. And it is the love of God that causes the cross to happen at all. That the Father would love us and give his son for us. That the Son would love us and give his life for us. Love and strength met together at the cross and redeemed the people to be the very possession of God. And if you are in Christ, that is you. And if you are here this morning and you have not laid hold of Christ by faith, trusted him who died and rose again to save you, these things aren't yours. Life is very insecure. But even now, turn to him who is evil and willing to save. Lay hold of him. And the last verse of this psalm, it it may sound a little out of place or may leave us a little a little shaken at times. Surely the Lord will reward each person according to what he has done. As you're thinking about David praying this psalm, when he's thinking about his enemies, This would be a great comfort. Lord, see see what they're doing against me. Do justice against those against you. That's what he's praying. Turn what is crooked straight and right. There's also the side of it, Lord, see that my heart is steadfast, that I am seeking after you. I am pursuing you. As David sings this, there's this way that he could sing that line. Our Lord Jesus sings this as well, and can sing it. At the cross, we read in 1 Peter 2, 23, he entrusted himself to him who judges. But the son entrusted himself to the Father, saying, See, Lord, what is being done here. Behold it The Lord Jesus can also say to the Father, see, I give myself for you. My heart is blameless. I am righteous. He cries out to him, and in Hebrews we hear he's heard because of his reverence, his submission. Our Lord Jesus is recognized. His righteousness is seen by the Father, and he is well pleased. with the Son. And we know that perfectly now because where is our Lord now? He is at the right hand of God the Father. His is the name that is above every name. He is the one before whom every knee will bow. Why? Because he became obedient even to death. On a cross. And as our Lord Jesus is in heaven now, and he is saying the Lord will give to each man according to his works, he knows I have been given the name that is above every name. The scepter is mine. I am the one in Psalm 110 that was prophesied, anticipated. The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I put you Your enemies under your feet. And our Lord is the strong and triumphant Lord at the right hand of the Father now. And a strong and loving Lord who is at the right hand of God the Father. What is his inheritance? What is our Lord Jesus' inheritance? He has surely done this for the glory of God His inheritance is his people. That he has done this. And the inheritance he will receive is his precious people. broad. And just think of your strong and loving Lord. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He is in heaven now. Your security rests in him. He is strong and loving now. He who defeated death and Satan. He defeated sin, who rescued those captive. He is the one who by his strength and love keeps us till the And will keep us forevermore. When I was in high school, I'll close with Jess's short story. My my friend and I, we went to this pickup day at the local high school and the basketball gym and it was this the series of pickup basketball games that were going on and teams weren't decided until you actually got there As we got there and we were watching people warm up, there was this this kid, and I'm sure I was watching him with eyes as big as saucers As he's warming up, he's just nailing every shot, and then he goes up and he dunks it. Right? And my thought that day was, I want to be on his team. I want him on my team. As you are going through threats and you're going through challenges, as life is far too much for you at times. And you're weak, and you feel teetering, about to be blown away, you want a teammate. You want one who is for you, who is great Who is able and willing. If you are in the Lord Jesus, you have. You have Him. One strong, one loving When able, when willing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we praise you that you care for your people. We praise you that even our our threats, our valleys of the shadow of death, they are known to you. That you care about them. You are invested in us. You care deeply for us. We thank you that you have proven your love for us at the cross and that you have proven your power to save. at the cross. Lord, we we have only one hope, only one rock, only one salvation. We rejoice that we need no other. Lord Jesus, you are enough, able and willing. But you uh cause us to fight, fight for rest, fight for waiting in you, fight to repeat your promises to our own souls When we're in turmoil, when we're feeling the threats of life, when we're insecure, let us come back again and again to drink from the water of life, the spring of living water, from you, our marvelous Savior. Lord, we thank you that you have brought us far off near. That you yourself are our God and we are your possession. As we think of your promises of security, and you, the God of all security, we thank you that we end our prayers in Jesus' name.