Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church We're in the last part of John chapter 4 today, looking at Jesus' encounter with this official. And we're asking the question, what do we need to see in order to believe? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for giving your son to save us. Lord Jesus, thank you for giving your life, for our forgiveness, for our justification. Holy Spirit, thank you for bringing us to Christ. That we might have life and every spiritual blessing in Him. Be with us today as we are in your word. Teach us and grow us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. John 4, 46-54. So he came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. So Jesus said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. The official said to him, Sir, come down before my child dies. Jesus said to him, Go, your son will live. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him. And went on his way. As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering. So he asked them the hour when it began to get better, and he said to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour, the fever left him. The Father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, Your Son will live And he himself believed, and all his household, this was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee. You know, people say seeing is believing. Many people claim to believe in God. Many people say, well, I would believe in God if He would show himself to me You know, write it on the sky. I think it was Bertrand Russell, a famous atheist professor, who was asked what evidence he would need to believe in God. And he said, I don't know, maybe if we discovered the Ten Commandments written on the dark side of the moon, like something that was irrefutable evidence. Although at that point I think atheists would probably go back to their alien theories, you know, that human life really came implanted by aliens and that aliens helped the Egyptians build the pyramids. And so hey, maybe aliens put the Ten Commandments on the dark side of the moon because if you don't want to believe, there's no amount of seeing evidence that's going to cause you to believe. Some people said if they were there to see Jesus perform miracles, if they were there to see Jesus walk on water, if they were there to see Jesus feed the 5,000, then they would believe in Jesus. But most of the people who were actually there and saw Jesus do these things didn't believe. They didn't come and follow him, even though they were fed miraculously by him. So Here we have a man in Galilee. Galilee is the area where Jesus did his main ministry around the Sea of Galilee, and particularly to the west of the Sea of Galilee. He's in Cana. It's the place where he did his first miracle. He's come back. There's a an official, a Roman official from the town of Capernaum, which is where Jesus really has his headquarters for his ministry. And he comes and he says, you know, my son's at the point of death. Please come and heal him. And Jesus rebukes him, unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. But then later we see that this man actually believes in response to the word of God. When Jesus says, Go, your son will live. We read in verse 50, the man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him. and went on his way. Here John is setting up two different kinds of so-called faith. In John's Gospel, if you read carefully, not everybody who believes really believes. Some people believe but with a superficial and unstable faith that's really not saving faith, that's not really life-changing faith. And then there are those who really come to believe. And sometimes coming to believe actually takes place in stages like it does with this official. But John often contrasts what's called sign faith. Against what's called word faith. In other words, faith that's provoked by a sign, by a miracle. Wow, look at that miracle. This Jesus guy, he's got to be the Messiah. That's sign faith. Word faith is actually what this Caperna official shows. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him. And went on his way, believing the word of God and obeying. Jesus said, Go, your son will live. He believed the word that Jesus spoke. He went on his way. This is much better. Word faith is much, much better than sign faith consistently throughout the Gospel of John. Jesus rebukes his generation for the seeing his believing mindset. He rebukes them saying, unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. In part because he knows that that kind of faith is unstable, it's dependent upon circumstances, it's not rooted in the Word of God and the character of God, it's rooted in our own subjective perceptions of things. And it doesn't hold up under trial. But this man, he believes the word of Jesus, he obeys, he goes home, and then having already acted, By faith, in the Word of Jesus, he gets a confirmation of that word by asking when the fever left him, and he's told yesterday at the seventh hour, he's like, Oh, that's exactly when Jesus said it was going to be. then his faith is further deepened. So faith, that's word faith, can be strengthened by external evidence It can be strengthened by what we see, but genuine saving faith is generally not produced just by what we see. So it's If we want people to come to faith in Jesus, should we pray that God would do a miracle and show them unmistakable proof of who He is? Or should we pray that the Holy Spirit would open the eyes of their heart to see and understand that the Word of God is in fact from God is truth is to be believed that they might hear and believe. You see, seeing is believing. Mmm, that's superficial, that's circumstantial, that's unstable, that's unreliable. Hearing The Word and having faith. That's what the Bible points us to, not only in John's Gospel, but in Romans 10. Faith comes by hearing and hearing the Word of Christ. Faith comes by hearing, not faith comes by. So there's plenty of evidence. Even in Jesus' day, he comes back to Canaan Galilee where he had made water wine. There's not a lack of evidence. You can step outside into God's creation. Look up at the sky. Look around at the trees and the grass and the birds and flowers. Just Study God's creation, realize like the the migratory paths of hummingbirds, or the life cycle and flight path of the monarch butterfly, or anything. Look at your own human body, the heart, and what a miraculous pump that is, and how awesome is the human hand. I mean, there's just so much evidence. There's not a lack of evidence. So people say, if only I could see a miracle, I would believe. It's like look in the mirror. Look outside. The evidence is all around you. The problem isn't the evidence or lack of evidence. The problem is our willingness to believe, our readiness to believe, our hearts. In other words, the problem is not primarily our heads, but our hearts. It's not primarily our eyes, but our ears. Are we willing to believe? Are we willing to receive? The Word of God. That's what we need to pray for for people. So we need to pray. If there's unbelievers in our lives that we're sharing the gospel with and we want to see them come to faith in Jesus, yes, we can present evidence to them. And we can tell them our own testimony and the evidence of what God's done in our lives. But really we need to be praying for them. Praying that God would change their hearts. Praying that God would give them an openness to hearing the word of God. And then we need to to get the word of God to them because it's the word of God that really brings true and saving faith when God's when God has prepared the heart of the person to receive it. So so pray and then give the word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son, who is the Word of God made flesh. who came with the full authority of your word into this world. Thank you for your scripture, for the Bible, which is your word given to us. It's given to us for believers to grow. It's given to us to also convince and convert sinners to Christ. May we pray faithfully and present the Word of God faithfully. that you may do the work of grace and salvation in the lives of those we love. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope today's lesson was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me tomorrow as we go into John chapter 5. Have a blessed day in the Lord.