Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Good to be with you as we come to our last day of this ninth week, day five. We're in the second half of Matthew 19, verses 16 to 30. We're asking this question, are we required to sell all of our possessions and give our money to the poor? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Please teach us your word. Help us to receive it by faith, to believe it, to live it, and love for you and all that you've done for us in Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. Matthew 19, verses 16 to 30. And behold, a man came up to him, saying, Teacher, what good deed must I do to have eternal life? And he said to him, Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus said, You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, honor your father and mother, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All these I have kept. What do I still lack? Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go. Sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me. When the young man heard this, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished, saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. Then Peter said in reply, See, we have left everything and followed you. What then will we have? Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, in the new world When the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel, and every one who has left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or lands for my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. But many who are first will be last And the last first. So today's passage contains two of the most famous and misunderstood things that Jesus ever said about rich people. First is his instruction to the rich young man to go, sell what you possess and give it to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And then after The rich young man went away sorrowful, Jesus explains, it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of heaven, taken by themselves, out of context. These two famous lines from Jesus seem to indicate that salvation is impossible for rich people. The only hope for a rich person seems to be found in becoming poor, selling all his possessions and giving it all away to the poor Is this what Jesus means? That rich people cannot go to heaven? Well, we need to see two points of clarification to get some context. First of all, the rich young man had claimed to be morally blameless according to the law in verse 20. Thus it seems likely that Jesus was exposing his idolatry to him. and showing him what real what his real God was, which is his wealth. Notice Jesus only asked him about the second table of the law, the love your neighbor as yourself horizontal stuff. He didn't ask him whether he loves God with all his heart, mind, soul, and strength and whether he had honored God in that way. Asking him to sell his possessions was exposing the fact that although he had been scrupulous on a moral level, He had a false God. And then right after Jesus says how difficult it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of heaven, his disciples ask, who then can be saved? And Jesus' response here was all-inclusive when he said, With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. With these two points of clarifying context, we can now see what Jesus is teaching in these verses and how it matches the rest of what Scripture says about salvation, which is first of all, that no one can save themselves by keeping the law. Second, we all have idols that keep us from the worship of the one true God. And third, only God's grace can change our hearts, remove our idols, forgive our sins, and grant us eternal life So is it hard for rich people to be saved? No, it's not hard. It's impossible. But no more than for anybody else. Do rich people need to sell their possessions and give their wealth to the poor? Maybe, if their wealth is an idol. But all of us need to pray for the grace of God to get rid of all of our heart idols, to throw them away that we might worship God alone. Let's turn to Psalm 46. Psalm 46 is written to the choir master from the sons of Korah. According to the Alhamoth, it's a song. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth give way Though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling, there is a river. whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God will help her when morning dawns. The nations rage, the kingdom's totter. He utters his voice, the earth melts. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Come, behold the works of the Lord, how he has brought desolations on the earth. He makes wars cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow and shatters the spear. He burns the chariots with fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, we cannot save ourselves. We cannot keep ourselves. But you are our refuge and strength, a very present help in times of trouble. You are the rock. You are our salvation. You not only protect us from our enemies, but you alone can change our hearts, so that we love you as we should, so that we are dedicated to you as we should be, so that we hide ourselves in you as we should when the storms come. There is a stream whose rivers make glad the city of God. That's a picture of your Holy Spirit who comes to make us glad with you, O Lord. So make us glad with Jesus. Make us glad in your presence. Change our hearts and keep us from our enemy. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me. That's the end of week nine here on Walking with Jesus and the Gospels. Next week we're going to turn our Attention to Matthew chapter 20. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.