Amen. Turn with me, please, to the Book of Romans, chapter one Romans chapter 1, if you want to use a church Bible, you'll find it on page 939. That's not true, is it? I don't know. I put it there. I don't know if it's right or not. It is right. Margaret's giving me the affirmation. I don't know why it didn't sound right to me. We're beginning a 30-part sermon series in the book of Romans today, Lord willing. We will finish the last Sunday in May, just before I go on my sabbatical. I'm very excited to preach this book. Wonderful, powerful book. I'm praying that the Lord will strengthen us and transform us through his word as we hear it together. So let's begin. Romans 1, verses 1 through 7. This is the Word of God. Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus. Called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. concerning his son, who was descended from David according to the flesh, and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead. Jesus Christ our Lord Through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations. including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we stand on the precipice of this most wonderful and powerful letter that you inspired Breathed out from you through the Apostle Paul, we pray that you would speak to us through it. We pray that this word would be written on our hearts and that Christ would become more clear and more richly precious to us, and that you would make us more like Him. And that we would follow in the example of the Apostle Paul as those who are set apart for the gospel, those who are called to be saints. Would you do your work among us through your word this morning and throughout this series? We pray. In Jesus' name and for his sake, amen. He may be seated. So how do we start off a new sermon series? I thought maybe we'd start with kind of a light and easy two-part question. Nothing too heavy to start with. Just a light and easy two-part question. Here it is. Why are we here? And what are we supposed to be doing with the life we have? So that shouldn't take more than five minutes to cover. Okay, maybe it's not that light and easy, but that's the question, right? What's the meaning of life? Why are we here? What are we supposed to be doing with our lives? How do we get here? What do we do now? Where are we going? How do we answer those kinds of big, heavy, important questions? And how does the answer to those sort of big questions impact our everyday lives, how we live practically day by day. Well, we're beginning now a series in the book of Romans. Romans is the single most important letter that has ever been written in the history of the world. And that is true whether you believe that Romans is the Word of God or not. It's just objectively, historically true that the book of Romans is the single most important letter. that has ever been written in the history of the world. And the reason why is that Romans contains for us the most comprehensive and most systematic explanation of the Christian faith and of the Christian understanding of reality. It has changed lives of people who have then gone on to change the world. And Christianity It is not only the largest religion in the world, but it is also the single most influential belief system in the history of the world. And if you want to say, well, what is Christianity all about? What is the essence? What is what is The heart of Christianity. It is the heart of what is in the book of Romans from beginning to end, and in a single word, it is the gospel. The gospel. In introducing himself to the Roman church, Paul identifies himself as a man who has been set apart for the gospel. You know, in our summer series that we had through the Psalms, we saw how David loved the word HECD, the word That was translated in our Bibles as steadfast love. David loved the steadfast love of the Lord. It was precious to him. It was the heart of God. For his people and for David, that was the heart of his passion and his desire. For Paul, the defining and driving passion of his life is the gospel. We saw that steadfast love appears in the Psalms of David many, many times. David wrote 73 Psalms. Sorry, David wrote, yeah, 73 Psalms. And the gospel appears in, I'm sorry, the word steadfast love, the word tested, appears 51 times in those 73 Psalms. It's very important. It's a most important word for David. Here in Romans, we have 16 chapters of this most important letter, and Paul refers to the gospel 25 times. In those 16 letters. And beyond the word gospel, he refers to grace nine times, to salvation eleven times, and to justification twenty times. Put them all together. That's 65 references to the gospel and what's at the very heart of the gospel in 16 chapters. And so it's centrally important. Well, how are these two things related? Chesed from David, Gospel from Paul? How are these two words related to each other? Well, steadfast love is the heart of God toward his people And gospel is the good news of how God has acted decisively in Jesus Christ to reveal his steadfast love and save his people. So Hesed is the heart of God for his people and gospel is the good news of what God has done. In history, through Jesus Christ, to show us, fully manifest his steadfast love, and to save us. One level, understanding the gospel is very simple. The gospel is the good news of salvation. That's it. Like that's the gospel in a nutshell. It's the good news of salvation. But on a deeper level, it's going to take us the 16 chapters of Romans to explain, unpack, and apply the gospel to our lives. Because, like Sheped, it's a simple and yet deeply profound concept. So let me give you an overview of the book of Romans as an unfolding of the gospel. First, Paul introduces and defines the gospel in Romans 1, verses 1 to 17. Then, starting in verse 18, he pivots to explaining why the gospel is necessary, giving us the bad news of sin and the wrath of God, starting in 118 and going to 320. Why the gospel is necessary. Then he gives us a very succinct explanation of the gospel in one of the most important and powerful paragraphs ever written, and that is chapter 3, verses 21. That one paragraph is absolutely key. He follows this by explaining justification by faith, which is at the heart of what the gospel does. For us before God, and that's unfolded in chapters four and five. He then explains how the gospel frees us from sin and calls us to live for righteousness in chapter 6. He explains how the gospel is better than the law in chapter 7. He then brilliantly explains The freeing and keeping power of the gospel in chapter 8, which you might know is my favorite chapter in the Bible. He then explains what the gospel means for the Jewish people in chapters 9 to 11. Then a major pivot comes in 12. 1, where he switches from explaining the gospel to then applying the gospel. Romans 12 is a brilliant overview of the application of the gospel to the life of the believer. Chapter 13 deals with how the gospel shapes our relationship with the government and with the moral law of God. Romans 14 tells us how we live out the gospel in community with stronger and weaker believers when we don't agree on every issue. Romans 15 shows us the heart of Paul's desire to take the gospel to the nations. And finally, Romans 16 is a portrait of gospel community through real people and their relationships and roles in the church. So that's that's how the gospel is unfolded and unpacked in Rome. It's the two big chunks Very simple, right? Gospel explained in chapters 1 through 11. Gospel applied in chapters 12 to 16. So first he's going to explain and unpack the gospel in 1 through 11, then he's going to apply the gospel in 12 to 16. But first things first, the very first word we have in the book of Romans is Paul. So who is Paul? Who is the author of Romans? And how is he qualified to have written the greatest letter that's ever been written in the history of the world? The very first way that Paul identifies himself in Romans is Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, or more precisely, a slave of Christ Jesus. It's the word doulos in Greek, which is the most common word for slave. Someone who is bought and paid for and put it to work in the service of another. That's how Paul sees himself first and foremost. He is a slave of Christ Jesus. That is the Messiah Jesus. who is his Lord and Master. He calls him later Jesus Christ, our Lord. Jesus the Messiah, our Lord and Master. Now this is really remarkable. This is a most amazing opening of a letter. Because earlier in his life, Paul A slave of the Messiah Jesus was known as Saul of Tarsus, the most intense persecutor of the church. This was a guy who stood by and held the coats of the Sanhedrin as they stoned Sanhedrin. Stephen to death in ru in Acts 7, the very first martyr in the history of the church. He was approving and he was helping. Oh, you're going to stone this Christian to death for believing this nonsense that Jesus is the Messiah? Let me help you out. Let me hold your coat so you can have more freedom of range to pelt this guy to death. And then he goes out after that. He gets letters of commission from the Sanhedrin. He goes out arresting Christians. Because the one thing he knew was that Jesus was a fraud. And that the people who believed in him were deceiving people and they needed to be stopped. So he was determined to stop them. He went out with letters from the Sanhedrin, he had authority. to arrest and imprison Christians, and that's what he did. That's what he was committed to doing. And here we see him A slave? Of the Jesus he had condemned as a fraud? Writing to a church of Christians that he once persecuted? How does this happen? You know, we don't often think about this, but Paul leaving his role as a persecutor As a young disciple of the Sanhedrin, leaving that role to becoming a proclaimer of the gospel, going from being a persecutor to a proclaimer, it cost him everything. Everything he had, everything he knew, all the connections, all the status was taken away from him at once. Why would he do that? On a human level, it makes no sense whatsoever, which is why it requires an explanation that is greater than a human level The only thing that could change Paul this way is what happened to him, and that is he met the Lord Jesus Christ. He met the risen and glorious Lord Jesus who shone with a glory that was greater than the noonday sun. We've got our Sunday school class started today on preparation for glory, preparing for glory. You know, he Jesus, the Jesus, the risen Jesus who stopped Paul on the road to Damascus was glorious, shining with a glory brighter than the noonday sun, blinded him. And set him apart, told him, I'm going to send you out with my gospel. And that changed everything for Paul. So that's why Paul could identify himself as one who has been called to be an apostle. There are some people in the world today who like to take the title apostle. Don't believe such people. That's not something they're allowed to do, because to be an apostle is to be personally called And commissioned by the risen glorious Christ, sent out with his authority to proclaim his gospel and expand his kingdom. And that's what Paul's role was. But notice that for Paul, his calling as an apostle is secondary to his primary role as a slave of Jesus Christ. He is bought and paid for and belongs body and soul in life and in death to his faithful Savior Jesus Christ who has called him to be an apostle. It's so important that we get those things right. You know, sometimes people ask me, what do you do? I'm a pastor. Okay, I'm a pastor of the church. But the pat being a pastor is not my primary identity. By God's grace, I am a slave of Jesus Christ, bought and paid for. So no matter what God calls you to in terms of your earthly calling, that's secondary. to your core identity. If you believe in Jesus, if you belong to Jesus, your core identity is that you are a slave of Christ Jesus. You belong to Him. He purchased you for His kingdom, for His glory. And that should humble you, but also make you realize that you belong to the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and there's nothing in this world that can take you away from him. So what is this gospel that he was set apart for? Well, it's going to take us months to fully unpack all the implications of this. But the word gospel in Greek is the word ewangalion. It means good news or a good announcement. And it was a common word that would have been well known to people in the Roman Empire, especially people in Rome. Because in Rome the emperor and the royal court was always making Yuangaleon. They were always making these good news announcements, these glad proclamations And basically what it was is here's the king making announcement of something that has happened or something that is happening that's going to bring a benefit and a blessing to all the people who are under the reign of the king. Sometimes it was a victory over enemies. Hey, good news, Yuangaleon, gospel proclamation. Here it is. We defeated the Huns in a great battle, or we defeated the Franks in a great battle. Victory to the Empire, which means benefit and blessing to you because the Empire is going to expand and we're going to get wealthier. Sometimes it was just Good news, the Emperor's having a birthday, and he's going to celebrate by having 30 days of bread and circuses. So there's free shows at the Coliseum and free food for everybody That's a Ewangalian. It's a good news. It's a glad announcement of something the king is doing or has done that benefits everybody under his reign. Paul talks about being set apart for the gospel of God. So what good news does God have? Well, it's good news of what God has done that brings benefit and blessing to his whole realm, which is the whole world. It's all the nations. Sometimes people have a misunderstanding of the Bible on a very basic level, and they think that the Old Testament is all about Israel and what God was doing for Israel and and then the New Testament is all about the nations and the church. But we saw in Psalm 96, if you were paying attention earlier, that even in the Old Testament God was concerned about his glory among all the nations, and that all the peoples of the earth would come to know him. So God has always been God of the whole earth, and He's always been concerned with the whole world, and He's always reigned over the whole world. This gospel of God is concerning his son, according to verse 3. It's concerning his son. So the gospel is God's good news for the world. That is good news about his son, about Jesus the Messiah, our Lord and our Master. Now, in this opening section, Paul does not really define what the gospel is, but he's going to do it in a few weeks. We will get to verses 16 and 17. And there, you'll see in the ESV it's set apart as its own section. Verses 16 and 17 is the definition of the gospel and what makes it good news. Now, don't worry. And so we're going to get there in a few weeks. It's not like I'm going to preach multiple sermons between now and then. I'm not preaching next week. Because Jacob Lee is preaching. I'm not preaching the week after next either. So it'll be a few weeks before I preach my next sermon in Rome. So I'll think, oh no, it's going to take us a month to get through five verses. No, we're not going to go at that pace. We could. Some have, but we're not going to do it that way. Um so he's going to give us the definition. He doesn't really do that yet, and I don't want to, you know, I don't want to preach sixteen and seventeen before we get there. But the substance of the gospel, he tells us, is Jesus. It's concerning Jesus. It's about Jesus. And that's important. Hear this. The gospel of God Is not, first and foremost, good news about you. The gospel of God is first and foremost good news about Jesus Some people read the Bible and they don't get much out of it because they think it should be all about them Maybe someone told them, oh, it's life's little instruction book, or it's the owner's manual for your life. Now I open the owner's manual on my car. And it's the owner's manual for my car, and it tells me all about my car. So if someone says, oh, the Bible, it's the owner's manual for your life, and you think I'm going to open it up and read all about my life, no. The Bible is the story of the good news, of who God is, and of what he's doing in the world. The gospel is about Jesus. Americans don't always like that. And some people have said, well, if you want to have a successful ministry in America, you have to sort of tweak it. You've got to sort of rework it, repackage it. Now this can be done in extremely bad ways. I've heard Christian pastors who have said that the gospel is basically God believes in you. And you should believe in yourself too. Now that is straight up blasphemy If anyone tells you God believes in you, just say, I'm sorry, you got that completely backwards. I believe in God, and that's completely Really important. God doesn't put his faith in me. I put my faith in him because he is faithful And he's not stupid enough to put his faith in me, who is not faithful. I'm the problem, he's the solution. I'm the one who needs help, he's the help. But other people have said it in less blasphemous ways and have said, well, the beginning of the gospel is God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. It's true that God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son that whoever believes in him will not perish, but have everlasting life. It's true that the gospel has wonderful blessings and benefits for everyone who believes, but it doesn't really begin with you. It begins with Jesus. It's about Jesus. But how do we know it's true? That's another thing that Paul addresses right here up front. You know, these people in Rome, they knew. It's like people who live in D. C. Who best understands that everything the government says isn't necessarily 100% reliable? People who live in DC were like that close to the government, like, uh government says something. Okay, so not to be cynical about the government, but um that's been true about all human governments throughout all human history because it's true about all people Like everything we say is not always 100% reliable. So they would know that. Yuangaleon from the Emperor wasn't always true. Or reliable, or didn't always carry the benefits that it was supposed to carry. So how do we know that the gospel of God, that when the God of the universe has a Yuan Galeam, when He has a good news, that we can actually believe it Well, Paul, right here at the beginning, he states two reasons why we can know that the gospel is true. In verse 2 He says it was promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. And then in verse 4, it says that Jesus was declared to be the Son of God in power by his resurrection from the dead. We have the promise of God in the scriptures, and we have the resurrection of Jesus from the dead as two proofs. That the gospel is true good news. So the testimony of Scripture. The Scripture he's talking about, the Scriptures beforehand, is what we call the Old Testament. The Old Testament was finished being written about 400 years before Jesus was born. So that's like a document that for us was finished in like the 1600s. It was refinished before Jesus was born. Most of it dates back to 700 to 1,500 years before Jesus was born. And yet The promises of these scriptures concerning the Messiah were clear and precise. I'm going to give you a list of some of them. First, he would come from Abraham's line through Isaac, the child of promise. Second, he would come from the tribe of Judah. And third, he would be born to the line of David. That's why verse 3 says he was descended from David according to the flesh. So God's narrowing it down. Of all the peoples of the world, it's got to be Abraham's descendants. Of Abraham's descendants, it's got to be Isaac's. Of Isaac's descendants, it's got to be Judah. Of Judah's descendants, it's got to be Dav Fourth, he would be born of a virgin. Fifth, he would be born in Bethlehem. Sixth, he would have a ministry in Galilee. Seventh, he would be anointed, as he was at his baptism. Eighth, he would teach in parables. Ninth, he would ride into Jerusalem on a donkey. Tenth, he would be betrayed for thirty pieces of silver. 11th, he would have pierced hands and feet. 12th, the soldiers would cast lots for his clothing. Thirteenth, he would be beaten, crushed, and striped for our sins and our transgressions. Fourteenth, his body would not see corruption in the grave. Fifteenth, he would be buried in the tomb of a rich man. 16, he would see the light of life and be satisfied. Those are 16. I could actually give you more, but those are 16 specific prophecies about the life of the Messiah from the Old Testament. There was a mathematician years ago named Peter Stoner who specializes in probability, and so he he calculated the probability of just eight. of these specific messianic prophecies all meeting in one person by chance alone. What are the odds that just by chance eight of these things would be true of one person? And the odds are 1 in 10 to the 17th power. That's a 1 with 17 zeros after it. But I didn't give you 8, I gave you 16. And so the odds of them being right about 16 are 1 in 10 to the 34th power. That's 1 in 100,000 quintillion. That's the odds. One in a hundred thousand quintillion. You can't wrap your minds around this. I'll give you an illustration. Last night we had the Powerball Lottery. Not that any of us should play the lottery. Here's why you shouldn't play the lottery. The odds of winning the Powerball are one in 292 million. You have a greater chance of being struck by lightning while being eaten by a shark than you do of winning the Powerball. It's It's astronomically 1 in 292 million, okay, to win the Powerball once The odds of one person by chance fulfilling all 16 of these prophecies is the same as the odds of winning the Powerball four times in a row. We've gone from the realm of highly unlikely to just flat out impossible. But nothing is impossible with God. Because with God, the odds of God keeping his promises are 100%. He will not leave any promise unfulfilled. And what I see in those sixteen prophecies is if God ensured If God ensured that nails went through the hands and feet of his son, that the soldiers cast lots for his clothing, that he ended up in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, a rich member of the Sanhedrin that had just condemned him If he did that, he is watching over all of the details of our lives. And when he says later in Romans 8. 28 God causes all things to work together for the good of those who love him and are called according to his purpose, then he does. He does. Even when we don't see it, and even when we don't notice it, it's another thing about this. Like the apostles Right? Including Saul of Tarsus, who's probably with the Sanhedrin somewhere at that time. They they didn't look at what was happening to Jesus and say, oh wow, God is fulfilling all of his prophecy perfectly But later, after the resurrection, they could look back and say, wait a minute, how did we miss this? He was doing everything exactly exactly the way how It's the same way with our lives. Like when we're in the midst of it, it's like uh Romans 828, shh sure. Uh-huh. Tell me another one. But when we get out of it, so often we can look back on it and say, ah. And if that doesn't happen in this life, it will happen in eternity. And so it's true. The second proof is the resurrection, his resurrection from the dead. Jesus rose again from the dead in the same body which died. The tomb was empty. The authorities had to account for the empty tomb, so they spread a lie that the disciples had come and stolen the body, but those disciples saw the Lord. And they were so emboldened by seeing the Lord that they went from cowering in an upper room behind a locked door to standing openly in the temple and proclaiming his name. And they were unafraid. Even under threat of death, they did not recant because they were unafraid because they had seen the one whose death conquered death in his resurrection from the dead. Jesus' resurrection, notice it is a resurrection in power. He was declared to be the Son of God in power by his resurrection from the dead. Jesus' resurrection is unlike any other. In human history, there were some people who died and who were resuscitated or brought back to life, but the difference is they were brought back to life in a mortal body that then later died. Jesus was brought back to life in an immortal body In a resurrected, glorified body, in a body that was unlike any human body that we know of. He could present himself with his scars, he could eat with the disciples, he could break bread with them. But he could also walk through walls, he could also disappear in a moment, he could also ascend into the sky because he has defeated death. He has defeated death. Death no longer has a hold on him. He cannot die. He will never die. Two thousand years later, Jesus is still in the same resurrection body that walked out of that tomb on that first Easter morning. He has defeated death. And that is the ultimate proof that he is the Son of God and that the gospel is true. So Not only does Paul tell us that the gospel is concerning Jesus and that it's reliable, but he also tells us what the goal of the gospel is. What is the gospel doing in the world? What's the point? What's the goal of the gospel? Colossians 1. 6, Paul tells the church at Colossae that the gospel is bearing fruit. and growing in all the world. But what does it mean for the gospel to to increase and to bear fruit? What's the goal here? You might think, oh, it's so that when we die we can go to heaven. That's part of it. That's part of the blessing and the benefit that comes to you, but that's not the big story. And Paul tells us the big story here. in his introduction. And we know it's the big story because he actually brings it up again at the end of the book. Look at what he says in verse 5. Through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about The obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations. What's the goal of Paul's apostleship? It's to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations. Now, leave your finger there at Romans 1 and turn with me to the very end of Romans. If you don't have a Bible in front of you, get one out and open it. Go to the end of Romans. Listen to how Paul ends Romans, the last verses, the doxology of Romans. Now to him who is able to strengthen you, according to my gospel And the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages, but has now been disclosed through the prophetic writings. has been made known to all nations according to the command of the eternal God to bring about the obedience of faith. To the only wise God be glory forevermore through Jesus Christ. Amen. Do you see that? We have the gospel. We have the mystery kept secret for long ages disclosed to the prophetic writings, just as we had promised beforehand and the prophets through the Holy Scriptures, and then we have the obedience of faith. The obedience of faith among all the nations and for the glory of his name. That's what it's all about. Paul is called and set apart as an apostle. He's given grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of the name of Jesus, for the glory of God among all the nations. Which the more you get the gospel, the more you want the gospel to go out to the nations. Because the more it goes out to the nations, the more people come to know Jesus. And the more they come to know Jesus, the more they come to obey him by faith. The obedience of faith is contrasted in Paul. It's not the obedience of works. It's not the obedience of seeking to establish your own self-righteousness. Remember that Jesus said, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees. you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. The scribes and Pharisees, they kind of perfected Works and self-righteousness. That line, right? Paul could say in Philippians 3 about himself, as regards obedience to the law, I was blameless No one could bring a charge against Paul that he had ever broken the law of God in any way that anybody ever knew. But he knew his own heart, so he knew better than that. But That's self-righteousness. That's obedience of works. Obedience of faith is totally different. It is grace transforming us. Bringing us to trust in Christ Jesus and wanting to live for Him and His glory because we love Him. And that is what glorifies God, not the obedience of works to establish self-righteousness. It's kind of like this. If somebody gets married, And you were to hand them a rule book, like here's a guide for husbands, here's the rule book. Take out the trash once a week. Cut the grass once a week. You know, say I love you to your wife at least twice a day, right? And you have this whole detailed list, right? And they're getting ready to get married. They're like, okay, I'm gonna memorize this list. Memorize this list. Okay, bring flowers on special occasions. Okay. dinner out on these occasions. Okay. I've got it. I've got it. I've got it down. It's down. I've got it. I'm going to do these things so that I will be a good husband. You say your vows, you see the I do's, and you're like, okay, what do I do? Let me consult my list. Or Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. And the husband says, I love my wife. And so I'm going to do what's loving to my wife. I'm going to find out what she needs. I'm going to meet her needs. I'm going to love her. Which one's better? That's the difference between a self-righteous, works-based obedience that is box checking, rule following, and Paul's going to get into this a lot more later. And the heart transformed of love, to say, I love And therefore I obey. The obedience of faith is I trust Jesus, and I'm so thankful that He saved me, so I'm going to obey. To bring about the obedience of faith for his sake among all the nations, what are the next two words? To bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, including you. Here's where we come in. Including you. Well, who's the you? Well, you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. You are included. This is about you. That's the you And if you belong to Jesus Christ, it's not just an ancient letter written by some long-dead guy to an ancient people in a foreign part of the world. It is for us. It is including us If we are called to belong to Jesus Christ, if we believe in Jesus, if we've come to faith in him, if we know that the gospel is true and we've put our faith in Jesus Christ, this letter is for us. I like being included. Don't you like being included? I I don't like being excluded. I uh I spent some time growing up being excluded. First I was the little brother, and I had two older brothers who were six years and three years older than me. And they would go off and do some things. I'd be like, oh, I want to come too. No, you can't come, you're too little. How many of you kids love that when someone says that to you? You can't come, you're too little. Isn't that so much fun? No. That's no fun at all. And then I was uh a year ahead in school, so I was a year younger than everyone else in school, and I'm not a great athlete, never have been. And so when it came to playground games and picking teams, I was always the last boy chosen, and very frequently several girls were chosen ahead of me. So I was n not included. And that's just like but I love that God, by his grace says to all of us who believe in Jesus Christ, you are included in this gospel, in the mission of this gospel, it's Your story too. It's not primarily concerning you. It's not your story, but you're included. I got written into a novel one time, and that was pretty cool. There's a novel called Club Sandwich by Lisa Sampson. It's a Christian fiction book. And Lisa Sampson was a school mom at New Covenant Christian School. And she wrote this scene of this mom, Club Sandwich is about moms who are raising kids while also taking care of aging parents and feeling sandwiched between the generations of raising our kids and taking care of our parents. So some of us can relate to that. Well, she's taking her kids on a tour of a classical Christian school to see if they and and the principal is taking her on a tour. And it's like literally the exact words I said when I took her on the tour. So I was including the book. It was pretty cool. Like You know, I would I I now it's like, hey, that's the book that's got me in it. That's the story. The story of the gospel is wonderful because at the end When the end of it all is this great multitude from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, a multitude that no one can number, who are standing around the throne giving glory to the Lamb, whose lives are a reflection of the grace of God, transforming lives, and we are included! We're there. If we belong to Christ Jesus Notice it's those who are called to belong to Christ Jesus, which you take that word belong, you connect it right back up to the word servant at the beginning, the slave. If you belong to Christ Jesus, then you are his slave. So if that's you, then you're included. You're brought into eternal life in Christ and with Christ. And if that's true of you, then verse 7 is also true of you. You are loved by God, and you are called to be a saint. And God gives you grace and peace. I could preach a whole nother sermon on those four concepts, but we're running out of time. But you are loved by the God of the universe. And you are called to be a saint. Now, I want you to understand that concept. In Philippians, when Paul writes to the church of Philippi, he says, to the saints of God who are in Christ at Philippi. You are a saint if you belong to Christ Jesus, because to be a saint is to be set apart. And Paul says he's set apart. If you belong, you've also been set apart. You're included. You are a saint. What it means to be called to be a saint is that you're called to be what you are. What does that mean? Well, if that's who you are, act like it. Right? If that's who you are, act like it. So you're called to be a saint because God's made you a saint. And you get grace that's undeserved favor and kindness from God, and you get peace, peace with God and peace from God, a peace that surpasses all understanding, a peace that the world cannot give and cannot take away. That's who we are if we are included. So, given all this wonderful truth about the gospel, I'd only have two questions to close with. The first is, are you included? Are you included? Do you belong to Jesus Christ by faith? Are you his servant? Is he your master? Are you in the kingdom? Is the gospel the good news that you've built your life on that you've said this is it? This is the one true good news in the world and I'm hooking my wagon to this train because it's going the right way. Are you included? The second is this. If so, if you are included, do you live your life like someone who's been included by God in the very best thing that he is doing in the world Next Sunday we have an opportunity. Jacob and Carol are going to be here, and they're going to talk to us about what God is doing in northern Uganda. in South Sudan, in Sudan, through the Ministry of Reaching Africa's Unreach, and we're included in that because we we support them, we partner with them. But but do you get excited about that? Do you realize that that has more relevance to your life And to your mission and to your identity and to your calling, than whatever's going on in Washington, D. C. or the State House. Those are just earthly governments that will come and go. We're in the kingdom. Of the one true eternal King. So are we living that? Are we living out the obedience of faith for the sake of the name of Jesus among all the nations Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for giving your son for us. Thank you for sending your Spirit to bring us to Christ, to bring us to faith, to bring us to life. Thank you for making us apart. Of the greatest thing happening in the history of the world, the one true good news, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, risen with power. And that his gospel is spreading throughout the world to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations. Help us to see that. Help us to be excited about that. Help us to want to be a part of that. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.