The words of life that we are turning to today are found in Isaiah fifty-nine. Isaiah fifty-nine We're going to hear in this passage what the real problem is. How sin separates us from God and from justice and righteousness, and how God reconciles us to Himself. This is God's holy word. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, or his ear dull, that it cannot hear But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear. For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity. Your lips have spoken lies. Your tongue mutters wickedness. No one enters suit justly. No one goes to law honestly. They rely on empty pleas. They speak lies. They conceive mischief and give birth to iniquity. They they hatch adder's eggs They weave the spider's web. He who eats their eggs dies, and from one that is crushed a viper is hatched. Their webs will not serve as clothing. Men will not cover themselves with what they make. Their works are works of iniquity, and deeds of violence are in their hands. Their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity. Desolation and destruction are in their highways. The way of peace they do not know. There is no justice in their paths. They have made their roads crooked. No one who treads them knows peace. Therefore, justice is far from us. and righteousness does not overtake us. We hope for light and behold darkness and for brightness, but we walk in gloom. We grope For the wall like the blind. We we grope like those who have no eyes. We stumble at noon as in the twilight among those in full vigor we are like dead men We all growl like bears, we moan and mourn like doves. We hope for justice, but there is none. For salvation, but it is far from us. For our transgressions are multiplied before you, and our sins testify against us, for our transgressions are with us, and we know our iniquities. Stands far away, for truth has stumbled in the public squares, and uprightness cannot enter. Truth is lacking. And he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. The Lord saw it. And it displeased him that there was no justice. He saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no one to intercede. Then his own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him. He put on righteousness as a breastplate and the helmet of salvation on his head. He put on garments of vengeance for clothing and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. According to their deeds he will repay, wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies, to the coastlands he will render repayment. So they will, they shall fear the name of the Lord from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun, for he will come like a rushing stream Which the wind of the Lord drives, and a redeemer will come to Zion. To those in Jacob who turn from transgression, declares the Lord. And as for me This is my covenant with them, says the Lord. My spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth shall not depart. out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring, says the Lord, from this time forth and forevermore. Let's pray. Father, we know that we live in a broken and messed up world. And we know ourselves well enough to know that we are too often part of the problem. Because of our own selfishness. We need you. We need the redemption, the salvation that you alone have worked and have brought into this world through Jesus. So please speak your truth to us through this word. Write it on our hearts. Show us Christ that we might worship Him anew and follow Him and share Him with others. Including our children and our children's children, to your glory we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. For many, many years Medical science operated on the theory of the balance of the humors in the body. According to this theory, there were four major bodily fluids, blood, yellow bile, black bile, and phlegm. And they determined a person's temperament, and it was an imbalance in these humors that would lead to sickness. One version of this theory said that if you were running a fever, it was obviously because you had too much blood in your body and you needed to get rid of some of it. And so the prescription for someone who had a bad infection was running a fever was bloodletting By the way, the reason why a traditional barber's pole has a red swirl around it is because the place you would go to get bloodlet was to the barber. After all, they had the sharpest and cleanest razors in town. Now, very often the patient's fever would go away very shortly after a bloodletting, as happens with fevers. But that reinforced the idea that this worked, that this was the treatment that was effective. And so, you know, bloodletting was practiced as standard medical science for about 3,000 years. Until the modern germ theory of infectious disease, which was really developed in its maturity in the 1860s to 1880s. led medical doctors to a better understanding of the cause of illnesses. And then once antibiotic and antiviral drugs were developed, the root causes of infectious diseases could then be more accurately treated It's important to know what the actual cause of a problem is if you want to treat it properly. Everybody knows we live in a messed-up world. Just turn on the news. Just like pay attention. It it ain't right. And we all have a sense that it ain't right. And then we think of our own lives, and we know that we just repeatedly are not living the kind of life that we feel We know intuitively that we should be living. If we fall short in all sorts of ways, there's not enough joy, there's not enough peace, there's not enough productivity, there's not enough goodness, whatever it is, in the world and in our lives. And what what is the problem? Well, when it comes to the world, there's a lot of answers. Well, we need more education. If we spend more money on schools and we get more education, that'll make things better. Or we need better justice. We need, you know, to punish the evildoers and lock them up and put them in jail or Maybe we need more money spent on poverty relief. We need to feed all the hungry people in the world, which certainly if look, all of these things are good. I'm not saying that any of them is bad. I'm not comparing them to bloodletting. But they don't really get to the root issue. And the truth of the matter is we've been trying all of these kinds of things for hundreds of years. And in some ways things have gotten better, but in other ways they just have With our own personal lives, people think, well, if I just had a little bit more money, then I would be able to afford to do all the things I want to do and I wouldn't be so stressed about all these financial financial things or if I just had more free time or I had more me time. That's kind of the new thing is you gotta take some me time, some self-care. So if I had more me time, if I had more self-care, then I'd be better off And we try all these things and some of them are okay and some of them are not okay at all, and and we just end up, what's the deal? Our text presents us with the people of ancient Israel wondering why their society is so broken, there's no justice. There's no righteousness. There's evil people who are controlling things. Truth is lacking. There's just I almost I almost laughed out loud in verse 14, for truth has stumbled in the public squares. Boy if that's not a description of America in 2025. But it's the world, like it's the world in Israel in 700 BC, it's the world in America in 2025, truth is lacking, it stumbles in the public squares. Justice is fleeting, evildoers seem to prosper and get away with it. Like what is the deal? And the people in ancient Israel were wondering, why isn't God answering their prayers? Because these were religious people. We saw that last week. And Isaiah 58. These were religious people. They were fasting. They were keeping the Sabbath. They were actually praying to God every day. And they wanted to know, why aren't you hearing us? Why aren't you answering us? And they began to think, like the world thought about their gods, that maybe it was because God couldn't do anything about it Maybe he's just not able to come to the rescue But God says, no, that's not the problem. I'll tell you what the problem is. And that's so helpful of God. God really is gracious to us. He says He says, let me tell you something. I'll tell you what the problem is not, and then I'll tell you what the problem is, so that you can have the truth which is so lacking in the world. Very briefly, the opening verse tells us that the problem is not with God. The second verse tells us that the problem is with the people. God is not deaf. God is not weak. Sometimes people believe this. Most people in the world believe in God. I'm not saying that in air quotes because it's not the God of the Bible. It's a God, some higher power. But what they believe about God is very often that his arm is shortened and he cannot save. Years ago, Rabbi Harold Kushner wrote about why bad things happen to good people, which is a perennial question that people always ask. Why do bad things happen to good Things happen to good people. And his answer was: God is unlimited in his love for people, but he only has limited power to be able to prevent evil. Because he's unwilling to violate our free will, and so he's he kind of has to sit back and watch. And Feel sorry for us. He can give us a shoulder to cry on. He can sort of comfort us in our distress, but he can't really do anything about it. So at one point Rabbi Kushner even says, you know, we have to feel sorry for God, and even we have to be willing to forgive God for not being as strong as we need him to be. No. That is not the truth. Rabbi Kushner and others who think like that are wrong because they don't understand face from you so that he does not hear. Because James puts it this way, you ask and you do not receive because you ask with selfish motives that you might spend it on your own. And so that's that's the way God is like, hey, you're crying out to me, but you're just selfish and you're wanting yourself to be advanced, and that's That's not it. And by the way, when you look over these first eight verses in Isaiah 59, if you scan through them, you might think, man, that's really, really bad. These people there in ancient Israel, they must have been really, really bad. Well, I have news for you. Verses 7 and 8 are picked up in Romans 3 in the New Testament and applied universally to all people. The wording is slightly different. What Romans 3 says in verses 15 to 18 is, their feet are swift to shed blood, in their paths are ruin and misery. The way of peace they have not known, there is no fear of God before their eyes. And Romans 3, God is telling us that is true of everyone, because it opens what there is no one righteous, not even one That's the truth. We're all in the same state by nature. Our sins have separated us from God. It's put us in alienation from Him. He is holy, we are not. He is just, we are not. He is perfectly righteous, we are thoroughly unrighteous. And so there is this separation. And separated from God, we also become separated from each other. We're left Shamed, exposed, and spiritually blind and groping around in the dark. There's two kind of pictures of this that are prominent in these verses. One is the idea that We're blind and groping around. That's because we're looking for truth, light. Light in the Bible is often a picture of truth. We want to know what's true, what's real, what's reliable And we're blind men who are in the dark. It's a powerful picture. Like we ourselves are blind and we are in a dark world. So we're just like, where oh where is the truth? That's one. And then the other one is this complete lack of real justice. Everyone goes to suit against their neighbor without honest things. Like there's not an integrity of like, we just want to see the truth prevail. We just want to see justice. really established. No, the truth of the matter is everybody's saying, I just want my side to win, and I want those people that I disagree with to lose. Well what's really true? Well, we don't really know what's true, and so not knowing what's true, justice can look like I win and everybody I'm against loses. And that is the way world we live in. And the reason why we live in this world is because of the natural state of every one of us. Broken in distress. Our sin separates us from God, it makes a mess of our lives, not only society-wise and global-wise But we see it even in our own relationships, don't we? We see it in marriages that are strained. I just did a wedding yesterday. I love doing weddings. Uh Gabriel Miller and Christina Pagliara been dating for years. They got married yesterday. I did their premarital counseling over the last several months. Um looking at the first couple I ever did premarital counseling for. Just celebrated 15 years of marriage. Uh another couple I'm married over here. But I love doing weddings and just It's great because everybody is just like, yes, we love each other and we love each other. And then a few years later you're like, well, divorce is not an option, but I am pondering murder. And and and I will sometimes joke and say Beth deserves a medal for sure because she's been married to me for almost twenty-seven years. And I have never woken up in the middle of the night with a knife plunged through my heart, although I have deserved it. And that's a joke, but it's not a joke, you know, if you've been married. Like The people we're closest to are the people that we hurt the most. We love them the most, but we also hurt them the most because we know that it's not right. With us. Thankfully, we do live in a world where God's preserving grace is still at work. Things are not as bad as they could be. We don't live in a proposition. Perpetual state of continual war in every square inch of the world, because God's grace is still preserving us. God's grace still gives us a sense of justice. And a sense of right and wrong and restrains us from being as bad as we could be. And even better, God's saving grace sees the distress and the needs. And acts decisively to redeem and restore. And that is the hinge of this passage. It comes in verse 15. Where truth is lacking, and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. I'm just going to stop on that half of a verse and give you a story to illustrate. Bob Brown and I went to missionary conference in Jacksonville, Florida in January was it? Um sometime. And it was a great conference. We really, really enjoyed it. It was wonderful. And as we were leaving, We were in the airport waiting for our flight, and we noticed a slightly older Indian couple. They looked like they were in their six Maybe? Hard to tell, but um. And we thought, wait a minute, what are the odds that they were at the same conference with us? 2,000 people from all over the world coming So we just said, Hey, were you at the conference? And they were saying yes, we were at the conference. And so we stuck struck up a conversation and we talked for a while while we were waiting for our flight. It's Pastor Ebenezer, and he's in um Southeastern India. And he's doing church planting and and uh training and and we had a wonderful conversation. So he has a WhatsApp uh prayer group and he's added me to it. And yesterday morning He sends me notice. A church near them that he's been working with. Pastor Abraham is the leader of this congregation. These are people who came out of a Hindu background, most of them from the underclass in India, the Dalit, who are very very poor. But they've come out of Hinduism, most of them, and they were gathered together, they were worshiping the Lord, and they were building a church building. And they got their church building up to where they were ready to put the roof on. This is a big undertaking for a very poor community in a village in India. They got to the point where they were ready to put a roof on their building. And some local uh Hindu extremists came up around and said, we we're not going to let this church building stand. You can't have this. And so they appealed to the government because there is officially freedom of religion in India and they're allowed to build church buildings So they appealed to the government and said they were being threatened by this mob. And the government said, Well, whatever, go away, leave us alone. And two days later, they came out in the morning And men had shown up with construction equipment to destroy their church building. It was reduced to rubble. They had turned away from evil and they had become victims because they went against the system that told them, stay in your place. God sees those things and it displeases him. Second half of verse 15. The Lord saw it, and it displeased him. There was no justice. God doesn't look at the world. You know, uh Bette Midler in the right around 1990-91, whenever she sang this song from a distance. Those of you old enough to remember that song, from a distance. The world looks blue and green, and all the snow-capped mountains white. God is watching us, God is watching us from a distance. It's a beautiful song, totally false. Because it's like God's just looking down on the world like those people on the International Space Station saying, Oh what a beautiful place. What wonderful people. God sees down to our hearts better than we do. And he's not pleased. And then he sees that there's no man. He wondered that there was no one to intercede. You see, in God's economy, if there's a people who are in sin. A mediator would be necessary, a righteous mediator, someone to stand in the gap, someone to make intercession on behalf of the people. And there was no one. So, what's God going to do? A world of sinners, a world of injustice, his own people suffering, and there's nobody to intercede. Here's where we need to stop and we need to realize at this point God has every right and every reason to say, I have had it with you people. For centuries, I have spoken truth to you, I have sent prophets to you, I have shown you miracles, every day of your life is a gift from me, and this is what you do with it. I've had it. He has every right to do that. But that's not what he did. And we need to be amazed that that's not what he did. Instead, he said, I will He saw that there was no man, wondered that there was no one to intercede, then his own arm brought him salvation. The right arm of the Lord in the Old Testament, that's Jesus. That's the Son of God. That's God's acting in the world, which is always done through the Son. And his righteousness upheld him. He put on righteousness as a breastplate and a helmet of salvation on his head. He put on garments of vengeance for clothing. and wrapped himself in in zeal as a cloak, according to their deeds, so will he repay wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies. To the coastlands he will render repayment So they shall fear the Lord, the name of the Lord, from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun, for he will he will come like a rushing stream, which the wind of the wind Of the Lord drives, and a redeemer will come to Zion. To those in Jacob who turn from their transgressions, declares the Lord. Lord. God comes and God Himself becomes two things that are repeated here: righteousness and salvation. You see that at the end of 16, the beginning of 17. His own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him. He put on righteousness as a breastplate and a helmet of salvation on his head. God's people need two things. We need two things. We need righteousness that we don't have, and we need salvation, that is deliverance, that is rescue, from our Enemy. Now, if you hear language of breastplate of righteousness, helmet of salvation, if you know the Bible, Ephesians six, armor of God, that should be like, hey, wait a minute. And that's important. So what's being described here is Christ coming into the world as the Redeemer, as the Savior, as the mediator. He comes into the world as the one to in He's in a unique position to do that because he is fully God and fully man, true God and true man. He's able to stand in the gap. He's able to intercede as one one who is God and who is man, and who is a perfectly righteous man. But in Ephesians 6, we see this as the armor of God. Which tells us that the armor of God really is the believer putting on Christ for the battle. Another place Paul says, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's another way of saying the same thing as the armor of God passage. You put on Christ, He is our righteousness, He is our salvation, He is the truth, He is the gospel of peace. He is everything we need, our faith in him, his word. That's our armament against the enemy, which sheds light back on this passage. Because the enemies that he's coming to get vengeance against, first and foremost, is Satan. We don't wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the principalities, against the powers, against the rulers of this dark age. That's how Paul describes the work of Christ in salvation in Colossians 2. He says this way, you Who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him having forgiven us all our trespasses. So there we're we're blind, we're in the dark. We're dead. We're following after the ways of this world. We're groping around in the dark. God says, I'm going to fix you. I'm going to forgive all your trespasses. I'm going to give you a righteousness that you need. I'm going to make you alive together with Christ. The going on, by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. And then Colossians 3. 15, he disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in him. The cause of the problems is sin, transgression. Well, the one who brought sin into the world was Satan, the adversary. And so Jesus goes straight to the cause of the cause. And defeats him, crushing his head, even as he crushes Christ's heel, which is exactly what God foretold thousands of years before would happen. And this is the genius of God. God uses Satan as his instrument to bring about his own defeat and ultimate. Destruction. Because Satan put it into the heart of Judas Isariot to betray Jesus and to put him up on the cross because Satan said, I've got to get rid of this guy. And then as Jesus cries out on the cross, it is finished, and the veil in the temple is torn in two, Satan, I think, in that moment realized, I just lost. And I did it to myself. He fell into the trap that he laid. This is God's work. This is what we need. We need righteousness and we need salvation. We need to be right before God and we need to be saved from our enemies of sin, Satan, and death And Jesus did that. Jesus did that by dying on the cross for our sins and by rising again from the dead to live forevermore as our living Savior and our eternal Redeemer. The Redeemer has come to Zion, to the people of God. To those in Jacob who are sick of their sin, who need forgiveness, who are weary of the separation that sin brings from God and from one another, and who turn to Him. We turn to our Redeemer and we turn away from our sin in the very same action. Repentance and faith are just two sides of the same exact action that says All this sin, all this darkness, all this selfishness, it's just not working. It's terrible. But Jesus will save me. And so we turn from the transgression to the Redeemer. And he s He saves us. Listen, if you are here and you've never turned and you've never trusted, maybe you're a kid and you've just heard these things, you're like, oh Pastor Jason's going on and on again. The food table's over there. How much longer? Or maybe you're here and you know this, but you're saying, well I'm still enjoying my sin. I'm still kind of believing that the world has something to offer me that might actually make me happy. I'm gonna be fifty-one in a couple of days. I know for some of you that's still very young, but for the young people that sounds really old, doesn't it? Because I remember when I was your age, John, at 51 Santa Lake. Someone half dead. Sorry for the people who are much older than I am, but you remember? You remember when you were that age? And I'm just gonna tell you, trust me, the world ain't got nothing that deeply satisfies And the way to see this is to look at the lives of the richest and most successful people in the world. Really look at their lives. It's not it. That's not it. But Jesus says, Come to me. All you who are weary and are heavy laden and I I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am meek and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. Jesus says, turn and trust and live. And I pray that if you are here and you have never turned and trusted and found And for all of us, for all of us, Martin Luther very famously said At the very beginning of the Protestant Reformation, the very first of the 95 Theses posted in 1517, Martin Luther said that when the Lord Jesus Christ calls us to repent. He means that the whole of the Christian life is to be a life of repentance. That turning and trusting is not a one-time thing, it's an everyday thing. It's a wake-up in the morning and say, Lord, this is the day that you've given to me and you are good, and I'm going to be tempted to live for myself today, but I turn to you and I trust in you. Lead me We turn and we trust day by day, and we recognize The ways of the world and the ways of our flesh for what they are, they're death, they separate us from God. They're poison, and we say, I don't want that. I want what God has for me. It's better. The second thing it leads to is that we need to fear the Lord. It says, so shall they fear the name of the Lord. That means we need to rightly worship him. We need to humbly trust him in every He needs to be like, here's this decision I have to make. I can do this little sin, I can spread a bit of juicy gossip about this person, and it'll make me Feel better about myself, because at least I'm not as bad as that person. And it'll give me a little bit of social credibility with this person that I'm spreading the juicy gossip to. We need to look at that and say, ugh, that is death. I will not offend the Lord like that. I'm going to turn away from that. In fear of the Lord. And then the third thing, because it says, so shall they fear the name of the Lord from the west And his glory from the rising of the sun, we need to be committed to spreading the good news of this salvation from sin and death to the east and to the west, to the ends of the earth, that all may hear this good news. Repent, turn and trust, fear the Lord, spread the good news of salvation, and then God closes by giving us a gracious, wonderful promise. So here I think this is specifically a prophecy of what is called the new covenant in Scripture. He's saying, the Redeemer comes, and this is the covenant I will make with them. This is the new covenant. My spirit that is upon you. And my words that I have put in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring, says the Lord, from this time forth. forevermore. God promises that His word and His Spirit will be given to all generations of believers forever. This covenant promise shows us that even in the New Covenant age, the giving of the Holy Spirit to all believers, there is still a covenant that God makes with believers and their children and their children's children. God's covenant promise from Genesis to Revelation is super consistent. I will be a God to you and to your seed after you. I will be a God to you and to your children after you throughout their generations. Now, it's always been a conditional promise There's always been two things. One is that parents are charged to bring their children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Rory is a great natural athlete. He is. But if he wants to excel at something, he's got to work. at it, right? You've got to practice, you've got to be disciplined, you've got to focus, you've got to do the hard work, right? Someone else might be really intelligent. Well We're picking on other people's kids today because my kids are tired of being in the illustrations, so Rory, your turn. Someone else might have a particular artistic ability or a particular musical gift, but you gotta you gotta nurture it. You gotta work and so there's a covenant promise, and I'm not saying it's like that exactly, because of the promise of God and it's It's signed and sealed in baptism, but there's a condition that says, Fathers, bring up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Bring them up in it. Teach them. Train them. And then for the children, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. There's still that need for you to believe You can't say, oh yeah, my parents taught me all about that. I know all about that. There's a world of difference between my parents taught me all about that. I know all about that. And I believe in Jesus. He is my Lord and Savior. There's a world difference between those two things. So there is a condition for parents, and there's a condition for children, but there is a promise And the promise and the blessing is real and powerful, and the testimony of millions upon millions of believers in the world today is that they were brought up to know the Lord. And they have always known and always believed as far back as they can remember. And as elders, we love those kinds of boring testimonies when kids come to meet with us. I I grew up in a Christian household. I've always known the Lord. Well, do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior? Yes, he is my Lord and Savior. So personal faith is there, but in their Testimony, they've always known, and they've always, at some level, believed. And that is a great testimony. And it's also a testimony that has power for those who wander and come back. I've known people who were brought up in the Christian faith and who wandered away for most of their adult life and came back in their 50s or 60s. And that's God keeping his covenant promise. The key instrument that the Lord uses, that the Spirit uses in bringing this covenant promise about in the lives of God's people is the Word of God. Notice my Spirit that is upon you. And my words that I have put in your mouth. It's the word and spirit. It's the spirit working through the word that is the instrument for this. Now, there's a whole story about how God has preserved his word throughout the centuries, which is a fascinating story. God promises it here. You're never going to lose my word. And Satan's been very active throughout history to try to get rid of the Word of God. But he never succeeded. Because God kept his promise. But for us here today, our response should be clear. God's given us his word. It needs to be in our hearts. It needs to be on our lips. It needs to be in our homes, it needs to be in the lives of our children and our children's children. Because God has given us this precious gift as a treasure. So we need to make sure we're reading and studying and praying and living this word every day. It is our daily bread. You get up in the morning. And before too long, you're hungry. You're looking for food. Well, your spirit is hungry too. And you need to be fed by the Word of God. God every day. God's given us, in this passage, God's given us the right diagnosis for the root cause of our trouble. Troubles. And he's given us the right prescription. Now, if you get a good diagnosis from your doctor, and you get a good prescription, But you take those antibiotics home and you stick them in your cabinet in the bathroom and you never take them You're gonna be mad at the doctor? Man, I came to you and I was so sick and you gave me this and it didn't work. It's still sitting in the package in your cabinet. Take it. Take it. We need Christ in us, the hope of glory. And the way Christ gets in us is by the word Being driven home to our hearts by the Spirit. God's told us our problem. He sent His Son to be our Redeemer, our righteousness, our salvation. He's given us His Word and His Spirit that we might know Jesus and follow Jesus. might turn from our transgression and trust in him. We need to trust him. We need to follow him. We need to love him. We need to proclaim him to others. And so will we will we take what God has given us? Let's pray. Father, you so loved the world that you gave your one and only Son, so that whoever believes in him should not perish But have everlasting life. We are brought from death to life through Jesus, our righteousness and our salvation. May we believe, may we turn and trust, and may we live unto your glory until we see you face to face. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.