Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you could be with us for this final day of week 16. We're in Mark chapter 8. Today we're going to be looking at verses 1 to 21 and asking, why are we so slow to listen and learn? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It's a blessing to be in your word day after day. You are good And you show your goodness to us, your wisdom, your love, your power through your word and through your son, who is the word of God made flesh. Speak to us today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen Mark 8, 1-21. In those days, when again a great crowd had gathered and they had nothing to eat, He called his disciples to him and said to them, I have compassion on the crowd, because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And if I send them away hungry to their homes, they will faint on the way. And some of them have come from far away. And his disciples answered him, How can one feed these people with bread here in this desolate place? And he asked them, how many loaves do you have? They said, seven. And he directed the crowd to sit down on the ground. And he took the seven loaves, and having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before the people, and they set them before the crowd. And they had a few small fish. And having blessed them, he said that these should also be set before them. And they ate And were satisfied, and they took up the broken pieces left over, seven baskets full. And there were about 4,000 people. And he sent them away, and immediately he got into the boat with his disciples, and went to the district of Dalmanuta. The Pharisees came and began to argue with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven to test him. And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation. And he left them, and got into the boat again and went to the other side. Now they had forgotten to bring bread, and they had only one loaf with them in the boat. And he cautioned them, saying, Watch out, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. And they began discussing with one another the fact that they had no bread. And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why are you discussing the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts so hardened? Having eyes? Do you not see? And having ears? Do you not hear? And do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up They said to him, Twelve. And the seven? For the four thousand. How many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up? And they said to him, Seven? And he said to them, Do you not yet understand? It's so easy to be very judgmental when reading today's passage in Mark. If we remember that Jesus had already fed a crowd of more than five thousand people from five loaves and two fish, we have to shake our heads and wonder, did the disciples really have to ask Jesus, how can one feed these people with bread here in this desolate place? But then after Jesus feeds the 4,000 with seven loaves of bread and a few fish, the disciples are confused by Jesus' warning against the leaven of the Pharisees. They think Jesus is rebuking them for not bringing bread. Really? Have they not learned yet that they don't need to worry about where their next meal is coming from? And just when we are feeling so superior, we should step back and take a look at our own lives and our own hearts. How many times Has God provided exactly what we need when we need it? How many times has He shown His grace to be sufficient? And how many times have we missed an important spiritual lesson? Because our minds were on our stomachs instead of the kingdom of God. So with some perspective, we can see that we are just as clueless as the disciples. But why? Jesus says it is because of our sin and because of a lack of spiritual enlightenment. Our hearts are hard. Our eyes cannot see. Our ears cannot hear what they should. What we need is something only the Holy Spirit can apply to us. Redemption. We need our sin removed, our hearts softened, to be responsive to God, our eyes opened. our ears unstopped. Only then will we be able to truly see, hear, and respond to God as we should. The good news is that Jesus has already accomplished our redemption, and the Holy Spirit will apply full redeeming grace to the hearts, eyes, and ears of believers as we trust in Jesus. When we stay in the Word, when we stay on our knees, when we stay in fellowship with other believers, God changes us from the inside out. And that is good news. Let's turn our attention to Psalm 81. It's written to the choirmaster, according to the Gith, it's a Psalm of Asaph. Sing aloud to God our strength. Shout for joy to the God of Jacob. Raise a song. Sound the tambourine, the sweet lyre with the harp. Blow the trumpet at new moon, at the full moon, on our feast day, for it is a statute for Israel, a rule of the God of Jacob. He made it a decree in Joseph when he went out over the land of Egypt. I hear a language I had not known. I relieved your shoulder of the burden. Your hands were freed from the basket In distress you called and I delivered you. I answered you in the secret place of thunder. I tested you at the waters of Meribah. Hear, O my people, while I admonish you. O Israel, if you would but listen to me There shall be no strange God among you, and you shall not bow down to a foreign God. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it But my people did not listen to my voice. Israel would not submit to me. So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts to follow their own counsels. Oh, that my people would listen to me That Israel would walk in my ways. I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes. Those who hate the Lord would cringe toward him, and their fate would last forever. But he would feed you. With the finest of wheat, and with honey from the rock, I would satisfy you Very appropriate psalm to go along with today's passage from the Gospel of Mark because this is the problem. We we don't listen. We don't listen. God wants to feed us, feed our souls with the bread of life, feed us with that which would satisfy us. But we just we don't listen. We need him to open our ears and our eyes, don't we? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, forgive us for listening too much to the world, too much to our flesh. Too much to the lies of Satan, and too little to your word. Have mercy on us and change our hearts. Draw us to yourself and give us life Teach us the truth and help us to walk in it. We pray all of this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks again for joining me as we wrap out, wrap out, wrap up, close out, one of those things. Week 16. I hope you have a great weekend. I hope you have a great Lord's Day that you're worshiping together with God's people at Forest Hill or at another Bible-believing gospel preaching church. And I hope to see you back here on Monday. Have a blessed day. In the Lord.