Good morning and welcome to Journey Through Acts. This is a devotional series through the book of Acts in which we are re-presenting Presenting devotional studies that were done in Acts as part of our three-year journey through the Bible that we did as a church from 2022 to 2024. Let's turn our attention now to God's Word. It's day 487, Acts 15, and the Jerusalem Council. Very interesting that we are on the Jerusalem Council today, because if you're following us through our schedule, this is Tuesday, May 2nd, and this is the day that Beth and I are flying over to Israel, heading toward Jerusalem, where we will be, Lord willing, in a few days. So Let's pray, and we'll look to God's Word today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for all that you do for us in Christ our Savior. Would you write your word on our hearts today? Help us to understand this very important chapter in your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Acts chapter 15. This is one of the most significant chapters in the New Testament for understanding how church government is meant to function. So let's look at it together. But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. And after Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and debate with them, Paul and Barnabas and some of the others were appointed to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders about this question. So being sent on their way by the church, they passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles and brought great joy to all the brothers. When they came to Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they declared all that God had done with them. But some believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees rose up and said, It is necessary to circumcise them and to order them to keep the law of Moses. The apostles and the elders were gathered together to consider this matter, and after there had been much debate, Paul stood up and said to them, Brothers, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He did to us. And He made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith. Now therefore, why are you putting God to the test by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear? But if we believe that we will be saved through the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, just as they will, we believe. And all the assembly fell silent. And they listened to Barnabas and Paul as they related what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles And after they finished speaking, James replied, Brothers, listen to me. Simeon has related how God first visited the Gentiles to take from them a people for his name. And with this the words of the prophets agree, just as it is written. After this I will return, and I will rebuild the tent of David that has fallen. I will rebuild its ruins and I will restore it, that the remnant of mankind may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles who are called by my name, says the Lord, who makes these things known from of old. Therefore, my judgment is that we should not trouble those of the Gentiles who turn to God, but should write to them to abstain from the things polluted by idols. and from sexual immorality, and from what has been strangled, and from blood. For from ancient generations Moses has had in every city those who proclaim him for he is read every Sabbath in the synagogues. This seemed good to the apostles and the elders and the whole church To choose men from among them and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They sent Judas called Bar Sabbas and Silas, leading men among the brothers, with the following letter. The brothers, both the apostles and the elders, to the brothers who are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, greetings. Since we have heard that some persons have gone out from us and troubled you with words unsettling your minds, although we gave them no instructions It has seemed good to us having come to one accord to choose men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will tell you the same things by word of mouth, for it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay on you no greater burden than these requirements. that you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well. Farewell. So, when they were sent off, they went down to Antioch, and having gathered the congregation together, they delivered the letter. And when they had read it, they rejoiced because of its encouragement. And Judas and Silas, who were themselves prophets, encouraged and strengthened the brothers with many words And after they had spent some time, they were sent off in peace by the brothers to those who had sent them. But Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also. After some days, Paul said to Barnabas, Let us return and visit the brothers in every city where we proclaimed the word of the Lord, and see how they are. Now Barnabas wanted to take with them John called Mark, but Paul thought it best not to take with them one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to the work. And there arose a sharp disagreement, so that they separated from each other. Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus, but Paul chose Silas and departed having been commended by the brothers to the grace of the Lord. And he went throughout Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches. Well, Acts chapter 15 is a very important and pivotal chapter for us in the New Testament because it shows us the way for the church to settle these kinds of major theological disputes. The major theological dispute that came up here was whether or not Gentiles who come to faith in Jesus Christ would need to be circumcised according to the custom of Moses, essentially identifying themselves with the Jewish people in order to be saved. In other words, do you need faith in Jesus plus circumcision in order to be saved? Or is faith in Jesus Christ alone sufficient for salvation? Now this is a a big dispute, and for for years, for centuries, for millennia, almost two millennia It had been the case that if you came to identify with God's people, if you entered into God's covenant people, and you were part of the household of faith, you would be circumcised. So this is a big change and uh baptism is actually functioning i in the place of circumcision, but but there's some some men of the Pharisees, some Jewish uh trained people who don't see that transition yet, and who are a little bit confused and who think, well, you know, we are circumcised and baptized. Maybe you need to be circumcised and baptized. Not that baptism saves, but Baptism in the New Testament functions in the same way as being that sacrament of inclusion in God's people. And these these disciples were baptized. They had received the Holy Spirit. They'd been baptized both with water and with the Spirit. And so did they need to also be circumcised? And so they how do they settle this? Now, what amazes me. is that some people see this as an example of a hierarchical church leadership. Because Paul and Barnabas go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders. They see this as being sort of a a bishop's council, right? And because Peter is the first one to stand up in verse 7, after there had been much debate. He stands up and he speaks. They see him functioning as sort of the head of the bishop's council or as the first pope of the church. I think that's a very bizarre way of reading this passage. I think what you have very clearly described in this chapter is a collegial discussion. Among brothers who are all elders and who are fellow leaders in the Church of God Paul and Barnabas didn't go up to Jerusalem in order to just submit to whatever, you know, they went up to make the case. before the leadership in Jerusalem because that's where the problematic teaching was coming from. It was coming out of the Jerusalem church. So you have the Antiochian church and their elders, who get together with the Jerusalem church and their elders, and they have this collegial Elder of discussion. Verse 6 says, the apostles and the elders were gathered together to consider this matter. And after there had been much debate, Peter stood up and said to them, So Peter is summarizing what has been going on in the debate. And Peter doesn't have the final word about it because James also gets up and speaks. If Peter was the first Pope or the chairman of the Bishop's Council, then his word would have been the final word. But it's not the final word. It's not the authoritative declaration. It is, you know, his contribution to the debate. And then James gets up and and says, look, this is, we agree with you. Right? Because James was sort of seen as being the head of the party that was thinking otherwise. Now this is James, not James, the brother of John, son of Zebedee, because remember he was killed by uh Herod. Um he was killed by Herod Agrippa uh earlier. So this is um James, the half-brother of Jesus, the younger brother of Jesus, who becomes a a leader in the church in Jerusalem, and he's he's seen as being sort of the head of of this group. Paul makes reference in Galatians chapter 2 that certain men came from James to Antioch. You can sort of line up Galatians with this Acts 15 and see how this was how this issue was resolved. So a couple of things are clear here. One is that this is being resolved by a collegial discussion among elders with debate and consideration. It is not by fiat, it is not by decree, it is not something that is decided by a few and then handed down to the many. Rather, the elders gather together and discuss it. The whole church, verse 22, uh indicates that there were elders from all over. And so the church was being represented by these elders, uh, and so they were from all over and they were discussing this together. The other thing that's very clear, it shouldn't even need to be said is that this Acts 15 makes it very clear that circumcision is not necessary for salvation. Keeping the dietary laws of Moses not necessary for salvation. That these things are not requirements anymore. In fact, Peter says in verse 10, why are you putting God to the test? by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear. Peter says, Jewish people for generations have never been able to keep this ceremonial law of purity. Be circumcised, eat according to the dietary laws, practice all the feasts and festivals, maintain a purity before God. It can't be done. Like we are not able to do that because in our flesh we're not able to. It's a yoke. And it's a yoke that Jesus lifts off of us by fulfilling the ceremonial law by fulfilling cleanliness and holiness for us. Now does that mean that we can just live however we please? Does that mean if we're saved by grace through the Lord Jesus Christ? And if we're saved just by trusting in him and we don't need anything else for our salvation, does that mean that we can just live however we please? No. Because the Jerusalem Council does say you should abstain from things polluted by idols, from sexual immorality, and from blood. These are things that were culturally prominent. in the Greco-Roman world that were either flat out immoral, you don't eat things sacrificed to idols, you don't practice sexual immorality, those things are immoral. Or they are deeply divisive to the church, eating things that have blood in them or eating the blood. You need to stay away from that because you want so the the the the principle here from the Jerusalem Council is It is not okay, because you're saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ to do things that are immoral. Things that are immoral, things that are wicked, remain immoral and wicked But circumcision and the dietary laws don't fall into that category. They're not moral things. They were ceremonial things. They were cleanliness things. They were holiness codes. And all of that's been fulfilled by Christ. But you still don't act in an in a willfully immoral way as a Christian. So we need to be moral. And we also need to avoid those things that are deeply divisive to the church. that would be so abhorrent or offensive to someone within the church that it would tear apart the church. And that's what eating things that have been strangled or blood would do. It would be so offensive. so deeply offensive. So circumcision, you might say, well circumcision was a divisive issue, but that yeah, but that's a divisive issue that the circumcision party needs to get over. They need to realize that they need to be more accepting of people. But on the other side Eating things with blood is so deeply abhorrent and repulsive to Jewish people that those who would want to do so, they need to get over that And they need to restrain from that. So it there's this idea of getting along and making peace and supporting the unity of the church. The rest of this chapter is the sending out of a letter. which is sent out. And Paul and Martinus go back to Antioch. There's also Judas Barsabbas who goes and Silas. And they go back and they and they tell the church, and the church is happy to receive that word. And then at the very end, um Paul and Barnabas stay in the church in Antioch and they decide we need to go back out on a second missionary journey. We need to go visit the brothers in every city where we proclaimed the word of the Lord. Again, this is more evidence, like I said before, in chapter 14, a few days ago. Good missions is not simply preaching the gospel, winning converts, and then moving on. You plant churches and you make disciples. You make disciples and plant churches. Paul had appointed elders in every city, but these are young churches, these are new believers. They're going to need follow-up. They're going to need care. They're going to need instruction. Part of the way Paul's going to do that is by writing letters, but he's also going to do it by face-to-face visits. So there becomes a dispute, a dissension. over John Mark. This is the John Mark who writes the Gospel of Mark, by the way. And he was young, he was immature, he was weak. And on their first missionary journey, when they got to Pamphilia, and it became pretty obvious that this was going to be really hard work and and might coffee costly, might even lead to injury or uh you know violence. John Mark said, I'm gonna go back home. I am not really in this, like, as deeply as you guys are. Paul? Held that against him. Paul was like, Hey, we went out and we got beaten and we got I got stoned to death. Remember when I got stoned to death and John Mark was back at Antioch, kicking up his feet next to the fireplace, and you know uh enjoying the good life? No, I'm not taking this guy with me. And so there was a dissension. This shows us that the apostles were human beings. They were human beings. They had normal feelings and they had disagreements. Now, thankfully we have a record of later in the Gospels where where John Mark and the Apostle Paul were reconciled to one another, and John Mark becomes a very useful help to to Paul. But at this point Paul says, I don't want Mark with me. He's not reliable. I can't trust him. Barnabas, the son of encouragement is much more willing to want to be patient with Mark and take him along. And so God uses this. See, they're human, they have a dissension, but God uses this to actually multiply the missionary team. See, Paul and Barnabas were going to go out together as one team, but now there's two teams with four guys going out. And isn't that better? You see, God is sovereign even over our sin, even over our disagreements. So just because there's a disagreement, and even if there's some human personality or difference of opinion. We don't need to fret and think, oh no, it's out of control. What's happening? God is at work. God is always at work. And so Paul and Silas, they go up, up to Syria, and then over to Cilicia. They basically go north and then over into the Turkey, present-day Turkey area. And then Barnabas and John Mark, they go to Cyprus. They go to the island of Cyprus. So they're able to go in two different directions with two different teams, cover twice as much ground, and do twice as much work. God is at work. We need to trust him for that. So what do we learn from today's passage? Well, we need to pray for, support, and submit to our elders within the church. Because their role is very important at dealing with theological disputes, trying to maintain the peace and purity of the church, which is part of the membership vows that we take at PCA churches. So we need to pray for, support, and submit to our elders. We need to pray for the purity and the peace of the church, and we need to trust God that he's at work in his church. In all circumstances, even troubling ones that we don't understand, God is still at work for his glory and for the good of his people. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your sovereign hand of grace that is always at work and that never fails. Forgive us for our failings and continue to use us for your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen