So we turn to Psalm 145 to hear from God's Word. Psalm 145 is a song of praise of David. I will extol you, my God and King, and bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever. Great is the Lord. and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. One generation shall commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts On the glorious splendor of your majesty and on your wondrous works, I will meditate. They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds, and I will declare your greatness. They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness. And shall sing aloud of your righteousness. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all And his mercy is over all that he has made. All your works shall give thanks to you, O Lord, and all your saints shall bless you. They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power to make known to the children of man your mighty deeds and the glorious splendor of your kingdom. Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations. The Lord is faithful in all his words and kind in all his works. The Lord upholds all who are falling and raises up all who are bowed down. The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season You open your hand, you satisfy the desire of every living thing. The Lord is righteous in all his ways, and kind in all his ways. All his works. The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth He fulfills the desire of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and saves them. The Lord preserves all who love him, but the wicked he will destroy. My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord, and let all flesh bless his holy name forever. Father, this is your word. It is truth. Write it on our hearts now by your Holy Spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. He may be seated. Do you ever get so excited about something that you just couldn't stop talking about it day after day? Maybe when your first child was born or more likely your first grandchild was born, you were so excited, you had pictures. You wanted to tell everybody day after day. Some of you are are big sports fans and the NFL season is approaching and And some of you are very excited about how the Ravens or the Washington football team commanders name of the week or the Eagles. might do this coming season. Those of us who are Orioles fans might be salivating at the prospect of the possibility of a 100-win season and And uh a long run into the playoffs after years of frustration. But maybe you're not into that. Maybe you got excited when you got your instant pot and you could see all the things that you could do with it. Or maybe it was uh you got a sourdough starter going and you did all those things. Whatever it is, I mean, most of those things, you get really excited about them and you talk about them for a while because they seem to be life changing and they're just important to you, but then o you know, over time your attention wanes and you don't talk about it quite as much, uh maybe you know you you move on to something else that gets your attention. Psalm 145 tells us very clearly that the Lord, the Lord our God and King is the one who is worth talking about, praising, and sharing with others excitedly Every day of our lives and every day into eternity forever and ever. Says three times in this Psalm, forever and ever, forever and ever, forever and ever. We should never grow tired of thinking about, meditating on, praising, speaking of, sharing the greatness and the goodness of our God. Why? Why? It's because of how wonderful God is in and of himself, and also of the wonderful works that he's done. You know, some of us are big Star Wars fans. I know some of you are probably tired of hearing about that, but one of the realities of being a big Star Wars fan is whenever a new Star Wars something comes out, you kind of hold your breath and wonder if it's going to be good or it's going to be disappointing. Because the works of LucasArts have been very uneven. in terms of their excellence. But the works of God are all wonderful. There's no disappointing sequels, last Jedi. There's no like Why did I waste my money? God's works are just one after another, better after better after better. His works of creation and his works of redemption and the coming work of consummation are exceedingly wonderful. Psalm 145 that we come to this morning is actually the last of the Psalms of David that are in the book of Psalms. It's also the last psalm that is in the body of the Psalms. So the Psalms are very intentionally arranged as five books that are then compiled into one book. There's a two-salm introduction to the book of Psalms, Psalms 1 and 2, and then there's a five-salm conclusion at the end of the book of Psalms, Psalms 146 to 146. Psalms 1 and 2 definitively serve as an introduction to the whole of the book. They lay out all of the important themes. and uh things that are going to be explored throughout the book of Psalms. And when I started preaching through the Psalms, we started with Psalms one and two And then at the end you get a crescendo of praise because the last five Psalms, Psalms 146 to 150, all begin and end. With praise the Lord or Hallelujah in the original Hebrew. And they are just a triumphant conclusion of praise. It's also fitting that there are seven of those Psalms that form the intro and the conclusion. to this book of Psalms. What's interesting is within that, the beginning of the body of Psalms is a series of Psalms of David, three, four, five, six. And then the end of the body of Psalms is the last Psalm of David, Psalm 145, and that's what we're looking at this morning. So not only is it the last of the Psalm Psalms of David, but it's also unique in that is the only psalm that has this title, a song of praise. There are lots of songs of praise, you would think. In the Psalms, and there are, but this is the only one that gets that title, A Song of Praise. What is a song of praise? Well, we praise God for who He is and for what He has done And that's true in all praise psalms, but this one is fully dedicated to that in a full way. So it's unpacking for us the greatness and the goodness of who God is and his character. and the wonders of his works. It is a song of praise. It's also the last of nine psalms in the Psalter that are acrostic poems. Now, an acrostic is simply a poem where each succeeding line starts with the next letter of the alphabet. The most famous acrostic psalm. Psalm is the longest one. Psalm 119, that Psalm that's 176 verses long and takes up several pages in your Bible, is actually divided up even in our English Bibles, where the first section says olive, and the second section says bait, and the second section And the next section says Gimel and then Dalit. Those are the letters of the Hebrew alphabet. And within that section, every line within that section starts with that letter. The other acrostic Psalms Have just a line that starts with each letter of the Hebrew alphabet. And not all of them are perfect acrostics. Some of them are missing a letter. And Psalm 145 maybe missing a letter. You may have noticed, if you're really paying attention and you're carefully following along, that when I was in verse 13 The second half of verse 13 is in brackets. The Lord is faithful in all his words and kind in all his words. That's bracketed because that half of verse 13 is not in the standard Hebrew. So if if you for some reason have a King James or a New King James in front of you Of you, you may find those lines, they're not there at all because the standard Hebrew text doesn't have them. But all of the ancient translations of the Hebrew Bible Syriac and Aramaic and others, as well as one of the Dead Sea scrolls that was unearthed that predates uh the standard Hebrew text by hundreds of years, they do have this. And if that line is there, then this is a perfect acrostic of actually 22 verses or lines, which is 22 letters. in the Hebrew alphabet, but if it's not there, then it's an incomplete. So which is it? Is it there or is it not there? It's there. It's in brackets because we're not 100% sure that it's there. Um and does it really matter? I mean, obviously God's word is God's word. My own my own preference is to think that it really is there and that for some reason it got dropped out by Hebrew scribes. uh over the centuries for two reasons. One is that it does complete the acrostic. By the way, this is the one that starts with the letter noon or n. Okay, so that's where it is. So if you put it back in, you have a complete acrostic. If it's not there, you have an incomplete acrostic missing that letter N. And I think David, in writing a song of praise to the Lord, his most complete song of praise But it's true, of course, what it says. The Lord is faithful and In all his words. Is that true? Yes. And the Lord is kind in all of his works. That's not only true, but it's actually repeated in verse 17. Um so it's there twice. So I think it's there, but um I'm not gonna say it's absolutely 100% for certain there because we don't know for sure. And that's okay, because whether it's there or not, the whole meaning of the psalm is not really changed. We know it's true, and it would be true whether it was explicitly in there or not. Because Psalm 145 is an acrostic Psalm, it's a little bit hard to outline, you know, this section, this section, this section, because it's ordered by the letters of the Hebrew alphabet. beginning each line. But there's still generally some sections. And that is sections 1 through 6 broadly focus on the greatness of God. Sections 7 through 10 broadly focus on the goodness of God, the goodness and kindness of God. And then verses 11 through 20 talk about the the kindness of his kingdom, of his rule, of his kingship. So the first part of it, verses 1 through 10, are focused on the character of God, and then verses 11 through 20 on the works of God. And that first section you can kind of divide up between the greatness of his power and the goodness of his character, and then the second part, the focus is really on the kindness of his kingdom. There is a nice symmetry to how the psalm opens and closes, and it opens and closes with David's personal resolution to praise the Lord. He opens with, I will extol you, my God and king. And bless your name forever and ever. And then he ends with, My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord, and let all flesh bless his name forever. Ever and ever. Just one more thing I'm going to tell you is a little bit of background for the Psalm, and that is in traditional Jewish life, Psalm 145 is one that Jewish people would recite or chant. Or sing three times a day, twice in the morning and once in the evening every day. So they would say this psalm Recite it or sing it three times a day, every day. And I think the part of the reason why they did it twice in the morning and once in the evening is that if you look, verses one and two Bless your name forever and ever. Verse 2, praise your name forever and ever. And then verse 21 at the end, bless your whole bless his holy name. Forever and ever. So twice at the beginning and once at the end, there's this call to bless the name of the Lord forever and ever. So they said, well, let's do it. Let's do it every day. Let's do it for all the days of our lives. And we'll teach it to our children, and our children can do it every day of their lives. Because another emphasis here in Psalm 145, which is the title of the Psalm is From One Generation to Another. We're teaching our children to do this. Alright, let's focus in on the first section and let's look at the greatness of God's power. I will extol you, my God and King. I will bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable One generation shall commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts on the glorious splendor of your majesty and on your wondrous works. I will meditate. They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds, and I will declare your greatness. This section, one through six, verse three, is really the heart of it. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be How great is he? His greatness is greatness is unsearchable. Can you ever find out the end of the greatness of God? Can you ever get to the end of it? No. Right? There are in the world endless caverns. That no one has ever tracked to the end of. You guys ever watch video of people who are like nuts and who go far deep into these caverns trying to track them to the end? Like really you have to be mentally unstable. think to do this kind of a thing, especially the ones that go underwater. Um I don't you know, I've seen these videos of people with a scuba tank on and they're squeezing through this tightest little opening. So they can go into the next chamber which they don't have no idea what's there, right? Because God has placed in the earth caverns that are unsearchable. people, a desire to search them out, is he's given us one picture of you cannot figure out, you cannot get to the end. He's so great that he has multiple caverns in the earth that we can't find the end of. And by the way, some of the things they find down in those caves are just spectacular. They've gone into caverns where the entire thing is crystals, you know, and no light is ever shining in there. So it's all not until people came in to see it that we even knew that there were crystals there. The opening of the psalm, though, to go back to verse 1, he says, I will extol you, my God and King. And bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever. So as a song of praise, one thing David does here is he uses three different verbs. for how we praise God. I will extol you, I will bless you, I will praise you. And this is really giving us a full orbed picture of what it means to praise God. God. To extol God is to lift him up so that he can be admired by all around. You know, like Simba at the opening of the Lion King. You they lift him up high so that everyone can see him and admire this one who's born to be the king. That's the idea here. We lift up the Lord. We say God is great. Let me tell you how great he is. I'm going to tell you how great he is so that he'll be lifted up and you will lift up and you will say, God is great. Now the idea of blessing the Lord is a verb that has the exact opposite meaning in the Hebrew, and it is to bow low, to stoop. before the Lord. He is lifted up. We bow low before him. And then to praise in the Hebrew is a verb that means to To shine forth or to illuminate, to put a spotlight on how great God is, or perhaps more better than that, to allow the glory of God to shine Shine forth by pointing out all the ways in which his glory is shining forth uh in the world and to do so through our words and actions. So to lift high, to bow low, to shine forth. David is here summoning all these verbs to say that the praise of God should be consuming our lives and that we should be doing everything we can to try to to magnify for the world how great God is. Magnify. You know there's two kinds of magnification. Right. One is a magnification that makes small things appear big, and the other is a magnification That allows really, really big things that are far away to appear more like they actually are by bringing them closer to us. And that's What I think our praise is supposed to do for ourselves, for one another, and for the world is to say God is really, really great. And again, why should we do this? The first reason is simply because of how great. God truly is. If you've met someone who's really great at something, they've probably impressed you in a way that you were just a little bit in awe of that person. And maybe you wanted to go tell other people about how great that person is at that thing, right? David and Kathy Byron. his their son named Dalvin is is the greatest artist that I've ever known in person. And if you ever get a chance to go to their house, you'll see displayed in their living room some of his oil paintings and he is a great artist. He may not be famous in the world or rich, but he is astounding. You know, if someone can paint a glass of water with oil painting and it looks like a glass of water that you'd want to take out of the painting and drink. It it's astounding. He is a great artist, right? Uh uh Patrick and Aaron are are great musicians. And and Patrick sometimes astounds the members of the music team by just transposing things on the fly, be like, well that's going to be too high for us to sing. Let's just move it to this key. And that means here's the chord progression And he just like does it like it's nothing. And a lot of people are just like, what are you doing? You know? And um, you know, there's people that are just that are just great. I remember when when Gabe uh Reiber first showed me how he could solve a Rubik's Cube in like less than twenty seconds, I was like, that's witchcraft. Because I don't even know how a person does such a thing, right? And then he had these card tricks that he would show us at youth groups sometimes and I was just like, all right, I'm gonna I I don't know what just happened, but that was weird. Uh you just that's weird, right? So we're we're impressed by those things, right? Well here's the thing. If we're impressed by people who are made in God's image and who are gifted in a very small way to reflect some little aspect of God, how much more overwhelmingly impressed should we be by God Himself? God is the great artist who is the source of all beauty and beauty that is alive. I mean, God is the artist who paints sunrises and sunsets every morning and evening all around the globe continually. You think about that. The the turning of the world means a a procession of endless sunrises and sunsets all around the world. And have you ever noticed that you have never in your life seen two that were exactly the same? Same. Because God is beautiful, and He's the source of all beauty. Flowers, butterflies, birds, hummingbirds The variety of beauty. God is infinitely smarter than the most intelligent person you know. DNA is this highly complex code that God uses to program every form of life. From amoeba to sequoias to blue whales to people, everything It's all coded by this code that has just four variables but can produce an infinite variety, even among people, even among humanity, even though we have the same number of chromosomes that have the same same basic function, there are almost 8 billion people in the world and no two are the same Not even identical twins are identical because they have different fingerprints, because God has a creativity in the variety that He makes that goes even beyond our genetic code. God is infinitely smarter than the most intelligent person you've ever known, or infinitely smarter than all of the intelligent people in all the world put together. God is infinitely stronger and more powerful than the most powerful person you know. Some of you may know that one of my little pastimes is that I am interested in strongman competition. I have been ever since college. It's just something I like to watch and be impressed with. And my favorite strong man is a guy named Brian Shaw, who just retired. And in his last ever competition at 41 years old, Brian Shaw, they had a leg press where they were leg pressing an SUV. Now they had it set up so it was 1,850 pounds on the leg press. 1850 pounds on the leg press, and he pressed it 14 times. And he beat everybody in the competition who were all 10 to 15 years younger than him. That's impressive. But it's nothing compared to what God can do, right? God measures the the the the mountains of the earth in a scale. He holds the waters of the deep in the hollow of his hand. He measures out the heavens with a span. He's infinitely stronger and more powerful than all the men in the strongman competition, than all the armies of the earth. put together. He regards the nations of the earth as but dust on the scale compared to his strength. But did you know that God is also infinitely kinder? And more tender-hearted than the kindest, most loving person you know. I've known some patient people in my life some kind, considerate people in my life. I'm married to one of them. And God is so much more than that. He's more kind. He's more patient, he's more tender-hearted, he's more forgiving. And we should delight. In God. How can we do that? One of the ways we can do that is to study his works. Verse 5: David says, I will meditate on your wondrous works. If you find yourself sort of not thinking great thoughts about God or not thinking much about God at all, one of the things you can do is ponder The works of God. Psalm 111, verse 2 says, Great are the works of the Lord studied by all who delight in them. So study them and as you study them realize this is God's work. Study the way that capillary action allows a mature oak tree to drink in fifty fifteen to thirty gallons of water per week and spread it throughout its huge mass, or study how redwood trees in California Grow to be 350 feet tall while only having roots that go about 10 feet underground. How do they do that? You know how they do that? God has designed them so that their root systems intertwine with one another. They literally support each other. And so they're able to To grow to be 350 feet tall and have 500 tons of mass. Or study how killer whales live in isolated and distinct pods that are tight-knit communities that each has its own language. There are hundreds of languages among orcas. Or how a shark can detect a drop of blood in the water from a quarter mile away A drop of blood in the water from a quarter mile away. Study these things. And this is not nerdy science stuff. It's the works of God And by the way, the works of God are also seen in Mozart and in Shakespeare and in Mac McClung, who's a six foot two white guy who can jump so high he almost hits his head on the rim when he does his dunks and he won the NBA Dunk Contest. I keep telling Jeremiah, he's the same height as you. Come on, let's go. No pressure. Because all of us are made in God's image. So whatever creativity we have, whatever intelligence we have, whatever things we're able to discover are given to us by God. And these are the things that should cause us to marvel. But you know what's better than all of these? The greatest work of God is the work of redemption. Because the same God who had wisdom and power and love enough to create all the wonderful things we see in creation is the God who ordered the redemption of his people. people to be revealed progressively throughout Scripture in promises that are all yes in Christ and has secured the redemption of his people through his Son. Jesus. God is not only great in his power and his works, but he's also good. Verses 7 through 10 focus on the goodness of God. They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant They shall sing aloud of your righteousness. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made All your works shall give thanks to you, O Lord, and your saints shall bless you. Have you thought about how terrifying It would be if God were all powerful and unopposable, but not perfectly righteous and abundantly good. There would be no stopping him. You know, the man-made gods of the ancient world were never abundantly good and righteous. were petty, selfish, squabbling, deceitful, manipulative. They got angry easily, and they demanded appeasement that often included human sacrifice. And one of the worst things that people do is that they think those kinds of thoughts about the one true God, the Lord God of heaven and earth. They think that he's egotistical or selfish or petty or capricious. That is not the character of God. The character of God is Laid out for us so clearly in verses eight and nine. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all, and his mercy Is over all that He has made. The Lord is gracious. That means He is kind and generous to treat us with abundant blessings that we don't deserve. Jesus said this. He said, You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemy. And pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, for he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good. and sends rain on the just and the unjust. When God looks at a world full of people who deserve his just and holy wrath because of our continual sin, and rebellion against him, and instead of just retribution, he gives us sunrises and rainfall, food and drink, and family, and rest and music and laughter and every good and perfect gift. This is grace The Lord is gracious. The Lord is also merciful, and mercy is the withholding of the punishment we deserve. You know, every sin deserves the wrath and curse of God Every sin we commit when we lie, when we lust, when we covet, when we envy, when we hate. When we refuse to help others, even though it is within our power to help, when we speak ill of someone instead of using our words to bless and build them up, every sin we commit is a crime against God. So every time that God withholds the punishment we deserve, He is being merciful to us. God is merciful to us. The Lord is slow to anger and abatting Abounding in steadfast love. While the Lord does have a settled anger and hatred of sin, it's reflected here in verse 20: all the wicked he will destroy. He does have a settled anger and hatred of sin. Because sin mars his beautiful creation, it hurts people made in his image. He is slow to anger. He is instead abundant or overflowing with steadfast love for his people. The old hymn, Praise My Soul, the King of Heaven, says he is slow to chide and swift to bless. He blesses us abundantly, day after day, and he loves us to bless us abundantly day after day. And he is slow to anger. The Lord is good to all. While the Lord is covenantly committed to save and keep and bless his own chosen people, all of his creation receives his goodness every moment of every day. There is no one who can say the Lord has not been good to me. Yes, some people have had very difficult lives. But God has showered His goodness into the lives of everyone. Despite trials, conflict, and affliction. The Lord is good to us. all. One of the things we cannot do, one of the things we must not do is to allow our pain or our trials or our affliction to blind us to how good God is continually being to us. Every day we wake up and open our eyes and put our feet on the floor and put one foot in front of another, every beat of our heart, every smile of a friend who cares about us, every everything is the goodness of God to us. And it's a Continually, it's continually being showered upon us, and not reluctantly, not hesitantly, but because God loves us. And the right response to God's abundant goodness is abundant thanks Giving. We should study God's marvelous work so that we would be in awe of His power, but we should appreciate and notice God's goodness so that we would give Him thanks. every day. Marvel at His greatness. Give thanks for His goodness. This should be regularly woven into the pattern of our daily lives And that is really the way that we pass on to the next generation how great and how good God is when they see us marveling at his greatness and giving thanks for his goodness every day of our lives. The character of God's kingdom is shown to us in the second half of the The psalm, which I'm not going to spend as long on the second half as I did on the first half. They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power. They shall make known to the children of man your mighty deeds and the glorious splendor of your kingdom. Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Your dominion endures throughout all generations. The Lord is faithful in all his words and kind in all his words. works. The Lord upholds all who are falling and raises up all who are bowed down. The eyes of all look to you and you give them their Food in due season, you open your hand, you satisfy the desire of every living thing. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind. in all his works. The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and One of the reasons why I think that second half of verse 13 is original to the Psalm. belongs there is that if you look at this section from 13 to 17, you'll see the repetition of the line, kind and all his work. See it there at the end of 13, at the end of 17? And what's in between that are three verses that are bracketed by that repetition. And those three verses really show us how it is that the Lord is kind in all his works. He upholds all who are falling. He raises up all who are bowed down. The eyes of all look to you. You give them their food in due season. You open your hand. You see Satisfy the desire of every living thing. God's programmed this into creation so that we can see it, right? Some of you have hummingbird feeders. Right? Who has a hummingbird feeder? And and what do you know about the hummingbirds? They come back every year to the same exact feeder. Right? They're what this big? Right? Their brains are what? Like a grain of rice big? And yet they they fly hundreds, thousands of miles on their migration And God directs them exactly to where they can be fed. And He provides for them. It's built into how He designed them. It is the goodness of God. It is the goodness of God. Now, we see the goodness of God. We hear of his mercy and his grace. And we think perhaps that verse 20 seems a little bit out of place, that he will destroy all the wicked. But you see, justice too is part of God's goodness and kindness. Allowing wickedness to go unpunished is neither good nor kind. And God is too good and too kind to be unjust. He preserves his own and he blesses his creation, and this requires the destruction of the wicked. One day, God will finally and completely and eternally Eternally destroy all the wicked, and then all of his people and all of his creation will be truly and eternally free. But you should now ask yourself a question. And the question should be wait a minute. Am I not also Also one of the wicked. We talked about how every sin deserves the wrath and curse of God, how every sin we commit is a crime against God, how every time you slander someone, gossip about someone, backbite, lie, lust, covet. It's wicked. Where does wickedness come from? Jesus said it's out of the overflow of the heart that the mouth speaks. So if evil comes out of your mouth, guess where it came from? your heart. Well, if the Lord's going to destroy all the wicked, then how can He be gracious and merciful and abounding in steadfast love? If he's going to destroy all the wicked. And that tension leads us to the greatest work of God. The greatest work of God is that whereby he can be just and the one who justifies wicked sinners. And that is Through the cross. Because on the cross, Jesus Christ, our good and gracious King, He volunteered to be the sacrifice To pay for all of our sins, to be destroyed for us on the cross, so that we could receive the abundant, steadfast love of the Lord. It's the greatest work of God. It shows the power of God that He's able to destroy sin. It shows the love of God that Christ freely gave himself as God the Son for us. It shows the wisdom of God that this was planned from the very beginning, even from before the creation of the world. That Jesus would go to the cross and would take all of the sins of God's people on himself and would crush sin even even as he was crushed for our sins, and then three days later he would rise again, and in rising again he would overthrow death and hell forever for all of those who belong to him. So does God destroy all the wicked? Yes, all the wicked He will destroy. But our sins, if we belong to Jesus, if we believe in Him, if our life is hidden in Him and He is Is our Lord, our sins were all destroyed on the cross. And in God's just and holy sight, we are no longer the wicked. But the righteous. Because Jesus Christ, the righteous one, became sin for us, so that through him we might become the righteousness. of God, and of all of the acts of God that we might be in awe and wonder of the cross and the resurrection. The salvation that cost God, His one and only Son, the Savior who gave Himself for us and who rose again, and who Sits at God's right hand, ever living to make intercession for us, Jesus should capture our wonder and call forth our praise and our Thanksgiving, and we should never ever get bored of hearing it, of telling it, of singing it, of delighting in it. And if you don't know God in that way yet, I pray that you would. out to him and by finding in him full forgiveness, reconciliation to God, and eternal life. It's found nowhere else but at the foot of the cross and in the arms of the Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are the one who does all things well. You are perfect in all your ways. There is no failure or fault in you. Righteous altogether, just and powerful, holy and good and kind. Nowhere do we see that more clearly than in the gift of your I pray that each one of us would receive the gift of Jesus, would enter into the life of Jesus by faith, would be counted as righteous. Because we are in the righteous one, and that we would delight and rejoice and praise you and share it with others forever and ever. In Jesus' name. Amen.