Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 770th day in God's Word together, and we're here in Song of Solomon, chapter 2. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is good. It is rich and beautiful, full of the wisdom for us, full of life. Including these chapters in Song of Solomon that that are beautiful but sometimes difficult to understand and understand how they apply, how we can respond to them. We pray that you give us wisdom by your Holy Spirit. We pray that we would see Christ and his love for us more clearly, and we pray that we would respond faithfully to your word and to your spirits leading through your word in Jesus' name Amen. Okay, Song of Solomon, chapter 2. I am a rose of Sharon, a lily of the valleys As a lily among brambles, so is my love among the young women. As an apple tree among the trees of the forest, so is my beloved among the young men With great delight I sat in his shadow, and his fruit was sweet to my taste. He brought me to the banqueting house, and his banner over me was Love. Sustain me with raisins. Refresh me with apples, for I am sick with love. His left hand is under my head, and his right hand embraces me. I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles or the does of the field, that you not stir up or awaken love until it pleases The voice of my beloved. Behold, he comes, leaping over the mountains, bounding over the hills. My beloved is like a gazelle or a young stag. Behold, there he stands behind our wall, gazing through the windows, looking through the lattice. My beloved speaks and says to me, Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come away. For behold, the winter is past. The rain is over and gone, the flowers appear on the earth, the time of singing has come, and the voice of the turtle dove is heard in our land. The fig tree ripens its figs, and the vines are in blossom, they give forth fragrance. Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come away O my dove, in the clefts of the rock, in the crannies of the cliff, let me see your face, let me hear your voice, for your voice is sweet, and your face is lovely Catch the foxes for us, the little foxes, that spoil the vineyards, for our vineyards are in blossom. My beloved is mine and I am his He grazes among the lilies until the day breathes and the shadows flee. Turn, my beloved, be like a gazelle or a young stag on cleft. Mountains. What a beautiful, beautiful chapter. You may not have understood all of that. That's okay. We're gonna Go through this section by section. And today we are going to again make this dual application. Song of Solomon is a love song. It's a romantic song between a man and a woman about their romantic love, but it is also about Christ and the church because all marriage from the very beginning has always been an earthly picture, reflection, dim and imperfect, for sure, but an earthly picture and reflection of Christ's love for his bride, and the way that we, the church, as the bride, should respond to him. In So we pick out the chapter break as really kind of unusual because the woman is in the middle of speaking And she had just said, Behold, you are beautiful, my beloved, truly delightful. Our couch is green, the beams of our house are cedar, our rafters are pine. And then she says, I am a rose of Sharon a lily of the valleys. So she is she's really opening herself up and the and and being ready to receive and embrace her her lover, her husband. And um and he responds and says, Yes, as a lily among brambles so is my love among the young women. He is he is um reciprocating. So so she she's inviting And he's reciprocating. He's he's elevating her beauty even beyond how she describes herself. She's not just a Rose of Sharon, but she's a lily among brambles. She is She is unique among all the young women. So husbands, you need to show appreciation for your wives. Wives, you need to be open and inviting to your husbands, to your affection and to your intimacy. And there needs to be this rejoicing in that. But then she is also delighting in her husband. As an apple tree among the trees of the forest, it's a sweet fruit tree that also provides shade. So it provides provision and protection. in a sense, right? An apple tree provides you with shade. You can get under it. It has a strong trunk. It's a place where you can find shelter from a storm. But it also will provide you and provide sustenance. This is husbands are called to the role of providing and protecting their wives. And so We should be like that apple tree that welcoming into the shade and providing the need and being a shelter in the storms of life. She says with great delight I sat in his shadow, and his fruit was sweet to my My taste sheet, she delights in being with her husband, she delights in that. And then he brought brought me into his banqueting house, his banner over me was love. Love is that banner that says, you are mine and I am yours, and we will rejoice in belonging to each other. The banqueting house, the ESV has a footnote in the translation. It could mean house of wine, right? It's a place of feasting, it's a place of rejoicing, it's a place of celebration. This should also Even more so than our earthly marriages, because not all Christians get married on earth, and not all marriages of Christians on earth are are wonderful as they should be, right? But for all of us, this should also be a call to our relationship with Christ, that He provides for us. He protects us. And it should be with great delight that we go after Christ and we receive from him what he wants to give us. He gives us the bread of life himself. He gives us the fruit of the Spirit through through through sending His Spirit to fill us and empower us. He gives us encouragement and hope that even death cannot conquer. We should take that from Him. We should receive that from him. And we should long to be actually face to face and with him. Just as this uh this woman is longing for her husband. I'm sick with love. And then his left hand is under my head. His right hand embraces me. He's she's she's she's longing for that. intimacy. But then there's this warning in verse 7, which is interesting because it's repeated a couple of times in in Song of Solomon. It's here in chapter three, verse five, or um sorry, it's here in chapter two, verse seven. It's repeated again in chapter three, verse five, it's then repeated a third time in chapter eight, verse four. So three times It's repeated pretty much word for word. Do not stir up or awaken love until it pleases. And there's a variation of that also in chapter 5, verse 8. So this is repeated. Um and so what this is saying is you can't rush love. You can't force it. It has a timing. Love is demanding and uh and self-sacrificing. It doesn't make demands. It doesn't it doesn't try to force something that is not ready yet. Um it's this is this is good advice for a young couple who's in love and who's not yet married to say don't stir up or awaken love until love, and remember God is love. Until love is pleased with that, until love is saying, Yes, now is the time. So that means don't have sexual intimacy until after you're already married, until the love has come to its rightful place, and then you consummate the marriage after that. But also In a marriage relationship, do you go through seasons and struggles and you can't just force things to happen? Right? Sometimes uh Uh typical situation might happen if there's a a a difficult stretch in a marriage and there's difficult issues that are being dealt with, or maybe a conflict, maybe disagreement, maybe some just maybe just some anxiety or some pressure that they're going through and and one or the other can try to f sort of force it through um and and get their way or get what what you know the intimacy that they desire, but it's not it's not right. The relationship isn't ready for it. Love is not is not pleased. And so you have to you have to work. Marriage requires work. You have to come together, you have to talk things through, you have to pray to God, you have to forgive each other, you have to accept each other, you have to put in the work. So that love is pleased to awaken and to be stirred up within that relationship. And also there's times in our relationship with Christ, aren't there? Times in our relationship with Christ when we feel distant from Him, when he feels distant from us, when when God feels silent and far away. And sometimes we can think that we can force things through with some sort of emotional experience or some sort of you know, go to a retreat, go to a conference, go to a concert, um, and we'll just sort of make it happen, make things go. No, you've got to take time. You have to seek the Lord in season and out of season. You have to seek Him. You have to pray. You have to spend time in His Word. You have to meditate. You have to set aside other things that are distracting you. So that this Love relationship with Jesus can blossom and flourish the way that He wants it to, according to His will and in His timing And we can't force those things. And sometimes we're doing all those things. Sometimes we are spending time in God's Word daily and we're praying and we're really trying to make that our priority, but we still feel sort of cold and distant. Sometimes you just have to keep praying And keep persevering and don't let emotions be the determiner of your relationship. So all that is from that very important refrain that's going to come back again a couple of times. In the future, as we continue through this book. The pursuit. The husband pursues his bride, and the bride adores her husband. husband. The husband comes leaping over mountains, bending over hip, bounding over hills. Jesus went from heaven to earth. Jesus came through every obstacle. He overcame every temptation. He overcame all opposition. in order to lay down his life for us so that we could be ours and and we we could be his and he could be ours forever. And Jesus speaks to us as his bride and says, Arise, my beautiful one, my love, and come away. Come away. When Jesus comes to us When Jesus offers us salvation, when Jesus invites us into his banqueting house, when Jesus spreads his banner of love over us, it is a time of rejoicing. We've been forgiven of all of our sins. The winter of of guilt and shame is The heavy weight of the burden that we bear because of our guilt is past, and it is it is time for joy. And so also in a marriage relationship, the husband should be pursuing his wife to cherish her and to hold her fast and to and to delight over her and and to make her feel like it's springtime, it's flower time, it's singing time, it is joy time because Because the husband loves her. And and and it's got a reciprocal, right? The wife is excited about this. The wife wants to arise, wants to come away, wants to be with her husband. She's very responsive to his in to his initiative there's there's a priority on that relationship so in in a spiritual sense we should we should prioritize our relationship with Christ he is always calling us to come away come alone with him spend time with him and And we should be eager to do that. And in our marriages, we should be eager to have that time that we spend together. Now, what is this about foxes in verse 15? Well, foxes are pests and they wreak havoc. And so there's a need for protection. This is again protection. um expelling the pests. There are pests that come into a marriage relationship. You can get into a bad pattern where you're just watching television or you're just spending time together or you're distracted by other things. These are pests that come in. You gotta get 'em out. You gotta get them out of the vineyards. You gotta get 'em out of of your marriage. Drive out the distractions, drive out the divisions so that you can have time together. And the same thing with our relationship with the Lord. If you're having a hard time concentrating on spending time with the Lord because y you're not getting up early enough in the morning, get up earlier. If you can't get up early in the morning 'cause you didn't go to bed early enough the night before, go to bed early the night before. If you're distracted by your phone, which is ever present and calling you, well put it away. You know? Um I do my Bible reading on my phone every day and I listen to devotional uh I listen to a devotional that I that somebody else does based on the Bible reading plan that I I'm doing through the year. And that's very helpful. But then I can see notifications for text messages or emails and sometimes get sidetracked. I need to I need to set that away. And there are times when I realize, Lord forgive me. I am so distracted. This is our time together, and I need to spend this time with you. And that's what we need. We need time. We need priority. We need passion. This is all part of what makes for a good marriage and all part of what makes for a healthy relationship with the Lord as well. And I love this last stanza. Verses sixteen and seventeen. Shadows flee. I think that's the dawning of eternity, of the new heavens and the new earth, of the new creation. The day will breathe, and the shadows will flee And then we will be rejoicing in the Lord forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you oh so much for just the glorious gift of Jesus Christ. our Savior. He is wonderful beyond description. And he is our Lord. And he is the lover of our souls. And he is the one we can turn to at all times, and he is the one we can pursue, and who pursues us, and who invites us to come along. Help us to make that a priority and help us, those of us who are married, to make our marriage the priority it should be so that it is a more accurate reflection on earth of Christ's love for his church. Help me to do that as a husband to love my wife and to make her the priority that she should be in this life. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining me for Song of Solomon chapter 2. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord