Amen. Amen. That's a wonderful worship song. It really uh draws on the words for this week's sermon as well as next week's sermon, this sort of second half of Romans 8. And so let's turn our attention to God's Word. Romans chapter 8, starting in verse 9, is where I'm going to start reading. And then I'm going to read to verse 27. But our focus today is on 14 to 27. But I want to kind of catch the context. This is describing life for us in the Spirit, how we live by faith, how we live in the Spirit in this age as we wait for the age to come. This is God's holy word. Romans 8. nine to twenty-seven. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to Him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin the spirit is life because of righteousness. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh to live according to the flesh, for if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God, for the creation was subjected to futility. Not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, grown inwardly as we wait eagerly For adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Let's pray Father, you have given us a sure hope in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. You have given us your Holy Spirit, who lives within us and remains with us. You have given us precious promises in the gospel. You have given us a wonderful Savior. Teach us, as we spend time in your word together this morning, teach us by your Holy Spirit. What it means for us to live as children of God, to cry Abba Father, to walk in the Spirit. And to wait with patience for the hope that is to be revealed Write these things deeply in our hearts that we might be transformed from the inside out for your glory and honor, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. You may be seated Have you ever taken one of the plethora of online quizzes that you can take that purport to tell you more about yourself? There's a wide variety of them. My guess is that at one time or another you've probably been tempted to take one or two You could take a Myers-Briggs personality profile and find out if you're an INTJ or an ESFP or whatever all those letters mean. You could take an Enneagram assessment and find out if you're a 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, whatever that means. You could. If you were more serious, uh take an assessment to get yourself sorted into a house at Hogwarts. Or if you really wanted to go deep, there is an online quiz, this is real, where you can find out which Lucky Charms marshmallow truly matches your profile. I bet you didn't know there was a difference, but there is. Well, these kinds of quizzes range from somewhat helpful to just ridiculous and silly. probably have some limited value, perhaps. But the only quiz we really need to take in life That impacts eternity is a simple one. It only has one question, and there's only two possible answers. And the question is, are you a child of God? Are you a child of God? Now, some people believe in the universal fatherhood of God and the universal brotherhood of man In fact, several years ago, there was a famous study done on comparative religion, and they were trying to boil down the essence of each of the major world religions to like a single statement or a single belief. And these wonderful gifted experts who surveyed the world religions, how do you think they summarized Christianity? We might say Jesus is the Son of God and the only Savior for lost sinners who died and rose again and is coming again to save us. We might give the apostles creed. Well, these wonderfully talented researchers said that the essence of Christianity boils down to the universal fatherhood of God and the universal brotherhood of all people. That's not even taught by Christianity. I'm not sure that it's the essence of Christianity. Maybe it was wishful thinking. Now the Bible does teach, of course, that God is the creator of everyone and that we are all his offspring. In Acts 17, Paul uses this term when he's talking to the people of Athens and he's wanting to talk to them about the unknown God. the God whose name they don't know, and he wants to tell them. And he says, we are all his offspring. But that word offspring is very, very different from the word child. And the sense of being a child of God that's highlighted here in Romans 8. We are all his offspring, but only when we are adopted Into the family of God, through faith in Jesus Christ, do we become children of God? And a child, as Jesus said, a slave is no permanent part of the family. He said this in John chapter 8, but a son remains forever. And that is the difference, is that if you are a child of God by adoption, you remain in the family of God forever. Today as we're continuing our study of Romans 8, we're diving into verses 14 to 27 to understand what it means to be a child of God. And I've called this the sonship and the suffering or the groaning and the glory. Because both are involved in being a child of God. There is sonship. There is adoption. There are privileges. There is access to God. There is the love of God. But there's also suffering. There's also groaning. That will lead to glory. Our first point from verses 14 to 17 is that our adoption as sons of God makes us heirs. And allows us to cry, Abba, Father, to God. Now, we might want to correct Scripture. When Scripture says that we are all sons of God, we might want to say, well, we're sons and daughters of God. And of course, that's true. In a sense that God made us male and female and God has adopted men and women and and boys and girls by faith into his family. But in in the in the sense that the word is being used here in Romans 8 If you belong to Christ Jesus, you are in the Son of God, and we are all sons of God. And the importance of that in this context is that means that we are all heirs. We are all heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, and we all cry out by the Spirit, Abba, Father. So let's unpack this a little bit. To be a child of God means that we have special access to the Creator of the universe as our Heavenly Father. But how do we know? How do we know if we are children of God? Well, you become a child of God by having faith in the Lord Jesus. But then being adopted as a child of God manifests itself in your life in several different ways Verse 14 tells us, all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. What does that mean to be led by the Spirit of God? Some people have a picture in mind. that is not really all that helpful, and that is they think being led by the Spirit of God means that that the Holy Spirit makes it clear to us exactly what we're supposed to do in life. Where should I have lunch today, Lord? Lead me. Is it Chipotle or is it Panera? More importantly, people think to be led by the Spirit of God means maybe God's going to show us what college we should go to. Or what person we should marry, or what career we should seek. You know, that the Spirit would just lead us in that way. But that's actually not at all what Paul is talking about here. And what's interesting is If we do a little bit of self-examination, why is it that we want that kind of guidance from God? If we're honest, Because we think that if God will show us the way we should go, that that'll make everything easier. Because if we go to the right college or we marry the right person or we choose the right career, everything will be relatively smooth and easy because it will be God's will for us. Where in the Bible does it say that God's will for his children is to have a smooth and easy life? No. God wants us to walk by faith. And what this what Paul means here of being led by the Spirit of God is not this kind of subjective guidance of the big decisions in life. What it means Is that you increasingly desire and are able to live a life that conforms to God's revealed will in His Word? God says it. We believe it. We want to do it. And increasingly as we mature in Christ. We are able to do it. We're able to give thanks more. We're able to love God better. We're able to love our neighbors better. We're able to be a better husband to our wife. A better wife to our husband. A better par Parent to our children a better Follower of Christ. It's the spirit of holiness leading us to hate our sin, to put to death the deeds of the body, and to lovingly strive after obedience. Now do we ever achieve this perfectly in this life? No, because we all have remaining sin, but to be led by the Spirit is to be wanting to follow Christ in obedience and then being able to obey. Really, really important to get things in the right order. This obedience is not how you become a child of God. You do not become a child of God by obeying God. You are adopted into his family. God doesn't love you less when you disobey. He doesn't love you more when you obey. And if you're a parent and you have children, you understand how this works. You want your children to obey. You teach and train your children to obey for their own good because you love them. And you rejoice when they grow in obedience because it's good for them and because you want them to be better off And when they disobey, it's disappointing and it's frustrating because you know that ultimately they're really hurting themselves. You don't love them less. When they disobey If you don't love them more when they obey, although you are happier for them when they obey, and certainly obeying is better than disobeying. All of this we understand if you've been a parent God has that heart toward us. He loves us. And He's a perfect parent. So I mean if we're honest, there are times when as parents were like, man, if you do that one more time. I'm going to start looking into military boarding schools and you're gonna Or, you know, maybe I'll put you out at the street and with a, you know, free to a good home sign. Um, I think we had days we felt like that when our kids were toddlers and they were like three or four years old. They're like, man, anybody want this kid? But it's a passing thought. And it you know, it goes away by the grace of God. But thankfully God, our Father, is a perfect Father, right? He doesn't get He doesn't run out of patience He doesn't get frustrated and irritated and aggravated and act in sinful ways. And so we take the best part of our fatherly or motherly disposition toward our children that reflects God and we say, okay, he's perfect, and so that's even better. So we don't become children of God by obeying, but if we are children of God, we should obey. And we should obey in a particular kind of way. Because Paul goes on to say, you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption. to fall back into fear. Apart from Christ, apart from being adopted as a child of God, slavery under fear is our natural state. Every unregenerate person, whether they realize it or not, is subconsciously working hard to earn salvation and is fearful that they are falling short. Now they may suppress the truth in unrighteousness. They may pretend that it doesn't bother them, but at 3 o'clock in the morning, when it's just them alone with their thoughts, they realize I Am I a good person? And they're living under slavery to fear But there's a world of difference between a slave and a son. A slave obeys out of fear of punishment or hope of some economic reward. This is why, this is one of the reasons why I really don't like the prosperity gospel and variations of it, because the prosperity gospel says, if you believe And if you obey, God will give you more wealth, more health, more worldly success. That is a slave's attitude A slave's attitude is, let me please the master better so that the master will give me more stuff It's a transactional relationship. It's mercenary. It's economic. That is not the attitude that a child, a loving child, should have toward their parents. Being a child means loving your parents and knowing how much your parents love you. and realizing that when your parents give you instruction, it is for your good. They are on your side. They are wanting you to succeed and they are trying to show you the right way to go Maybe they spent years of their lives running into one brick wall after another because of their stubborn disobedience and they're like, let me show you an easier path that has fewer run-ins to brick walls that go this way. And a child would trust and out of love obey because you know how much your father loves you. How do we go from being a slave to a child? Will we go from being a slave to a child by having all of our sins forgiven? By being clothed in the righteousness of Christ and being brought into the family of God by faith. It requires the cross, the great exchange that takes place at the cross, where Jesus took all of our sins upon himself, he gave us his righteousness in exchange. He said it is finished. He was truly forsaken by God, so that he took all that we have earned and he gives us all that he has earned. That's the only way to become a child of God. You can't earn your way in. There's nothing you could do. But Jesus has done it. And by faith in him, by faith in him, by saying to him, Yes, Lord Jesus, I believe that you are my only forgiveness, you are my only righteousness, you are my only peace. You are my only way to God. We're adopted. And because we're adopted, we now cry, Abba, Father, to God. This has profound legal and personal significance. ABBA Paul, interestingly enough, I think it's a nod to the fact that in Romans, in the church in Rome, there was a mixture of Jewish and Gentile believers. In other words, some people who came to Christ from a Jewish background and some people who came to Christ out of a pagan background. Because when it we read Abba Father, Abba is the Aramaic word, which would have been the common spoken language of the Jewish people living uh in jur uh Israel. And father is a translation of poter, which is the Greek word for father. So it's like Aramaic Greek. It's for Jewish people and for Gentile people. So we we read that Abba Father. It doesn't quite quite come across that way in our translation. In Hebrew culture, by law established, at least you know early on, it's not written in God's word because it's not really nice or good. But established by tradition in Hebrew law was the fact that a slave was actually not allowed to call anybody Abba. Or to be called Abba by anybody. Even their own biological father or their own biological descendant. Because in Jewish law as well as in Roman law throughout the Roman Empire, family relationships between slaves were not recognized. Why? Because they were property. And property is just property. And so it was illegal for a slave to call the master of the house Abba, or even to call his own biological father Abba. So Abba is a mark of freedom. Abba is saying now the God of the universe is not just your judge. Or your master, but he's adopted you into his family. And in it was actually not uncommon. In the Roman Empire, that a slave could be adopted as a son, if the master had no sons. So if a man had no sons, no one to pass along his estate to he could take a favored slave and adopt that slave as a son. And when that slave is adopted as a son, they no longer are slave, and now they have the privilege of calling the master father. Of course, it's so much deeper than just legal, isn't it? When we read this, we cry Abba Father. The Greek word here, krazo, is intense. It is a cry. It sends my mind back to when my kids were much younger. The last time I preached through this passage, it was 11 years ago. So all of my kids were 11 years younger. Um and it's different. I was looking over my sermon notes, actually combined three different sermons for this one. And I thought, wow. That hasn't happened in a long time. One of the things that I remembered and reflected on was that middle of the night waking up from a nightmare cry. Daddy! And I was instantly awake and I was instantly running into the hallway to go find whoever had cried that so I could go and comfort them. because it was the cry of a scared child. I'll let you guess which one of my children did that most often. But I would go into that child's room and sit with them and hold them and pray with them and help them get back to sleep. They had access to me. They knew that if they were scared, I was going to come running. We have that kind of access to God. I don't know if we think about that, but we really do. When we're scared, when we're overwhelmed, when we're desperate, and we cry, Father, he hears us instantly. There's a twofold witness to our being children of God. We're children of God both by being born again. regeneration and by legal adoption. And it's the Holy Spirit who is bearing witness to this reality. The Spirit bears witness with our Spirit. that we are children of God. This is not uh a cheap hollow assurance like someone uh who relies on a date written on a card from a childhood altar call. It is it is a an abiding conscientiousness. That God is our Father and that we are His children. And because we are children, we are heirs of God. And I want you to think about this for a minute. You could take the wealthiest landowner and lord in the ancient world. By the way, many historians estimate that the wealthiest person who ever lived in the history of the world was Caesar Augustus, born Octavian. Because when Caesar Augustus took over the Roman Empire, he had taken Egypt for himself. That means that the entire nation of Egypt was his personal property. And Egypt was the breadbasket of the world. Along the Nile they grew more grain than anywhere else, and the Nile was also a rich fishery, and so all of the economic activity of all of Egypt was belonged personally to Caesar Augustus. And it became the inheritance of all the emperors of Rome. So they may have been the wealthiest people who ever lived if you measure it by you know how much GDP output they have. But even if Caesar Augustus were to begin adopting, with every adopted heir, if he says, I'm going to adopt you and make you my heir, And then he takes another person and says, I'm going to adopt you and make you my heir. What happens to the inheritance? Divided in two. Then he takes a third and says, I'm going to adopt you as my heir, and now everybody gets a third, and then a fourth, and then a fifth, and then a sixth. And if there's a countless multitude, you might think, oh, this inheritance is being divided up, and everybody's only going to get a little slice. Here's the beauty of God. God is infinite, and He is our inheritance. So we never get any less than all of Him. Because he's never diminished. This is going to weigh into Paul's thinking When he thinks about being heirs of God, he's going to be thinking in verse 18 about how how do we possibly compare the sufferings of this present life to the glories that await us. Well, if we're talking about an infinite God and we're talking about eternity And we're talking about the source and the fountainhead of all good and all joy. We can't even begin to wrap our heads around it. There is no diminishing the inheritance that is ours in Christ. It is an infinite inheritance. However, this inheritance does come with a condition at the end of seventeen, provided we suffer with him. In order that we may be glorified with him. If you are a child of God, you're in Christ, and Christ is in you, you're being made more like Christ. Well, guess what Christ did a lot of? Well, he did a lot of praying, he did a lot of obeying, and he did a lot of suffering. And so to be in Christ and to grow to be more like Christ, we're going to grow in our relationship to God, our dependence on God, our prayer to God, our meditating on God's word just like Christ did, but we're also going to suffer. We're going to suffer under temptation, like Jesus did in the desert and in the Garden of Gethsemane. We're also going to suffer under persecution from wicked men, like Jesus did when he was put on trial and beat. And we see that. Of course, we experience suffering under temptation. If you resist temptation at all, you have experienced suffering under the weight of temptation. But maybe we haven't really experienced suffering persecution from wicked men. But of course we know about brothers and sisters who have. We think of our brothers and sisters in the Yumbe district in Uganda who are suffering persecution. or Pastor Charles or others that we know. Alright, so when we get to the end of verse 17, before we get to verse 18, I'm going to give you a summary. of nine marks of a child of God that we can draw from verses 1 to 17 of Romans 8. By the way, I have this as a sheet. It's a actually a two-page, it wasn't supposed to be two pages, but the printer didn't print on both sides like I asked it to. So there's a two-page handout sitting out on the table, full size sheet, two pages, that spells these out and gives you some Bible verses and some things to think about. I highly commend to you for your meditation and reflection later today on the Lord's Day. Take home that and think about it because it's really encouraging and really challenging at the same time. So here are the nine marks of a child of God from Romans 8 verses 1 to 17. First, you have the Spirit of Christ. This is true of every child of God. Some some Christians talk like Only certain Christians have the Holy Spirit, and it's a later blessing. I talked about that last week. But if you are a child of God, you have the Spirit of Christ. And second, Christ is in you And that gives you a sure hope of glory. It also gives you his presence and his peace. He says, I will be with you, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Third, you walk by the Spirit. The Spirit convicts you when you sin. The Spirit encourages you when you are faint-hearted. The Spirit teaches you the things of God. Fourth, you set your mind on the things of the Spirit. The things of God are becoming more and more important to you. They shape more and more of how you think. Fifth, you desire to submit to God's law and please God. Sixth, you are putting to death your sins by the Spirit. Seventh, you are led by the Spirit in holiness of life Eighth, you cry Abba Father to God. And ninth, you suffer with Christ. Each one of those, as I said, is worth meditating on, thinking about, and praying about, so I would commend the two-page handout from the table for you to take home. But if you're a child of God, just know that you do have the Spirit of Christ. Christ is in you. You are walking by the Spirit, and you can walk by the Spirit more and more. Your mind is already set on the things of the Spirit and can be more and more set on the things of the Spirit You already have a desire to please God with your life. You can grow in that desire. You are already, by the Spirit, putting to death your sins. You may not see it, but if you look back over the course of your life, you can probably see that growth You can grow in that more and more. You're led by the Spirit in holiness of life. You cry Abba Father to God, and you suffer with Christ. If you can honestly say, no, I don't think any of those nine things are true about me. I don't really desire to please God. My sin doesn't really bother me. I don't really want to obey God. I don't really have a relationship with Jesus where I call upon God as my Father and I want to walk in fellowship with Him. If you can honestly say, no, I don't think any of those nine things are true about me. Then I would urge you to stop right where you are and pray. And you can simply say, Lord, I need you. I want to be your child. I want your Holy Spirit in me. I want to be led by the Spirit. I want to belong to you. I can't save myself. You're my only hope. And God promises that anyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. No one who puts their hope in him will be put to shame. Don't leave here. Don't get up from that seat. without praying earnestly to the Lord. If you sat here and you said, nope, none of those nine marks are true about me. Maybe I'm faking it, maybe I'm fooling everybody else, but in my heart it's empty. Talk to God right now. Ask him to save you. Secondly, we get to verse 18, and we transition from this assurance of sonship to the groaning. The suffering. So our second main point is creation groans because it's in bondage. And in hope, it waits for the revealing of the sons of God when it will be liberated. So creation groans because it is in bondage. In hope it waits for the revealing of the sons of God when it will be liberated. Paul begins here with a calculation. He uses a word that we've seen one other time, I've pointed it out to you in Romans, when he says, For I consider, at the beginning of verse 18, It's this accounting term, uh logizomai, and if you keep your finger on Romans 8 and you turn back to Romans chapter 6, Romans chapter six, verse eleven. At the time I pointed out to you that this, Romans 6. 11, is the first command in the book of Romans. It's the first imperative, the first verb that's telling us to do something in the whole book of Romans. And it is, so you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. So we've been told so far in Romans to consider, to take an account of, it's an accounting term. Write down in the ledger book, take an account of two realities. The first reality is that you are dead to sin and you are alive to God in Christ Jesus. That means sin is no longer your master, you no longer have to obey sin. Sin is no longer the tyrant who sits on the throne of your life. If you're in Christ, that is true. Consider that. Write it down. It's what is factual. The second thing that we're to write down Is a comparison between the sufferings of this present time and the glory that is to be revealed in us. And to us. And what we consider when we try to make that comparison is that they can't be compared. Because by definition, hear this, by definition, you cannot compare something finite to something infinite. You cannot compare something temporary to something eternal. And that's the comparison that we would have to make here. Imagine it this way. I'll give you an earthly example, even though the earthly example pales in comparison. Imagine you're working a job that makes fifty thousand dollars a year And you have two hundred thousand dollars in unsecured personal debt. Not a mortgage on a house. Just unsecured personal debt of $200,000 and you're earning $50,000 a year. How does that feel? What's the weight of that? Pretty suffocating, right? Well then imagine you suddenly receive an inheritance from a forgotten uncle. And all of a sudden you get $100 million deposited in your bank account. Now how does the $200,000 unsecured personal debt feel? It's nothing all of a sudden, like, okay, done with that. Let's move on. And that is dealing with finite things. We're now asked to compare the finite to the infinite. The infinite inheritance is is beyond our comparison. Catherine had a saying when she was five years old, because I wrote it down in my notes. She used to say this a lot. When she was trying to say how big something is. Right? How big is it? This is the expression. I'm gonna say it the way she used to say it. A thousand infinity triple one So if you're trying to compare the sufferings of this life to the glory to come, the glory to come is a thousand infinity triple one, whatever that means. That meant something to five-year-old Catherine What's coming is beyond comparison. And to just give us an example, you think of the Apostle Paul. You think you know suffering? The Apostle Paul gives us an account of his suffering in 2 Corinthians. And what he tells us is that he endured thirty-nine lashes five times. Five times. That he was beaten with rods. He was stoned and left for dead. He was shipwrecked three times. And all of this, he said, is a light, momentary affliction. That was working for him an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. So Paul's not sitting here in the ivory tower of isolated bliss and saying, oh, don't worry about your sufferings, they don't compare. to the glory to come. He's a guy who suffered. If you read about his missionary journeys in the book of Acts, I mean, what would we think if we got a missionary report? from a missionary. How did things go? Well, we went to this town and we started preaching the gospel and after a few days everybody wanted to kill us, so we had to leave. We went to the next town, we started preaching the gospel, and they got so mad that they stoned me and I'm pretty sure I died. Um but then I came back up and I went on to the next town And those people organized a mob and they wouldn't stop chanting, uh, calling for my death for like two hours in a row, and then finally I had to be put into jail for my own safety, and they beat me while I was in jail, and then they released me. And the next town We would say, what? What are are you okay? Like what's wrong with you? And then he says, Yeah, I'm planning on going back out. I'm going to revisit all those same places again. We would say, you know, I think we have a padded room that you could spend a little bit of time in, and we'll have a counselor who can talk to you because you want to go back to the same places where all this just happened to you Oh yeah, there are Christians there who came to know the Lord, and I have to encourage them, I have to make sure that they have good leadership for their churches. But almost everybody was trying to kill you. And they beat you several times and they left you for dead. Oh yeah, but I have to go back there What can give you that perspective? Only eternity. Only knowing that whatever it is we suffer, it's temporary. Some of you are suffering under Intense burdens. You've lost loved ones, spouses. You've got a really bad cancer diagnosis. You've got strain in your family that very, very few people know about. You've got uncertainty in your life, and you live with anxiety that's crippling These really are light and momentary afflictions. Because an eternal weight of glory is coming that outshines them all. Creation itself, Paul tells us, is waiting, is longing for the revealing of the sons of God. Creation wants this glory to come. J. B. Phillips, in his paraphrase of this verse, he says that creation is standing on tiptoes. Creation is eagerly waiting, standing on tiptoes, waiting for the sons of God to be revealed. Because creation has been subjected to futility. In two ways. One is that creation's very purpose is being undermined by human sin. And then the other is that creation is marred with savagery that was not part of God's original intended purpose for creation. So the first one, what is the purpose of creation? Why did God create everything? We get a hint of it when Jesus was riding into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday. And all the leaders were telling the people who were shouting, Hosanna, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, blessed be the Son of David, the one long-awaited king. All the leaders were saying, Be quiet, be quiet, be quiet, be quiet. And what did Jesus say? If you tell these to be quiet, the very stones will cry out. Because creation was made to glorify God. Every time someone visits Niagara Falls and stands on that railing looking down at that majestic waterfall. And doesn't say, praise God, you are so glorious. Creation is frustrated. It's futile because like, wait, we're here to glorify God. And you came and you saw this and you didn't glorify God. Springtime is an annual proclamation of resurrection That's what Martin Luther said. Martin Luther said that God has written the story of resurrection not only in the four gospels, but in every springtime. And every time people miss it, Creation is subjected to futility. It's not able to accomplish its purpose. In the new creation Creation will fulfill its purpose because it will be beautiful and we will all praise God for it. We will not miss who made it. But the other thing is that creation is being subjected to the bondage of corruption. So not only futility, but the bondage of corruption. I remember in college something, you know certain things you watch just last, they stay with you for years, other things you forget about. I watched a nature documentary in college that for some reason just really stuck with me. even all these years later. And in this nature documentary, there was a pack of hyenas who came upon a lioness who had some cubs. And the pack of hyenas worked to systematically distract the lioness and carry carry off her cubs. I think there were three cubs, and each one was taken one at a time, until in the end the lioness was left alone, and her babies were being eaten. And I and I watched that and I just wept. And I thought, this is not, this is not, this can't be what God proclaimed to be very good. And it's not. Creation is being subjected to the bondage of corruption. There's death, there's disease. Darwinism just calls it the survival of the fittest. And naturalists will just tell you that nature is red in tooth and claw. But God pronounced his creation very good, and he meant it, and he is not pleased by a world of savagery, of droughts, of hailstorms, of plagues. These are the curse. And creation is waiting for that curse to be lifted. And it will be lifted when Jesus comes again. That's why creation groans, Paul says, in the pains of childbirth. A man should never try to even talk about the pains of childbirth. It's like a rule, you know. I've never even passed a kidney stone, so I have I have nothing that I can compare to it except I can say that in the ancient world, the pains of childbirth were very really life-threatening. Like No modern medicine, no epidurals, no uh no pain relievers, no uh drugs that would help with managing labor, none of that. And very, very painful and a very high death rate. So when Paul talks about the pains of childbirth, you have to remove all of our modern medical safeties and treatments. And yet At the end of the pain of childbirth is a joyous outcome. That new life is in the mother's arms. And I have been blessed to witness this multiple times. Some of you know that I was a nursing major once upon a time in a fast life. But I did my OB rotation. So I sat I sat in on and attended to a number of different uh childbirths and and it's amazing every time you you would see a woman who's just having a really, really difficult labor and really struggling. And then the baby's born and the doctor, you know, says the baby's healthy, wraps the baby up, gives it to the mom, and the mom is just glowing with joy. For this child. That's coming. The joy is coming. The joy is coming. But it's not just creation that groans. We groan. We groan Point three, believers cry along with creation for the redemption of our bodies. For our full adoption, the redemption of our bodies. As we wait in patience, the Spirit helps us in our weakness and intercedes for us We're going to move through this relatively quickly, this third point. But again, believers cry along with creation for our full adoption. The redemption of our bodies, as we wait in patience, the Spirit helps us in our weakness and intercedes for us. Paul says, we've received the first fruits of the Spirit. First fruits are that first part of the harvest that comes in and that you can eat from and you can say, okay, this is going to be a good crop, and so there's joy and anticipation at the rest of the crop that's going to come in. The Holy Spirit is our down payment. We've received the down payment, but the fullness of the inheritance has not yet come. That's where we are. And so we're in a place of being blessed, but also a place of waiting. And Paul says that we groan inwardly, just like creation. We were made to glorify God. We were created to glorify and enjoy Him. And when we go for stretches of time without glorifying and enjoying God, we Hate it. We groan. They're like, I'm so tired. I've been depressed. I've been anxious. I've been struggling with doubt. I've been struggling with this sin. I just want this to be over I just want to get past this. I want I want to glorify and enjoy God the way that I was created to, the way that I was redeemed to. And God will give us glimpses of that joy. He'll bring us To a worship service where we can sing God's praises together with His people. He'll bring a Christian friend alongside to encourage us and pray for us, and we'll come out of that season and we'll feel much better, but we know it's not the much better that we're ultimately waiting for. And then we might go back into a season of being frustrated. We groan with that longing. So when I said earlier, if you think none of the nine marks of a child of God apply to you, if there is a groaning, if there is a longing. For the glory of God, that is a sure evidence that you are a child of God. Because you care, because it bothers you When Jesus comes again, we are going to be Fully redeemed. Our bodies will be fully redeemed. Our bodies will not get old. They will not get sick And there is this connection between how our bodies are feeling and then how our our spirits feel, how our souls feel, because we are embodied souls I was sick this week and thankful that I'm feeling mostly better by today. But I am a baby when I get sick. I really don't I mean Beth gets sick and she's just a trooper. She just keeps going. Um, but I'm like, I'm sick, I can't do anything. I I did I did I tried to do as much as I could do, but um but I was feeling pretty miserable uh Thursday, Friday. Um And I don't like I don't like the way that I start acting when I'm sick. Because I get selfish and I get grumpy and I get lazy and I get self-pitying. And I'm like, why am I this way? I'm just stop doing that, right? That's that also part of that frustrated groaning. But it's a groaning in hope. It's a groaning in hope. Creation waits in hope. We groan in hope. Now let's talk about hope for just a minute because hope is not like the world uses the word hope. Hope We say I hope I'll win the lottery. I don't say that because I don't buy lottery tickets, but people will say I hope I'll win the lottery. I say something almost as uh equally unlikely. I say things like, man, I hope the Orioles make the playoffs this year. Or man, I hope the Orioles win the World Series sometime in my lifetime. Yeah. Anyway. But that's not biblical hope. Biblical hope is a sure and certain thing. It is an anchor. for the soul. Because our hope is a person, Jesus Christ, who is very real and who is very alive and who is very much seated at the right hand of God the Father and who is coming again. The words of the Apostles' Creed are true, and they give us an anchor of hope for our souls. It's not a hope we can see, we don't see Jesus. But by faith we know we know that he's coming. And so we wait. We wait. Waiting can be difficult. When you're waiting, Jeremiah right now is waiting to be finished with high school. He's got two and a half more months, basically, and he is done with it. Sorry. It's true. I remember I Beth and I got engaged her sophomore year of college. And I had asked her dad for permission and he said yes. He said, but you there's no way you're getting married before she graduates from college. She's going to have that degree and walk across that stage before you get married. So we had to wait. Two and a half years. That was a long, hard wait. But it's waiting that ends with joy. It's waiting that ends with joy. Soon Jeremiah will graduate. Beth and I did get married, and soon Jesus will come again. It's a waiting with a sure and certain hope at the end. And as we wait, the Holy Spirit helps us. He's our help in prayer. Believers cry. This is point four. Believers cry along with creation for our full adoption. Nope, I already gave that. I'm going backwards. I don't know what I'm doing. All right. The Spirit helps us. Sometimes in our waiting, we don't even know how to pray. And I love that the Apostle Paul, who's like the expert on prayer, he literally wrote prayers in the Bible. Like the book of Ephesians has two beautiful prayers and models for prayer that the church has used for 2,000 years. He he wrote inspired prayers from God to give to the church. He always talks about he how he's praying for everybody. He's he's a wonderfully gifted Spirit-empowered prayer. And yet he says, sometimes we don't know how to how to pray. We don't know what to pray for as we ought to pray for. And in those times, the Holy Spirit translates With groans that are too deep for words. He groans with us. He groans for us. He intercedes. It's actually a very strong word that Paul uses here for intercedes. He he hyper-intercedes. He he carries it up for us. Um we don't always know how to pray. But I love uh in their book Carolyn Nystrom and J. I. Packer in a book they wrote on prayer, they put it beautifully. They said, don't fret, just pray. God fixes our prayers on the way up. If he does not answer the prayer we made, he answers the prayer we should have made. That is all anyone needs to know. So don't be a perfectionist in prayer. Just pray. Pour out your heart to the Lord. The Holy Spirit will fix your prayer on the way up, and God will answer the prayer that you should have made. Because sometimes when he says no, it's because we were praying wrongly, and God overrules us in his wisdom. My nephew, Daniel, who's now 23 years old, I'm going to embarrass somebody besides my kids. When he was three and four years old, he wanted to drive the car. You ever had a little kid like this who's like like would sit in the driver's seat and be like, I drive the car. Like, no, you're not going to drive the car. Yes, I drive the car. Now, my sister is not a crazy person. So she never once gave four-year-old Daniel the keys and was like, go ahead, take it for a spin. See how it goes. Never once. The answer was always and consistently and repeatedly no. And sometimes we don't realize it, but sometimes we're four-year-olds asking for the keys of the car. And so God has to say no. That wouldn't be good for you. If I gave that to you, you don't know the consequences. You're not ready for it. And sometimes a no is wait, and sometimes a no is just no. So while we wait, we have to pray, we have to trust the Holy Spirit. We have to trust that good is coming. Sometimes in this world can feel a little bit like sitting in the dentist chair, one of my least favorite activities in this life. And you endure the dentist chair, not because it's enjoyable, but because you need the outcome that's going to come. Jesus is coming again. Every eye will see him, every knee will bow, every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord, and when he comes again, we will be able to see that everything we went through was worth it. And everything we went through was part of the story that he was telling and part of the tapestry that he was weaving to make glory more glorious. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the gift of your Son Jesus, our Savior. Thank you that we have a sure hope in Him. Our souls are anchored to Him. Who sits at your right hand, who has gone ahead of us, the pioneer of our salvation. Help us to hold tight to Jesus until we are face to face with him in glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.