Good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 38th week together, and we begin with John 16, verses 16 to 24, asking, when will our sorrow turn to joy? Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It's truth. It shows us our Savior. It shows us our need. It gives us comfort and promises, but it also gives us challenge. As we think about the world and our place in it, deepen our faith in Jesus as we spend time in your word today. We pray this in his name. Amen. Amen. When will our sorrow turn to joy? Here's John 16, 16 to 24. A little while, and you will see me no longer. And again a little while, and you will see me. So some of his disciples said to one another, What is this he says to us, a little while and you will not see me, and again a little while and you will see me, and because I am going to the Father? So they were saying, What does he mean by a little while? We do not know what he is talking about. Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him, so he said to them, Is this what you are asking yourselves, what I mean by saying, a little while and you will not see me, and again a little while and you will see me? Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn to joy. When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come. But when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you. In that day you will ask nothing of me Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full. When will our sorrow turn to joy? We live in a fallen world. It's full of immorality and God hating and we long to know God, but our own hearts are often so cold and God often seems a million miles away. The world either patronizes or mocks or condemns our faith, thinking we're either children, fools, or madmen. We watch our culture spiral in its death grip of toxicity, embracing that which kills and rejecting that which gives life. We lose loved ones. When will our sorrow turn to joy? One of my favorite singer-songwriters is Andrew Peterson, and in one of his songs he has a line that says, Life is not long, but it is hard. We all struggle. Don't we? We struggle with sin. We long to be holy. We fall and we're overcome with shame again and again. We know we're saved by the righteousness of Jesus, but we long for that righteousness. to penetrate our own hearts more deeply and truly. Our faith falters, our prayers are weak, our doubts rise, we run back to the cross again and again. Jesus told us that we would weep and lament. And we have seen how true his words were. Those three days the disciples spent in hiding and mourning after the death of Jesus before his resurrection, they feel like a parable for our lives at times. But Jesus also said that our sorrow would be turned to joy. Jesus also said that our longing would be fulfilled That the mocking of the world would be turned on its head. Jesus also said that no one would be able to take our joy from us. But when will our sorrow be turned to joy? Well, thankfully, in this life, God does give us glimpses of joy. Wonderful moments of worship, of assurance, of peace, of love. But ultimately, our sorrow only permanently turns to joy when we see Him. Only when our eyes behold what our hearts have long desired will sorrow suddenly turn to joy Notice that Jesus says, your sorrow will be turned into joy. The very sorrow of the disciples in watching their Lord be shamefully and painfully hung on the cross was itself turned into joy. by the resurrection in the face of the risen Jesus. They saw the love. They saw the love that took him to the cross in his hands, in his feet, in his sides. The scars of the risen Lord, the very things that caused them sorrow, were turned into joy, as they now saw them as signs of victory, signs of forgiveness, signs of love. Like the disciples in the upper room on that first Lord's Day, we will see the risen Lord Jesus face to face. And like the disciples, we will see our sorrow turn into joy. My favorite writers have always captured this spirit well in their writing. One of those is The Lord of the Rings, J. R. Tolkien. And then the last book of The Lord of the Rings, Samwise Gamgee, who is one of my favorite literary heroes of all time. He asks Gandalf, is everything sad going to come untrue? When Jesus comes again, we will see the reality. of Gandalf's reply to Sam. Gandalf says, a great shadow has departed. Because we will no longer walk in the valley of the shadow of death. And so all of the sad things will come untrue. And what is that last book of the Lord of the Rings called? The Return of the King. It is in the return of the king that the great shadow is departing, and everything sad comes untrue. C. S. Lewis, very close friend of Gerard Tolkien, in The Great Divorce, he wrote Some say of temporal suffering, no future bliss can make up for it, not knowing that heaven, once attained, will work backwards and turn even that agony into a joy. In the meantime, we pray. And God hears and graciously answers. We long, and God gives us enough glimpses of glory and relief from the sorrow to encourage our hearts. And keep us walking one step at a time, trusting in him. But our hearts can never be complete until we are at home with him. Once we see that, the journey becomes less marred by disappointments and more and more filled with the anticipation of his glory, of that day when our sorrow will be turned to joy. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the resurrection of Jesus, which has guaranteed that our sorrow will turn to joy. You are the God of resurrection, the God of redemption, the God of unfailing hope. Let us trust you today and always we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining us as we've kicked off week 38 of Walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.