Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We've started a new week, week 26 As we're continuing to work our way through the Gospels and also learning how to pray the Psalms, we are in Luke chapter 12, verses 35 to 58, basically the second half of Luke. And we're going to be asking this question, how can we stay spiritually awake? How can we stay spiritually awake? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for a new day. Thank you for life that you've given to us. Thank you for your Son, Jesus, our Savior. Would you please lead us in trusting in Jesus and being spiritually alert and engaged with you throughout this day. Be our teacher and our guide as we look at your word and look to you through your word today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Luke twelve, thirty-five to fifty-nine. Stay dressed for action. Keep your lamps burning. And be like men who are waiting for their master to come home from the wedding feast, so that they may open the door to him at once when he comes and knocks. Blessed are those servants whom the master finds awake when he comes. Truly I say to you, he will dress himself for service and have them recline at table, and he will come and serve them. If he comes in the second watch or in the third and finds them awake, blessed are those servants. But know this That if the master of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have left his house to be broken into. You also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. Peter said, Lord Are you telling this parable for us or for all? And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and wise manager, whom his master will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the proper time? Blessed is that servant, whom his master will find so doing when he comes. Truly I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions But if that servant says to himself, My master is delayed in coming, and begins to beat the male and female servants and to eat and drink and get drunk The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him, and in an hour when he does not know, and will cut him into pieces and put him with the unfaithful. and that servant who knew his master's will, but did not get ready or act according to his will will receive a severe beating. But the one who did not know and did what deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. Every one to whom much was given, of him much will be required. and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will demand the more. I came to cast fire on the earth And would that it were already kindled. I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how great is my distress until it is accomplished! Do you think that I have come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division. From now on, in one house there will be five divided, three against two, and two against three. They will be divided father against son and son against father, mother against daughter, and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and daughter-in-law Against her mother-in-law He also said to the crowds, When you see a cloud rising in the west, you say at once, a shower is coming, and so it happens. And when you see the south wind blowing, you say, There will be scorching heat, and it happens. You hypocrites, you know how to interpret the appearance of earth and sky, but why do you not know how to interpret the present time? And why do you not judge for yourselves what is right? As you go with your accuser before the magistrate, make an effort to settle with him on the way. Lest he drag you to the judge and the judge hand you over to the officer and the officer put you in prison. I tell you, you will never get out until you have paid the very last pen. So how can we stay spiritually awake? Surely every true believer wants to receive God's blessing and commendation on his or her life, right? Well, in today's reading, Jesus emphasizes the importance of remaining spiritually awake and ready when he returns. He contrasts this attitude with that of servants who would found to be lazy neglect neglectful, even abusive when the Master comes. Can you imagine the joy of the blessing that Jesus pronounces in verse 37? The very idea that Jesus would come and and would serve his servants while they recline at table should motivate us to want to be spiritually awake when he comes. No greater honor or privilege could be imagined than to have the Lord Jesus serve us in his kingdom. So how can we stay awake? As is so often the case with Jesus' teaching in the Gospels, if we keep on reading, we find the answers to our questions. Even things that might not seem connected at first fit together if we just keep reading and thinking and praying. So what do we find when we read on in Luke 12? Well, in verses 41 to 48, we find that we must not abuse the privileges of knowing Jesus and serving in his kingdom. The type of servant described by Jesus in this paragraph is sadly all too common in the Kingdom of God. Many pastors, church leaders, ministry leaders, and others have used their positions to abuse, exploit, or to even oppress the people of God. Jesus says that these people will be punished severely, and those who should have known better will be held to the highest standard. Well, part of staying awake is to make sure we are not drifting into being this kind of servant, but also to be alert and watchful against this kind of exploitation and to expose it for what it is. Secondly, we must realize we are in a war, and we must be prepared to be rejected. This is in verses 49 to 53. Jesus does not call us to a comfortable life of complacency. He calls us to a fierce loyalty to himself and his kingdom. He warns us and calls us. To be prepared to be rejected. Part of the staying awake is to never lose sight of the reality or nature of the conflict we live in. And then verses 54 to 56, we need to be able to understand the times in which we live. We need to be able to understand our culture and its corruption and dangers. We need to be able to understand what the church's calling is as God's prophetic voice in the midst of a crooked and depraved generation. And finally, in verses 57 to 59, we need to make things right when we do wrong and make amends quickly. Jesus did not expect us to be sinless. Part of being awake is to be aware of the times when we fail and to be quick to make amends, to repent and confess and seek to make things right. Jesus tells us what he expects of us as his servants. He tells us what we're supposed to be doing and what we need to avoid. More importantly, he gives us his Holy Spirit to dwell within us. and his people to walk alongside us. Together, by the power of his spirit, we stand as his people in a corrupt, deceptive, and intoxicating world. May the Lord give us the grace to stay awake, aware, engaged, and waiting until he comes again. Psalm 122 I was glad when they said to me, Let us go to the house of the Lord. Our feet have been standing within your gates, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem. built as a city that is firmly bound together, to which the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord, as was decreed for Israel, to give thanks to the name of the Lord. Their thrones for judgment were set, the thrones of the house of Israel. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. May they be secure who love you. Peace be within your walls and security within your towers. For my brothers and companions' sake, I will say, peace be within you. For the sake of the house of the Lord our God, I will seek your good. Psalm one twenty-two is a beautiful Psalm. By the way, our um Worship music leader Patrick Fulford has written a wonderful arrangement of this psalm set to music that he wrote. If you want to find it, you can just go to our YouTube channel and search for Psalm 122. It's a beautiful song and it's one of our favorites. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your church is built beautifully and powerfully by you. Lord Jesus, you are building your church. We're told by you, Lord Jesus, to be awake and alert and ready for your coming. A part of that is to be devoted to the life of your church, to the unity and strength and maturity of your church, and not to our own self-interest, not to our own self-indulgence. Father, forgive us for when we are self-indulgent, lazy, neglectful, proud, and humble us. May we be aware of the spiritual warfare we're in. May we be aware of the times in which we live. May we be aware of the calling that you've given to us and the people. The people of God with whom you've called us to serve in your kingdom. May we be kingdom-minded and hearted in all that we do. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining us again on Walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today was a blessing to you. Hope you can join me again tomorrow. As always, have a blessed day in the Lord.