Let's turn now to Psalm 36. You'll find it on page 465 in your Bibles if you want to use one of the church Bibles. Psalm thirty-six is written to the choir master Of David the servant or slave of the Lord. Transgression speaks to the wicked deep in his heart. There is no fear of God before his eyes. For he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated The words of his mouth are trouble and deceit. He has ceased to act wisely and do good. He plots trouble while on his bed. He sets himself in a way that is not good. He does not reject evil. Your steadfast love, O Lord, extends to the heavens. Your faithfulness to the clouds. Your righteousness is like the mountains of God. Your judgments are like the great deep. Man and beast you save, O Lord. How precious is your steadfast love, O God. The children of mankind take refuge in the shadow of your wings. They feast on the abundance of your house, and you give them drink from the river of your delights, for with you is the fountain of life in your light. Do we see light? Oh, continue your steadfast love to those who know you, and your righteousness to the upright of heart Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me, nor the hand of the wicked drive me away. There, the evildoers lie fallen. They are thrust down, unable to rise. This is the word of God. Let's pray Heavenly Father, please write your word on our hearts. Holy Spirit, come and speak to us. Show us the glory and beauty of our Savior. And work in our hearts what is pleasing in your sight. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Psalm 36 tells us about the steadfast love of the Lord in the face of a realistic assessment of evil. One of the objections that people sometimes raise against the Bible is that they don't think it's very realistic. They'll say, oh yeah, I know the Bible Religion. Well, you know, I've got to deal with life in the real world. That's all pie in the sky and the by and by, and it all sounds nice in the Sunday school class, but we deal with the real world and real life Interestingly enough, there's actually been an sort of an opposite objection to the Bible that's been growing in popularity in recent years. And that is that some people have a hard time with some of some of the realism of the Bible. In fact, they go so far as to say the Bible is too soft on evil and wickedness. It actually endorses Wicked things like slavery and rape and murder and war. I find both of these objections, these opposite objections, to be very interesting because as I read the Bible, I find that the Bible is very realistic about the world in which we live, a world that is full of evil. But it's also very realistic about where that evil comes from and pulls no punches in condemning that evil for what it is. And actually think that this is the reason why people don't understand the Bible and why they object to the Bible is because of where the Bible locates the problem and the source of evil. Because in the world, the world wants to say that people are basically good But we live in a world full of evil that's out there, and that if we could just Fill in the blank. If we could just fix the economy, if we could just get a more just governmental system, if we could just have world peace, if we could just Whatever, then we could end all this evil and pain and suffering in the world, and the world would be a better place. But that's unrealistic. Because people who are basically good don't get together and create a world that is full of evil. That's just not reality. And what the Bible tells us is that the reason why we have a world full of evil is that it's full of people who are full of evil. And that the problem is in here And that the only solution is not us figuring it out and fixing the government or fixing the economy or fixing international politics or the next great peace treaty. The solution is the steadfast love of the Lord. So the point, the main point of Psalm 36 is this: evil arises from corrupt hearts. And the steadfast love of the Lord is our only hope for salvation from it. Evil arises from corrupt human hearts. And the steadfast love of the Lord is the only hope for salvation from it. Psalm 36 is written for the choirmaster, which means it was written to be sung by God's gathered people in worship. We've been doing more of that this summer, singing the Psalms before we hear them. I am thankful for this seed bed is where I'm drawing these, the ones that we're singing, and you'll see that on the top of the insert, the the website there. Um it's a it's a group that's putting together modern metrical arrangements of the psalms. You find that sometimes If you're singing the metrical arrangements of the Psalms from the 1500s, sixteen hundreds, it's just hard to follow. It's hard to understand exactly what's being said all the time. So this is a Pretty pretty faithful modern rendition of the Psalms, and then they give you a selection of different hymn tunes that you could sing them to, and so it's been helpful. for that because they were written to be sung. And uh it's a little bit surprising, some of them. You think, wow, this is pretty dark. be singing together in worship. But that's actually the realism that God wants us to deal with. God doesn't want us to be escapist and to pretend like everything is rosy. David writes this and he calls himself the servant of the Lord. Just a couple of Psalms where David uses that title of himself. And the word translated servant, as I said when I read it, is actually the most common Hebrew word for slave. So it's actually probably better translated as David the slave of the Lord, which is interesting because that is actually the Apostle Paul's favorite title for himself. In the New Testament, the Apostle Paul most commonly refers to himself as Paul, a slave of Jesus Christ. And so, a king, the greatest missionary in the history of the church. The author of the Psalms, the author of half the books of the New Testament, the way they saw themselves is as a slave to the Lord. And that was a place of comfort and a place of security for them. Now Psalm thirty-six opens with the first stanza of the first four verses that are pretty dark. It's it's a pretty much a a a big downer. I don't think if you were to think how am I gonna write a hit song, you know, that would get a lot of stream. You probably wouldn't sit down and start off with transgression speaks to the wicked deep in his heart. There is no fear of God before his eyes, for he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated The words of his mouth are trouble and deceit. He ceased to act wisely and do good. He plots trouble while on his bed. He sets himself in a way that is not good. He does not reject evil. Boy That's dark. I actually really like the way that our metrical psalm translated the opening line. An oracle speaks deep within the heart of wicked man. That's actually a better literal translation of that opening line. Transgression speaks to the wicked. It's the oracle of transgression. To the heart of the wicked or the guilty man, the oracle of transgression. And what that means, the way that's put up, is it's as if transgression is the God and is speaking a prophetic word to the heart of the wicked. In other words, we all worship someone or something. And what Psalm 36 is telling us is that there's either the fear of the Lord that is your center and your driver, or it's transgression, rebellion. Lawlessness. I'm going to do what I want to do. And that's your God. That becomes your God. Transgression. Why does the wicked hear the voice of transgression? It is simply because there is no fear of God before their eyes. And this word, this Hebrew word for fear, is actually the most intense. form of a Hebrew word for fear, so it's like the terror or the dread of the Lord. There's no terror. There's no dread. And it it goes along with what he says in verse 2 that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated. There is a scoffing of the idea that God is holy and that He is the judge and that He will bring all wickedness to light and will judge it with an intense holiness. In our culture in recent years, there's a popular slogan that goes around certain circles, only God can judge me. I don't know if you've seen this. I remember I was standing on a fishing pier near uh Fort Lauderdale, Florida, years ago. And we were watching these guys bring in these fish. And I looked, and the guy next to me had that tattooed like really big across his back. Only God can judge me. And I just I really just wanted to say, you know he's going to, right? Because the attitude that comes with that slogan is not usually one of humility and of the fear of the Lord that says, God will judge me. But it's rather a brash boasting to say, back off. I'm going to do what I want to do. Only God can judge me. But he will. And we don't begin to see the truth until that right dread, that right terror of the Lord grips a whole of our hearts and we realize our iniquity will be found out and will be hated. And if that's the voice we've been listening to, if that's the God we've been worshiping, it's going to be exposed in the Day of Judgment. So the heart of the wicked is this no fear of God, self-flattery. I'm a good person. You know, I realized some of you are probably old enough to remember, although I'm sure you never watched, uh, the Jerry Springer show. These trashy daytime talk shows where people would just come on who were doing the most ridiculously, outlandishly crazy things. And you think like, why is this popular? Why are people watching this? These people are weird. These people are disgusting. These people are just and and they're and they're flaunting it, right? Why why is this popular? And and someone who watched the show regularly, who will go unnamed, told me, they're like, I like watching this because it makes me feel like my life is pretty good. And I realized that must be at least part of the appeal. It's like, well, I may not have it all together, but at least I'm not that. And that's self-flattery. It's self-flattery that says, well, if God grades on a curve, I'll be better off than those people. And that self-flattery, so verses 1 and 2 describe the heart of the wicked, that self-flattery, that lack of the fear of God, it manifests itself in real ways. First of all, in the words of the mouth. Jesus said it's out of the overflow of the heart that the mouth speaks And then in action. So the words of his mouth are trouble and deceit, and then action. Things he doesn't do and things he does. He ceased to act wisely and do good. He plots trouble while on his bed. He sets himself in a way that is not good. He does not reject evil. Now I thought the language here was interesting because he has ceased to act wisely and do good. Means that maybe at one time this person that David has in mind was acting wisely and doing good. But now he stopped. And I thought, although we're not given any information about the circumstances of David's life in which this was written, I thought. Now there are two times that we know of recorded in Scripture where David was being really hounded by someone who was out to get him. And both of those, King Saul and his son Absalom, both of those were men who at one time were listening to God and walking according to wisdom, but then decided No. I'm going to take things into my own hands. In Saul's case, he's like, I I've got to do something to stop David from becoming the next king, because it'll ruin my dynasty. And in Absalom's case, he's like, I've got to take justice into my own hands because my dad won't do it, so I'm going to do it. And once they turned, once they went down that path, they stopped acting wisely. They stopped doing what is good. And I thought how painful that would be in particular for David as a father to deal with that with his own son. To think Absalom was brought up to know the Lord, to walk in his ways. He he did have a sense of justice and propriety. If you know the whole backstory, it's because his sister was raped. by his half-brother that that Absalom was was incensed and got on this path. So it was actually a sense of justice and a sense of of righteousness that really fueled him. And and yet he got off track because he decided, I'm gonna have to take this into my own hands. I'm gonna have to make this right. King Saul the same way. King Saul didn't actually want to be king, but he submitted to the will of the Lord who anointed him as king and calls him to be king and at first things were going well but then when david appeared to be a threat he's like well I've got to protect my dynasty. He didn't even want to be king, but now he's like, I gotta protect my dynasty for my for my boys When we think that we have to fix things We have to make things right. We have to. It is so amazing to me how quick Quickly we can start to justify really terrible behavior. Selfish, manipulative, deceitful, plotting, because we think I've got to fix this. I've got to make this right. But who is this person that I mean I talked about Saul and I talked about Absalom, but there's actually a really good reason why we don't have the background life of circumstances of David. It's so that we won't just try to say, oh, this is about King Saul or oh this is about Absalom Because our temptation is to read these first four verses and think, wow, it's almost like the Jerry Springer show. Like, wow, that whoever this person is, they're really messed up. Glad I'm not that person. And then God does something very interesting with Psalm 36. In that he inspires the Apostle Paul to take that line There is no fear of God before their eyes from the end of verse 1, and to place it at the end of Paul's description Of the universal condition of all human beings apart from God. We find that description in Romans 3. Romans 3, verses 10 to 18. This is what the Apostle Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, says about all people. None is righteous, no, not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave, they use their tongues to deceive, the venom of asps is under their lips, their mouth is full of curses and bitterness, their feet are swift to To shed blood in their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. And he's talking about us You, me, in our natural condition, apart from the grace of God So we can't just take verses 1 to 4 and say, I'm glad that's not me. Instead, we have to say, wait a minute, maybe that is me, if I don't know the Lord. Or that would be me if it weren't for the grace of God. Or it could be me if I'm just faking my way through this. And God doesn't really have my heart. It's about us Seems kind of stark to be about all people, though. I mean I know some very nice, kind, and polite unbelievers who are good people. You probably do too. In fact, I'm willing to guess that you probably know some unbelievers who are nicer Kinder and better people than some believers you know. So how can this be about everybody? Well, because whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. It matters as much why you do something as what you do. Man looks on outward appearance, the Lord looks on the heart. Now it's true that people are not as bad as they could possibly be because God in His common grace restrains human wickedness. He leaves much good in the world by his grace. But if the motivation of the heart is not for the glory of God and is not out of faith in God, then what is being done is not good because it's being done for self. It's easy, it especially in our society, where people are basically well-behaved and polite, well-mannered to each other, and where doing good is often applauded. It's easy. To be a good person. Because you want other people to think you are a good person, or you want to think of yourself as being a good person, and that is actually sin. That's actually wickedness because you're trying to contradict the Word of God and you're trying to deny your need for the gospel. Ephesians 2 tells us that we're all born dead in our sins and trespasses, and that we follow the pattern of the world, the lies of Satan, and the cravings of our flesh without exception. Without the right fear of God, without a heart that is tender toward him, we only live according to our own opinions and for our own desires, and that is sin, whether that leads us to serve in a soup kitchen or rob a bank. Spiritually, if we're doing it just from ourselves and for ourselves, there really is no difference. It's godless behavior. It's selfish behavior It's self-serving. So we need to take seriously that this is a portrait of every human being, or we won't see how wonderful the steadfast love of the Lord is. And we get our turn to the steadfast love of the Lord there at the beginning of verse 5. Three times in Psalm 36, in the heart of this psalm. We have your steadfast love, O Lord. In verse 5, it extends to the heavens. It's so great. In verse 7, it's precious. It's delightful. And then in verse 10, it's, oh, continue your steadfast love. The heart of this psalm, I I've said this before in our series, you look at the opening, you look at the close, you look at the middle, you can sort of see the structure of a psalm, and this is that way. The opening and the close provide the frame in which David is Painting us a portrait of the steadfast love of the Lord. And the frame is the reality that we live in a world of evil and even evil that comes from our own hearts. That's the framework of it But in the middle of this psalm is really these two central stanzas, verses 5 and 6 and verses 7 and 9, that are this beautiful portrait of the steadfast love of the Lord. It's almost like like a painting where there's like this ugly black frame and then just this most beautiful picture in the middle of it. Middle. And the contrast between the two helps you to see the beauty of what's in the middle. And that beauty is the chesed of the Lord, the steadfast love of the Lord. And the two major things that David is bringing out is first of all how great it is, how awesome, how powerful, how how stable, how enduring, how great it is. But then secondly, how good it is, how sweet it is, how refreshing it is. So first the greatness, your steadfast love, O Lord, extends to the heavens. Your faithfulness to the clouds. Your righteousness is like the mountains of God. Your judgments are like the great deep. Man and beast, you save, O Lord. And what I love about this particular stanza is really it starts with the greatness of the Hasid of the Lord, of the steadfast love of the Lord, and then the other attributes of God flow from that It's because God's steadfast love is so great that his faithfulness means he's never going to break a promise. If God makes a promise, God keeps the promise. No excuses. Every one of us here can think of a time when we have broken a promise that we probably fully intended to keep when we made it But we're not God. And so, but God never breaks a promise. His righteousness, that is his uprightness. The justness of God is like the mountains of God. That's like strong, mighty mountains. And the judgments of God, that is, his ways, his judgments, his decisions, his governing providence, are like the great deep. Means we can't ever get to the bottom of them. We can't ever figure out exactly what God is doing. But if you start with a steadfast love of the Lord, you know that his judgments are good. It says, man and beast, you save, O Lord. So there are times when we, I love this because in a world of evil In a world of pain and suffering, there are times when we can't figure out what God is doing There are times when they just uh recently finally released the report on what happened to the Titan submersible that went down to look at the sunken Titanic. Did you guys see that? Um you remember when that happened, this billionaire guy, you know, this arrogant, brash guy is like, hey, I'll make a sub different for everybody else's. And And it popped and they all died. And so they just came out with a report of what happened. It really was a tale of arrogance, just thinking, oh I don't need the safety protocol, I don't need the inspections, I don't need to keep I've built something that nobody else has ever built, you know, the rules don't apply to me, kind of an attitude. But they were they were trying to plumb the depths, they were trying to get down to where the Titanic was and it just exploded. Really. Well, for us, in our little pea brains, when we think, I'm going to figure out what God is doing here, why is this happening? Well, the judgments of God are like the great deep. You can't go there. Your little pea brain, my little pea brain, can't handle it. It's beyond us. But if we start with your steadfast love extends to the heavens, And your faithfulness to the clouds and your righteousness is like the mountains of God. God loves us far better than we could ever imagine. God never breaks a promise and God's uprightness, God's justness is unshakable. If we start with that Then we say, even though I can't get there, I can't understand why God is doing this. It's too deep for me. I will trust him. Because I started with his love. And then I went to his faithfulness, and then I went to his justness. Before I ever started to try to plumb the depths of what is God doing here. God's steadfast love is great. It's far greater than we could possibly imagine. But it's also sweet. It's precious How precious is your steadfast love, O Lord. The children of mankind take refuge in the shadow of your wings. Jesus, when he wept over Jerusalem, he said, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often I have wanted to gather you together. As a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing. We can find refuge, refuge, security, shelter, protection. A hiding place in the shadow of God's wings because He loves us. Because He loves us. And there they feast on the abundance of your house, and you give them drink from the river of your delights For with you is the fountain of life. In your light we see light. It's a beautiful picture, and what's amazing is that the Apostle John in particular draws out for us in his gospel and in Revelation. How Jesus is the fulfillment, especially in verses 8 and 9. I listened to a great sermon from a pastor named Matthew Walker. And he highlighted these connections between Psalm 36 and the Gospel of John and the book of Revelation, just in these four lines of these two verses of 8 and 9. In John 1, John tells us that in Jesus is the light, and the light is the life of men. We see that in verse 9. For with you is the fountain of life. In your light do we see See light. All light, all life comes from Jesus. He is the source. In John 8 and 9, Jesus said, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will do, will have the light of God. And then They give you give them drink from the river of your delights. Remember the conversation Jesus had with the woman at the well in John 4? What did he offer her? Living water. He said, if you knew who it was who's asking you for a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living water. And she says, Where is this living water? How do you get it? And then later in John 7, Jesus stands up in the middle of the temple and he says, If anyone believes in me, rivers of living water will flow out from him. Because Jesus is the water of life, and through the Holy Spirit living within us, he gives us the waters of life, and they flow, and we we we drink from the river of God's delights in Christ Jesus. And then in Revelation, we're told about the abundant feast that we're invited to, the wedding supper of the Lamb. And we're also told that we are invited to come and drink of the water of life. So Jesus is the fulfillment of these lines. He is the Hesed of God. given to us as the gift, and he's the one who gives us light. That means he gives us truth. He gives us the ability to see what's real and what's good and what's worthy of our time and what's not. You can sort the treasure from the trash in the light of Jesus and what he shows us. He gives us life. We're dead without him, but he makes us alive to God forevermore. And it's an eternal life that we begin to experience in this life and then into all of eternity. Himself as the bread of life to feast upon, to sustain us, to strengthen us. And and it's it's pleasant, it's it's it's pleasurable, it's delightful. And so not only is God so strong and And so mighty and so great that no one can come against him, no one can shake him, no one can rattle him, no one can remove him, but he's so good to us So often we're tempted to think, oh, I gotta have this thing that the world is going after. I was just watching a little short video about the history of the Um, you know on the carousels we go get the golden ring. They still do that? Or have they shut that down for safety regulations Uh yeah. So I think up in Knobles was the last place I I did that. They still do it in Knobles. Anybody done every single? Okay, good. Good for that. Although it is kind of an image of like the f the foolishness of chasing after the world. Like right, I'm gonna I'm gonna try and I remember being a kid, like desperately needing to get that gold ring and and trying hard and and like risking, but then and then you finally get it. And what do you get for the gold ring? One more ride on the carousel. Oh, is that it? Like, and so the world is kind of like that. It's like, hey, here's this gold ring. You can have it. It's here. Right? The next promotion, you know, the next big thing. It's here. Just just reach out more. Just risk a little bit more. Just try a little bit harder and you get it. And you're like, okay, what do I get? How about more of the same? And and Jesus comes and says, hey, if you're hungry I've got real food for you. It's me. I'm going to give you myself. If you're thirsty, I've got real refreshment for your soul from the Holy Spirit who will bring you all of the benefits of my redemption and my life. For you forever. And when this life is over, you will enjoy the abundance of the goodness of the pleasures of God forever and ever. That is worth pursuing. Do we believe it? Do we believe that an infinitely powerful and holy God would take such interest in us, would love us so much? That he would delight in blessing us in rich and abundant ways with true satisfaction and joy and real delight. Will we look to him for that? David's response here in verse 10 shows that he gets it, because when you get that this is how good God is, when you get that this is what God has for his people, The thing you pray is what David prays in verse 10. Oh, continue your steadfast love to those who know you And your righteousness to the upright in heart. The upright in heart are those, of course, who God has made upright by his grace through faith in Christ. In other words, if we see that Jesus is all that we need, what we want is more of Jesus. And so we say, continue this. What does that mean? It means we're asking God to keep us In the faith and to keep being good to us. We're asking the Holy Spirit to continue to strengthen our faith, deepen our experience of grace when we most need it, to remind us. And to apply to our souls the steadfast love of the Lord in the darkest and hardest times. It is when we are afraid Or angry, or lonely, that we are tempted to think Well, that's just words. That's just that's the pastor talking on a Sunday morning and it sounds good. But I'm here last night. At 1230. I finally went up into my attic to take a look at the air handler. So I don't know if you most of you I think got the email, but we got home from vacation. yesterday shortly after ten PM and we walked into the house and it was eighty five degrees. And we're like, oh no. And so we turned everything off on the air conditioner, turned off the circuit breaker, turn Turn up the system and then we wait a few seconds and power it back up and the outside unit starts going like, okay, good, it's running, so it's gonna but then it's not working. And Cold air is not coming out of the vents like it should. And I eventually I put together, okay, the air handler that's up in the attic. That's what's not working. So I decide I really need to go up there and take a look at it The last time I went up into my attic, which I don't do very often because it involves a ladder and and then it's dark and it's midnight. But the last time I was in my attic, there was a six-foot-long snake skin. Like right there as I got into the attic. So it's 1230. It's hot in our house. I just want to sleep. And I'm going up with a flashlight into the attic. And I was scared. I was like a little boy. I was like I told Beth that I was going up the ladder. I said, if I see some critter up here, you're gonna hear me scream like a little girl and come down this ladder as quick as I possibly can 'Cause uh we've heard squirrel activity up there and I did steal off the place where I thought the squirrels were getting in, but you never know, right? I'm like if something jumps out at me from the dark, I'm gonna lose it But those are the times like when you're afraid, and I mean really afraid, you know, or when something is out of your control and you're that's when that's when the rubber meets the road. That's when it's like, do I really believe this stuff Or do I think, I've got to make this happen, I've got to take control of this, I've got to be my own savior somehow. God wants us at those times to realize his love for us isn't less, it hasn't changed. It's just as strong, it's just as good as it is when we're out on the boat on the lake, enjoying a beautiful sunny afternoon, right? It's the same. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And this is what Jesus said in John 10. My sheep hear my voice. And I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I And the Father are one. God loves us that much. He gives us eternal life, and then he holds us in his hand. And what we pray is, oh Lord, continue. Your steadfast love to us. Just keep keeping us. And keep keeping us. And that's a prayer that God is pleased to answer. And then there's the negative that we end with, let not the foot of arrogance come upon me. This is a reference to having like a tyrant rule over you because If a if a tyrant conquers a land, one of the things they would do is take the ruler of the land, who would beat David in this point, and lay him down on the ground and put put their foot on their neck. as a way of saying, you are under me and don't you ever forget it. And so he's like, don't let that happen to me We confessed it earlier in our worship service that God, by his grace, has set us free from the tyranny of the devil. And so part of what we're praying is don't let the devil put his foot on my neck and say, you're mine, because he's not. He doesn't have that power over us. Or the hand of the wicked drive me away. And that would be away from the presence of the Lord. That could be through temptation or We don't want that to happen. Away from the Lord, there, away from the Lord, the evildoers lie fallen. They're thrust down, unable to rise. It's a negative conclusion, but it's actually a positive reminder. This is a positive reminder. You are harassed. We've talked about this before. You have an enemy. He hates you He hates you because God made you, and then he hates you even more because God loves you and God has saved you, and so he harasses you. And and we're praying that he wouldn't Have dominion over us, that he wouldn't tyrannize us, or that he wouldn't drive us away from God. But we're also reminded that away from the Lord. is where the evildoers, Satan, his minions, and all who follow him, are thrust down Unable to rise. In other words, you are being harassed, you are being tempted, you are being tormented, but it's temporary. It's only for a little time These light, momentary afflictions are working for us a weight of glory that is beyond all comparison. It's only for a little time. And so if we focus on the steadfast love of the Lord in this world of evil, we can watch the news. You realize that the people who make the news, they want you to be either afraid or angry. Or both. And there's a very simple reason why they want you to be afraid or angry or both, because you'll keep watching the news. They've done studies. The more afraid, the more angry you are, the more you stay locked in on the thing. But the fear of the Lord should turn you away. And when you see that you're like, yeah, that's terrible. God's not called me to be the person that does anything about it. I can pray about it. But I'm not gonna let that dominate my life. I'm gonna Serve the Lord. Or cancer. To get closer to home. God's got it. He's got it. And he's got you through it. And we don't know what the outcome is going to be in this life, but we know what the outcome is for all eternity. And in the end, it's only temporary. Or whatever you're dealing with. Loss, depression, anxiety. It's all temporary. It's all temporary. If we fix our hearts, we fix our minds, we fix our focus on eternal things, we realize God will bring us through all of this. Forever. Will we trust him? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are so good and so great. No one could possibly snatch us out of your hands because you are far greater than anyone and everyone put together. So help us to rest trusting in you. Help us to rejoice trusting in you. Help us to wait trusting in you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen