Psalm 17, a prayer of David. Hear a just cause, O Lord. Attend to my cry. Give ear to my prayer from lips free of deceit. From your presence, let my vindication come. Let your eyes behold the right You have tried my heart. You have visited me by night. You have tested me, and you will find nothing. I have purposed that my mouth will not transgress. With regard to the works of man, by the word of your lips I have avoided the ways of the violent My steps have held fast to your pads. My feet have not slipped I call upon you, for you will answer me, O God. Incline your ear to me, hear my words. Wondrously show your steadfast love, O Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at your right hand. Keep me as the apple of your eye. Hide me in the shadow of your wings, from the wicked who do me violence, my deadly enemies who surround me. They close their hearts to pity. With their mouths they speak arrogantly. They have now surrounded our steps. They set their eyes to cast us to the ground. He is like a lion eager to tear. As a young lion lurking in ambush, arise, O Lord, confront him, subdue him, deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword. From men by your hand, O Lord, from men of the world whose portion is in this life, you fill their womb with treasure. They are satisfied with children, and they leave their abundance to their infants as for me. I shall behold your face in righteousness. When I awake I shall be satisfied with your likeness. Heavenly Father, what a precious word you have given to us powerful, life-giving. We need you to write this word on our hearts as only your Holy Spirit can do. We need you to show us Christ that we might treasure Him and follow Him and become more like Him. We need you to be our refuge The one whose love for us is wondrous and steadfast. The one who keeps us. So we pray this, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Have you ever been wrongly accused of something you didn't do? It's not a very fun situation to be in if you've ever been. Or have you ever had someone assign bad motives to your actions thinking the worst of you? At those times when those things happen to us, it's helpful to have people who know you well to support and encourage you, people who know your heart, people who understand you. Or have you ever been threatened in some way? Threatened with harm? If you're threatened, it's helpful to know that there are people who are stronger than your adversary who can defend you. Psalm 17 is a psalm where David is seeking vindication from the Lord. He has been wrongly accused, and he's in danger because of the false accusations against him. We don't know exactly where in David's life this comes from, but it does fit well with the time when Saul, the king was making false accusations that David was trying to seek the kingdom for himself and overthrow Saul and it fits with that with that time period. And we know that it was time when David was being falsely accused of things that were not true of him, and that that was putting his life in danger And so, whatever the situation was, David turns to the Lord, because the Lord is the one who knows him perfectly and is able to deliver him from his enemies. You know, it's good to have human comfort when with people that we love. We should all be thankful for the people that God has put into our lives who know us and who love us and who can support us at times when we are Shaky when we're wavering, when we're feeling vulnerable. It's good to have human protection against violent attack. We should be very thankful for police officers and the military who protect and serve us and our country. But there's a limit, isn't there? There's a limit to the encouragement and support that we can get from other people. There's a limit to the protection that can be provided by other people. Ultimately we need The steadfast love of the Lord to be our shelter, our shield, our refuge. Ultimately, nothing and no one less than God Himself can be our true and eternal vindication. And part of that is because we need to realize it's one thing to have people talking bad about you, accusing you of things that you haven't done. It's one thing to have people assigning bad motives to your actions. It's one thing to have people even plotting against you. But we have a far more deadly enemy than that. We have a far more deadly enemy. He's hinted at here in Psalm 17 If you look with me, in the last part of the psalm, David talks about they, the wicked, the enemies. Verse 10, he says, They close their hearts to pity. With their mouths they speak arrogantly. They have now surrounded our steps. They set their eyes to cast us to the ground. And then all of a sudden, verse 12, he is like a lion eager to tear, as a young lion lurking in ambush. He goes from they to he. Now, in David's life, we could imagine maybe he's talking about King Saul if it's if this was that period of time. Maybe he's thinking about all the men, you know, there were people like Doeg the Edomite and others who were Saul's henchmen and they could be the they, and then he could be turning and thinking about he. But here's what we need to know See, sometimes we need to take these Psalms and New Testamentize them. They really are already about Christ. and for us, but we need to do some thinking to make sure that we understand explicitly how they are about Christ and for us. And that's part of what we're going to be doing today as we typically do when we're in the Psalms, at least we try to Does verse 12 sound familiar to you? He is like a lion eager to tear, as a young lion lurking in ambush. Peter talks about the lion. In 1 Peter 5, he says Be sober and vigilant, for your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. And ultimately we know that behind the they, whoever the they are, there is a he, and it is Satan. The enemy of our souls, our adversary, the father of lies. Paul reminds us in Ephesians 6: we don't wrestle against flesh and blood. But against the rulers, against the principalities, against the powers of evil in the heavenly places. Our battle, it may look like, oh, there's people who are badmouthing me, oh, there's people who are plotting things. Against God's people. And there are. I mean, there are places in the world where the government is violently persecuting Christians for being Christians. There are certainly people involved, but the ultimate battle is not against those people. Those people are being held captive by Satan to do his will. So the other side of it is, even if you think, oh, I don't have any enemies, Everybody likes me. I'm a nice person. Why would anyone have a grudge against me? Even if you are in a blessed place where you can say that, that's not the whole truth. Because there is an enemy. And he is slandering you, and he is attacking you, and he is looking to destroy you. And you need vindication. You need protection from him. And very often when he's attacking, you don't even notice that it's him attacking. But you need the vindication from him. So let's think for a minute about how we get from David to Christ to believers. Because, you know, David says some things in Psalm 17 that are a little bit shocking. If we know David's life at all. Think about what David says here in Psalm 17. You have tried my heart, you have visited me by night, you have tested me, and you will find nothing. I have purposed that my mouth will not transgress. My steps have held fast to your paths. My feet have not slipped. Can you pray that to God? I I can't. Now we need to understand that in in David's context of what David was facing He's not claiming an absolute sinlessness. He's not saying I've never ever sinned against you, God, because that would obviously be false. He is saying that in the situation that he's facing, and if it was Saul, it would certainly be true there, but even later when it was Absalom or maybe somebody else. David is saying, in this situation, I am the innocent party. I'm the one who's being lied about. I'm the one who's being plotted against, and I haven't done anything wrong, and that's true. But the words are so strong because ultimately Psalm 17 isn't about David. As with all the Psalms, they are all ultimately about Christ. And the language is so strong because the Holy Spirit is inspiring David to speak beyond his own circumstances to the greater David, the greater son of David, the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus was falsely accused repeatedly by earthly enemies, and he was attacked repeatedly by Satan. Jesus' earthly enemies accused him of casting out demons by the power of Satan. They said, Hey, it's by the Elzebub that you're casting out these demons. And Jesus said, Oh really? A house divided against itself cannot stand. If Satan's casting out Satan, then his kingdom will soon be overthrown. And if I cast out demons by Satan, by whom do your sons cast them out? Jesus was innocent, of course, of that ridiculous. They accused him of blasphemy. Because he said he was the Son of God. It's not blasphemy if you are the Son of God. They accuse him of being a threat to their positions of power. And this David had a lot, Jesus had a lot in common with David. You see, the king at the time, King Saul, saw David as a threat to his power, even though David was not deliberately seeking to overthrow Saul. He was trusting God. Those who were in power in Jesus' day saw Jesus as a threat to their power, although Jesus was not interested in their petty positions of power. They accused Jesus of being a Samaritan, of being an illegitimate child. Probably both of these accusations arose from rumors surrounding his questionable birth circumstances. I think it's funny when modern people think, oh, of course we don't believe in the virgin birth. Sometimes people say say this so puffed up with arrogant pride. Oh we're we're modern, sophisticated people. We're we're scientific in our knowledge. So of course we don't believe in the virgin birth We know how babies are made. Well, you know, maybe people who say that don't realize this, but people in the ancient world knew very well how babies are babies were made too. It wasn't a mystery to them. And they could also count to nine. And they knew that Mary was already several months pregnant when she and Joseph got married. And that Mary was already showing by the time that she and Joseph got married. And there were rumors that swirled. And in the Gospel of John in particular, John brings out how some of these rumors came back and were thrown at Jesus. We're not a Samaritan. were not illegitimate children, implying that he was. So Jesus was falsely accused repeatedly in all sorts of ways by earthly enemies, but he was also brutally attacked And tempted by Satan. And in Satan's temptations of Jesus, we see that he's also falsely accusing Jesus because he's accusing Jesus of being vulnerable to these kinds of things. Temptations. Think about it. When Satan comes at Jesus with the temptation to turn a stone into bread, he's he's accusing Jesus of being vulnerable enough that he would satisfy his physical appetite rather than obey his heavenly father. Or when he shows them all the kingdoms of the world and all their wealth, and he says, hey, I'm going to give you all of this if you just bow down and worship me, he's accusing Jesus. of being materialistic and of being willing to trade the worship of his father for the kingdoms of the world. Or when he takes Jesus to the pinnacle of the temple and says, Throw yourself down from here Because he'll give his angels charge over you and they'll bear you up lest you strike your foot against the sun. He's accusing Jesus of being so proud that he would take an opportunity to show off and be praised by people. He's accusing Jesus falsely. But one thing we know about Jesus that we can't say about David is that Jesus never gave into any temptation. Temptation ever, even in the slightest way. Satan had no foothold on him. Temptation could have no hold on him because he was absolutely pure And righteous. He could actually say these words in an absolute sense that his feet never wandered from From the path that the Father held out to him. His feet never slipped from perfect righteousness. And that's important to us because we need that. Jesus' sinless obedience is important to us not primarily as an example for us to follow as if we could. People misunderstand the gospel at a fundamental level when they think the primary thing that Jesus did was set an example for us of how we should live so that we could live that same way. If you boil down the gospel to what would Jesus do, then you've missed the point Because the most important part of the gospel is not for you in a moralistic way to ask, what would Jesus do? Although that is important. The most important thing is what did Jesus do? He fulfilled all righteousness for us. We need to be sinless. We need to be able to Come before God with the kind of sinless innocence that is hinted at here in Psalm 17. And we know ourselves and we know the Lord knows us perfectly better than we know ourselves and we know that we can't claim that. We can't come before God and say I am clean and I am perfect, and yet in Christ we can't. Because Christ's perfect righteousness is given to us as a covering, and his blood washes away all of our sin. And so Christ's righteousness, as we believe in him, becomes ours. And we have access to the throne of the God of the universe as a throne of grace, not because we've kept God's word, but because Christ has. perfectly obeyed, and then he's given that to us as a gift, and that is a privilege. That is a privilege. He's our substitute Savior. And it's on the basis of our righteous Redeemer, his righteousness, not ours, that we can plead to God for vindication whenever we are accused or attacked. Which we are constantly being accused and attacked. Let me give you some examples of Satan attacking that you might not even realize that Satan attacking. The voice of shame can often be loud and quite persistent. You call yourself a Christian How can you be a pastor and think those kinds of thoughts? How can you set an example for your children of what it means to be a Christian if you are desiring those things in your life. The voice of shame is loud and persistent because the enemy of our souls uses that as fuel because he wants us to act out of shame and not Not out of love. Because he knows that when we act out of shame, we act in ways that are cowardly, secretive, disobedient. God wants us to act out of love, out of how much we are loved and how much he calls us to love others. Or doubt, another voice that can be loud and persistent, the voice of doubt. Did God really say Oh, come on, you can't take that part of the Bible seriously, can you? What if it was all made That voice of doubt seems like it's coming out of your own head, but it's not entirely. Satan is coming at you because he knows that if he can get you To walk away from Christ or walk away from his church, you will become a soft target. He comes to steal and kill and destroy, and we need The vindication and protection of the Lord every day of our lives, and in Christ we have such vindication and such protection. David's calling on the Lord as judge. He's calling on the Lord as judge to see him and to judge righteously on his behalf. He says to the Lord, hear a just cause, O Lord. Attend to my cry. Give ear to my prayer from lips free from deceit. From your presence let my vindication come, and let your eyes behold the right. There are several things we get from these opening verses of David pleading to the Lord as a righteous judge. First of all, we need to see that God sees everything perfectly. God sees everything perfectly, far better than we do. That includes, by the way, when those voices of shame and doubt are rearing their ugly head and occupying too much mental real estate. And we're struggling, we can cry out to God for vindication from that because he knows better than we do that Satan is the one who's coming at us and trying to lure us away. So we can say, I am your child, I am loved by you, I need help with this. Please deliver me from this attack. God sees everything. This does call us to a second thing, which is that we need to examine our own hearts with honesty and we need to pray with integrity. Earlier we read from Psalm 32 our assurance. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. And David says that his prayer is from lips free of deceit. Now, we need to be aware, we need to examine ourselves, we need to come to God with an openness and an honesty that confesses things. And that isn't trying to manipulate or cover. God sees everything better than we do anyway. We may fool ourselves, but we're never going to fool him. So lay it out. And be honest. The third thing we see is that just because we are righteous in Christ before God does not mean that we are automatically always in the right in every situation in life. We cannot presume upon God and demand that He support an unjust cause. So we we have to pray things like, Lord, I don't see that I have done what I'm being accused of. I don't see That I am acting in the way that I'm being told I'm acting. Show me if I'm wrong. Show me where I need correction. And and vindicate me. We need to pray in ways that are that are honest and not presume that just because we are a Christian We're not we're being persecuted. I I have a a friend, very close friend, um, who used to work in human resources and um Sometimes Christian employees who were very outspoken about their Christian faith would be bad employees. I know that may seem hard to actually conceive of, but That's true. And so sometimes when they would be disciplined by their work because they were bad employees, they would act like they were being persecuted for their Christian faith. It's like, no, you're not being written up because you're Christian. You're being written up because you were late to work six times this month. Like that's got nothing to do with your identity in Christ. And we need to be honest enough to say that sometimes we're not on the right The fourth thing we need to see is that as we seek vindication from the Lord, we must do so with a heart that is humbly determined to walk in God's ways by his grace. seek deliverance and vindication from the Lord and then while intending in our hearts to simply walk away from him and his ways when we're free of the sticky situation. We we can be tempted to do this all the time. Oh Lord if you get me out of this I promise. And then we get out of it and we just forget about the promise and we go on our way. We need to be coming to the Lord with hum with humility and with a desire to want to walk in God's ways and not in our own. The the fifth thing that I think we can pick up from this opening verse is is that we're also warned against making false accusations against others, either with our mouths or in our hearts. While God sees hearts perfectly, we do not. We cannot assign motives to people. It's a violation of the second great commandment to love our neighbor as ourselves, to assign a bad motive to someone's actions. We do not understand. Think about it. Just again, love your neighbor as yourself, as you would have others do unto you, you do unto them. That's what Jesus taught us. So you think about it. If I did this Would I want someone assuming that the reason why I did this was because of this bad motivation? Well, no, I wouldn't want anyone to assume that terrible motivation behind that action. So, what would I want someone to assume? I would want someone to assume the best possible motivation behind my action. So that's what I need to do. Because I'm commanded by Jesus to love my neighbor as myself. We need to do that, like, all the time. And it's hard because, hey, we live, have you ever noticed how incredibly judgmental our culture has become in recent years? Ever notice that tolerance is no longer the watchword of the day? This whole thing. Tolerance is a transition strategy. It's it's what you embrace when you don't yet have the votes. But once you have the votes, it's toler tolerance is over and then you start enforcing it. That's basically what's happened in our culture. There's not a lot of tolerance anymore. There's just this intolerant judgmentalism And a self-righteousness it beats all. And there's no so if you say something a little wrong or you say something not quite the right way, people just Pounce on it. Now, we can all see it. Listen to me. We can all see it so clearly when it's being done to us. Then thirty seconds later, we're being lured into doing it about others. The final thing that I want us to see, I think the Lord wants us to see from these opening verses is that because we are all members of the body of Christ and we are brothers and sisters. With all believers all around the world. Psalm 17 is also a call for us to pray for our persecuted brothers and sisters who suffer false accusations and violent opposition. I've started playing this silly game. I like to play these quick little games. I don't know why. Little um I play Wordle and other games, but a new a newer one I've started playing is global. It's like geography. guessing a country in the world and you just it gives you warmer or cooler, hotter or colder. You play it, Jackson? Geogesser? Geo guesser? It's similar to that. But it's called global. It's spelled like Wordle with an L E on the end. Anyway, so uh G-L-O-B-L E Global. So it's fun because you're trying to guess the country, and it's usually some obscure country. But It's a great little tiny exercise, if you're ever doing something like that, or you're ever watching the news, or you're ever hearing about something going on in the world, a little tiny thing that we can do that would make a big difference is stop and pray for the believers who are in that country. You won't take it even one step further, you can go online to like the Joshua Project and you can look up that country and see if there are persecuted Christians living there and what the state of Christianity is. in that country. You could do that if you're hearing about a country on the news for the first time, you're like, oh, there's something going on in this country I've never heard of. Let me let me let me just stop and pray. I guarantee you if there's a country in the world, a political country in the world, do you have brothers and sisters in Christ who are in that country? They may be a very persecuted minority. Even in North Korea, we have brothers and sisters in Christ in North Korea. Many of them are in prison But we need to be praying for them. Because they are our brothers and sisters. But you know what? David is looking for more from God than just vindication. David is calling upon God as more than just judge. The heart of Psalm 17 is verses 7 through 9. And it contains probably my favorite title for God in the Psalms. Verses seven through nine. The heart of the psalm. Remember I were trying to teach you look at the opening verse and the closing verse and then look at the middle. Verse 8 is the middle of the This Psalm. So verses seven through nine is the heart of it. Wondrously show your steadfast love, O Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at you. your right hand. Keep me as the apple of your eye. Hide me in the shadow of your wings from the wicked who do me violence, from deadly enemies who surround me David wants vindication from the Lord, but he wants something so much more than that. He wants the Lord Himself. He wants the Lord to wondrously show his steadfast love for him. The steadfast love of the Lord, that Hesed love of the Lord that we've talked about so often in the Psalms, because it appears in almost every single Psalm. Psalm this word. This is the heart of God for His people, His covenantal, committed, and powerful love for His own, and it is the heart behind all of His actions. David doesn't just want God to act to vindicate him. He wants God's action to vindicate him to be a wondrous or miraculous display of God's hasten. Said for him, of God's steadfast love, committed, covenantal, loyal love. Because if you love someone, that's what you want. You don't want someone to do something for you out of obligation or because it's their job, right? I bring coffee to Beth in the morning, and I put it on her bedside table. And I do it because I love her. It's also my job, but But I do it because I love her. And and if I were just to if I were just to be robotic about it, you're a coffee ma'am, doing my duty, you know, pretty soon she'd be like, alright, whatever. Yeah. She wants me to act in ways that she and and and the same thing, you know. I don't want her to, you know, come into the kitchen and give me a hug mechanically and uh and say, Good morning, husband, I shall now do my wifely embrace and now I will go on with my you know, it's like If you love someone, you want their actions toward you to be a demonstration of that love. David is a man after God's own heart. He wants the Lord more than he wants the Lord's benefit. Remember Psalm 16 yesterday, I have no good last week. I have no good apart from you. That's the attitude of I have no good apart from you. The Lord. And then he uses this wonderful title Wondrously show your steadfast love, O Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries. at your right hand. That's how he addresses God. God is the Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at God's hand God's right hand is the Lord Jesus Christ. He sits at God's right hand on the right hand of the Majesty on high. He's the way that God acts in saving power in the world. The Lord is the Savior. Of those who seek refuge from their adversaries, from Satan, from sin, from the world, from death, from hell. We seek refuge from our adversaries at his right hand in Jesus Christ, and he is our refuge. He is the Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at his right hand. Jesus promised us something. And this is a precious promise. Jesus promised us. But of those who come to him, he will not turn away. And of those whom the Father gives him, he will lose none But he will raise us up on the last day. If we come to him, he will not turn us away. But he will keep us, he will not lose us, and he will raise us up on the last day. That is a sure refuge. If we're seeking refuge from our adversaries at the right hand of the Lord, the only way for our adversaries to get to us is for them to be more powerful than the right hand of the Lord. Ain't no way. Ain't gonna happen. And to drive this home, the very heart of the heart of Psalm 17 is verse 8, this prayer. Keep me as the apple of your eye. Hide me in the shadow of your wings. The Lord gives us the These two images in this prayer of how he keeps us, how precious we are to him. He keeps us as the apple of his eye, that is the pupil, the very center of his eye. At the very center of the psalm is that phrase, keep me as the apple of your eye. He guards us with as much determination as we protect our eyes from harm. And he hides us. The second picture is he hides us in the shadow of his wings. Our eyes are tender. and precious. They are vulnerable and they are vital. And so we have all sorts of built-in things that we can do to protect our eyes. We can we can close our eyelids and we have eyelashes and eyebrows even to keep our eyes protected. But if you're smart and you're going to be working with things that are dangerous, you put on eye protection. There's an instinct. If something's coming at you, you flinch because you're guarding your eyes. They're the most important thing. Jesus Keeps you as the apple of his eye. You are you're vulnerable. You are weak. Your eyes aren't going to win any strength contests. But But you're precious to him. And he protects you. He keeps you in the shadow of his wing. A mother bird gathers her chicks under his wing, under her wings for warmth. and shadow and protection, and she will fight any who try to take her babies from beneath her. If you're ever out in a national park The one thing you know that you should never do is to come between a mama bear and her cubs. Right? If you see a cub while you are out in a national park or a state park or whatever, what do you do? You walk away as quickly as you can. You don't go up to the cub and think that it's cute and try to get a picture with it, because Mama Bear might see you messing with the cub and you will not you will not enjoy the rest of your day. We are God's children. We are precious to Him. He guards us. That's helpful to know when we're under attack. I gave you a couple of ways that Satan attacks, but there are more. He's a master of deception and disguise. Almost always he's attacking us. One way he does so, in addition to shame and doubt, is temptation. Temptation. You know that when Satan tempts us with sin, he's not offering us something good and pleasant? Because he wants us to have fun and he wants to see us enjoy it. There's always a hook. There's always a net. It's always bait for a trap. Or when he comes at us with doubt, it's not because he's telling us the truth, because he wants to set us free. When he offers us all the kingdoms of the world and all their wealth in the form of earthly success and political power, he's not doing so because he wants to empower us so that we can finally get the upper hand. He's plotting our destruction. When he sows seeds of bitterness and division in our marriage, it's not because he's wanting to vindicate us. But destroy us and poison the legacy of godliness we pass down to our children. And one of the greatest lies that Satan sows in marriages. is to get you to think that your spouse is the problem. The woman that you put here with me That's what happens when we fall for Satan's trap. We become embittered against the one that we're supposed to love most. That's Satan at work. We need the Lord to be our protection. We need the Lord not only to be our protection, not only to show us his wondrous love, but we also need him to be our treasure. Look with me at the close of Psalm 17. Arise, O Lord, confront him, subdue him, deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword, from men by your hand, O Lord, from men of the world. whose portion is in this life. You fill their womb with treasure. They are satisfied with children. And they leave their abundance to their infants, as for me, I shall behold your faith your face in righteousness. When I awake, I shall be satisfied with your likeness. There are only two kinds of people in this world. The end of the day, bottom line, there's only two kinds of people in this world. And you are one or you are the other. And they're both named specifically here in Psalm 17. One, there are those who seek refuge from their adversaries at the Lord's right hand. And two, there are those whose portion is in this life That's it. These are only two kind of people in the world. You either seek refuge from your adversaries at the Lord's right hand or your portion is in this life. If you belong to the first category and you have sought refuge from your adversaries at the Lord's right hand, that means you are not one whose portion is in this life. And that's a good thing. Because anyone who has their portion in this life, no matter how blessed they are, and David's describing some blessed people here. And even blessed by God, you fill their womb with treasure. They are satisfied with children, and they leave their abundance to their infants. This that's a picture of a God-blessed life. But it's God blessed with temporal blessings only. Children? A wealth so much so that you can leave an inheritance to your children? But that's it? It's not enough. And if such things draw our hearts away from God, then it's it's worse than not enough. It's a snare. How much better the as for me. You see, those who seek refuge from their adversaries at the Lord's right hand, they will say with David in the closing verse, As for me, I shall behold your face in righteousness. When I awake, I shall be satisfied with your likeness. There's been studies done recently about the importance of emotional intelligence. You probably have heard of some of these. They're not super recent, but emotional intelligence is an emotional stability that allows you to exercise self-control, delayed gratification So one way they did these studies is they got a bunch of kids and they offered them a marshmallow. But they told them, you can eat this marshmallow now, or you can wait and not eat this marshmallow, and when I come back I'll give you two And then the researcher leaves the room for some period of time. And the kid looks at the marshmallow and thinks, Do I take this one now? Do I trust this person? Are is he really going to get And you know what they found? The kids who ate the one marshmallow and didn't wait to get two had much worse outcomes in life. The kids who waited until the researcher came back and gave them two. Not only did they get two marshmallows, but as they tracked them long term, they had much better outcomes in life. It turns out that emotional intelligence is a more important indicator of success in this life than IQ or extraordinary skill. But you know there's something more important than emotional intelligence. I'll call it spiritual intelligence. The ultimate delayed gratification. Because life is more than the accumulation of marshmallows. Jesus was offered all the kingdoms of the world and all their wealth, and he knew it was a bad idea Not only could he never worship a created thing like Satan instead of his father, but he also knew that all the riches of this world could never even begin to compare with the joy and the satisfaction. Of pleasing his father, of fulfilling the work that the father had given him to do. He valued his father's approval more than earthly riches And that is spiritual intelligence. When we're tempted by the temporary things of this world, we need to remember, when we get to heaven And we see the Lord. And we hear him say to us, Well done, good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of your master. And we are in the presence of God Almighty forever. We dwell in the house of the Lord forever. We are satisfied with his likeness. We will not be thinking. I wish I'd taken an extra week at Disney World. No. So when we're tempted by the passing pleasures of sin, I listed these in your bulletin because I want you to have these, we need to remember key lessons from this psalm Whenever we're tempted with shame, doubt, despair, covetousness First, in Christ, God sees you as sinlessly righteous. That's the truth. That's the answer to the voice of shame. Your shame is covered completely. In Christ, God sees you as sinlessly righteous. The second, when you feel alone or lonely, God hears you when you cry. Third, you are the apple of God's eye. Fourth, God shelters you under his wing. And fifth, you will behold his face. in righteousness. Those five things are the anchor for a life That is lived well. And I pray that it would be what anchors all of us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you've given us your Son, Jesus, who sits at your right hand, ever-living, to make intercession for all those who have sought refuge from their adversaries in Christ You've given us Jesus, the captain of our salvation, our great high priest, the prophet who speaks the truth to us, our king who rules over us and defends us from all of our enemies. You keep us in Christ as the apple of your eye. You keep us in Christ under the shadow of your wing. Lord, help us to believe that and to remember that. At 3 o'clock in the morning when we can't sleep because we're overwhelmed with anxiety, thinking that we have to figure it all out. Or when we feel alone, like nobody truly knows the real us. And if they did, they probably wouldn't like us very much. Or when we're facing covetousness because the neighbors have gotten a New car or put an addition on their house, and we're grumbling because we can barely pay our bills every month. Anchor us to what matters. Anchor us to the truth. May we always seek refuge from our adversaries at your right hand, and may you continue Continue to be our faithful Savior until that day when we are satisfied. Our souls are deeply and eternally satisfied with your likeness. We pray this all in Jesus' name and for his glory. Amen