Good morning and welcome to Journey Through Acts. This is a devotional series through the book of Acts in which we are re-presenting Presenting devotional studies that were done in Acts as part of our three-year journey through the Bible that we did as a church from 2022 to 2024. Let's turn our attention now to God's Word. Good morning, brothers and sisters. It's day four hundred and fifty-seven of our daily walk through the word with Jesus, one chapter per day. I'm Michael Talercio, pastoral intern. of Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I'm glad you could join us today as we get back into the book of Acts this morning. Uh we we were in Acts chapter six almost a week ago. Pastor Jason took us through that chapter. It was a short chapter, but It introduced to us uh Stephen, uh the man uh who was the first one named in chapter six out of the deacons that were appointed by the elders. He began to experience some slander from those who were in positions of power in uh in Jerusalem at the time, and uh he was Starting to be persecuted in the beginning of chapter or in the middle of chapter six, uh the beginning of the account of him. And now in chapter seven, which we're picking up in today We're reading a speech by him, and it's a long speech. It is actually the longest quotation, or at least paraphrase, in the New Testament. It's by this man, Stephen. who only appears in these two chapters in Acts. So it's it's an interesting chapter. We'll hopefully highlight just a couple of things after we we read it. Hopefully that'll be helpful and hopefully the Lord will help us to be succinct in our look at his large speech today. Let's ask for God's help as we come to the Word now. Father, thank you that you have given us this servant, that you have spoken your word through, you have spoken it to us. As we read this chapter, we're hearing from you, Lord, and we thank you, Lord, that you have gifted this man. with an understanding of the Old Testament scriptures and how you even enabled him to understand certain features uh from your word from the Old Testament. uh even specific details that that weren't expressly stated in the Old Testament. Thank you, Lord, that you so inspired him. And we pray you'd help us to see what the significance of this speech that he gives in today's passage is, Lord, and how it applies to us, how it might help us to live in uh ways that please you, Lord, as uh s servants of your King, uh, who he points us to. Who Stephen points us to in today's passage, to the King Jesus. We pray for his glory that we would receive this word now. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, we're looking at Acts chapter 7. And the high priest said, Are these things so? And Stephen said, Brothers and fathers, hear me. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran, and said to him, Go out from your land and from your kindred, and go into the land that I will show you. Then he went out from the land of the Chaldeans and lived in Haran. And after his father died, God removed him from there into this land in which you are now living. Yet he gave him no inheritance in it, not even a foot's length. but promised to give it to him as a possession and to his offspring after him, though he had no child. And God spoke to this effect, that his offspring would be sojourners, in a land belonging to others who would enslave them and afflict them four hundred years. But I will judge the nation that they serve, said God, and after that they shall come out and worship me in this place. And he gave him the covenant of circumcision. And so Abraham became the father of Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day. And Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob of the twelve patriarchs. And the patriarchs, jealous of Joseph's, sold him into Egypt. But God was with him and rescued him out of all his afflictions and gave him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king of Egypt, who made him ruler over Egypt and over all his household. Now there came a famine throughout all Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction, and our fathers could find no food. But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers on their first visit, and on the second visit, Joseph made himself known to his brothers And Joseph's family became known to Pharaoh. And Joseph sent and summoned Jacob, his father, and all his kindred, seventy-five persons in all. And Jacob went down into Egypt, and he died, he and our fathers. And they were carried back to Shechem and laid in the tomb that Abraham had bought for a sum of silver from the sons of Hamer and Shechem. But as the time of the promise drew near, which God had granted to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph. He dealt shrewdly with our race and forced our fathers to expose their infants so that they would not be kept alive. At this time Moses was born, and he was beautiful in God's sight, and he was brought up for three months in his father's house. And when he was exposed, Pharaoh's daughter adopted him and brought him up as her own son And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in his words and deeds. When he was forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel And seeing one of them being wronged, he defended the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian. He supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not understand And on the following day he appeared to them as they were quarreling and tried to reconcile them, saying, Men, you are brothers. Why do you wrong each other? But the man who was wronging his neighbor thrust him aside, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge over us? Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday? At this retort, Moses fled and became an exile in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons. Now when forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai in a flame of fire in a bush. When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight, and as he drew near to look, there came the voice of the Lord, I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob. And Moses trembled and did not dare to look. Then the Lord said to him, Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground. I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their groaning, and I have come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send you to Egypt. This Moses, whom they rejected, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge? This man God sent as both ruler and redeemer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. This man led them out, performing wonders and signs in Egypt, and at the Red Sea and in the wilderness for forty years This is the Moses who said to the Israelites, God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. This is the one who is in the congregation in the wilderness with the angel who spoke to him at Mount Sinai and with our fathers. He received living oracles to give to us. Our fathers refused to obey him, but thrust him aside and in their hearts They turned to Egypt, saying to Aaron, Make for us gods who will go before us. As for this Moses who led us out from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him And they made a calf in those days and offered a sacrifice to the idol and were rejoicing in the works of their hands But God turned away and gave them over to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the book of the prophets. Did you bring to me slain beasts and sacrifices during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel You took of the tent of Moloch and the star of your god Rephan, the images that you made to worship, and I will send you into exile beyond Babylon Our fathers had the tent of witness in the wilderness, just as he who spoke to Moses directed him to make it, according to the pattern that he had seen Our fathers in turn brought it in with Joshua when they dispossessed the nations that God drove out before our fathers. So it was until the days of David, who found favor in the sight of God. and asked to find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob. But it was Solomon who built a house for him. Yet the Most High does not dwell in houses made by hands, as the prophet says, Heaven is my throne and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me, says the Lord, or what is the place of my rest? Did not my hand make all these things? You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in hardened ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit As your fathers did, so do you. Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the righteous one whom you have now betrayed and murdered, you who received the law as delivered by angels and did not keep it Now when they heard these things, they were enraged, and they ground their teeth at him. But he, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God And Jesus standing at the right hand of God. And he said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at him. Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul. And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. And falling to his knees, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. It's a long passage of scripture and a lot of great detail given to us by Stephen from Israel's history, beginning with Abraham, the man whom God called while he was still living in Eura of the Chaldeans. to whom God promised to make a nation for himself. And he continues all the way on down to Solomon and then beyond Solomon, he points us directly to the Lord Jesus. And in Stephen's speech, what we're getting is a number of significant things, all wrapped up in this chapter. We learn at least these three things. For time's sake, we'll just look at three. The first we learn about is what Pastor Jason was kind of beginning to explain in the most recent devotional on Acts. uh when when he mentioned that Stephen is responding to threats, to accusations, to slander really, to persecution, he's responding in a respectable, God-honoring way. And we learn from the way that Stephen responds to persecution, to these threats by these priests and these higher-ups in Israel, we learn how to handle mistreatment. or to handle it respectfully and with truth. Stephen uses the word of God to refute the the false accusations that are brought against him in chapter 6. And we note at the toward the end here, in verse 51, Stephen doesn't hold back from speaking the truth to these men who are slandering him. Even goes so far as to say, you stiff-necked people uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. Now he does that after he has just given f about fifty verses of witness to how the fathers of these men who are slandering him have done likewise. And that kind of leads us into our second point, even as Stephen is giving us a good example for how we can respond when we are mistreated um not opening our mouths to defend ourselves as much as to defend God's honor and and the truth of his word. Even as Stephen models that for us His speech here also serves as a transition point in the book of Acts. Because if you remember what in chapter 6 these priests and these uh teachers of the law, what they're accusing Stephen of is Verse 13 of chapter 6, never ceasing to speak words against this holy place and the law. So, even though it's completely false, what these men are accusing Stephen of is slandering, speaking ill of Jerusalem, the temple specifically, and the law of God. They're accusing Stephen of doing that. Even though Stephen has simply been uplifting Jesus as the fulfillment of these things, the fulfillment of the law, the fulfillment of the temple. They have slandered Stephen and they have said that He has been saying that in verse 14, Jesus of Nazareth would destroy this place and change the customs that Moses delivered to the people. Now, in a way They're right and in a way they're they're completely wrong. And that's why Stephen goes to great lengths to show that the scriptures from the beginning have been making the point, making the case that God had given promises to a man named Abram and allowed Abram to be a sojourner, a wanderer. in a land th that wasn't his own. God had promised to give the land to Abraham, uh this particular place, Canaan. But Abram was never really received that land during his lifetime. He was promised descendants, but he died with only one child through his wife Sarah, only one legitimate offspring. And so uh the the way that Stephen frames this history is he shows that whereas these priests are accusing Stephen of saying that he is bad-mouthing the the holy place, Jerusalem, the temple, and the law of God, Stephen is showing that the scriptures have always made the case that We ought to hold our heritage loosely, is what he's saying to his people. We ought to hold our heritage loosely. Moses was not not only was Abraham kind of did Abraham kind of die a a sojourner, a foreigner in this land that would eventually be belong to his descendants, but Moses was raised by Egyptians. Uh he he shouldn't hold too too tightly to his heritage as an Israelite. In fact, when he tried to do that, as Stephen cites, uh he killed an Egyptian and then he uh experienced difficulty because he was trying to save uh he was holding too tightly onto his heritage rather than to understand that God was doing something over the course of these men's lives. to point forward to something. And even David, he mentions, David wanted to build a temple for the Lord, but the Lord had a different plan. It would be Solomon who would build the temple. And really what What Stephen's speech is getting at is that the accusation that these men are making against him Is actually the very thing that they're doing. They are the ones who are setting up false witness against Stephen. They're slandering God's law. They're breaking the ninth commandment. They've set up witnesses. It says in chapter 6, verse 11, they secretly instigated men in order to try to uh indict Stephen. They're they are bearing false witness against their neighbor, against their brother. And and they are holding too tightly to the temple, uh, but the but the temple that's not really the temple Because they've rejected Jesus, who is the true presence of God, God with us. He is God's presence with his people So they've rejected the holy place who is Jesus, and they've rejected the law of God embodied in Jesus because they've rejected Jesus. And in the process, they're slandering God's witnesses. God's witness Stephen in pr in particular. And that's why we have these themes brought out over and over again by Stephen. Heaven is my throne, verse forty-nine. The earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me, says the Lord? God would be the one who would build his house. He would build it through his servant Jesus. He would build it on top of Jesus with the apostles, with the servants of the Lord like Stephen. May we not reject the work that God has always been doing because we have an understanding of what his word is about that's different than what it really is. May God protect us from that. May He use Stephen to continue to instruct us of that. The turning point here happens because now we're seeing that the temple is not the most important place. uh for God's people to be about. It's it's actually the person of Jesus. And that's why in in chapter one of Acts, the key verse that that we're seeing unpacked throughout the book It was found in verse 8, where Jesus says to his apostles, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses. And Jerusalem and beyond in Jerusalem and in Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. So the importance of the temple is being re uh re Cast. It's being cast in a new light. The temple is Jesus bringing his gospel through his church to the ends of the earth. And that's another thing that we learned from Stephen's speech here. Lastly, I hope that the conclusion of Stephen's speech will be an encouragement for you, that it will teach you to do what Stephen does by looking to Jesus. Because Stephen looks to Jesus literally in today's passage. And he sees what Jesus does. Jesus confirms the words of Stephen by welcoming him, by inviting him. into his heavenly uh dwelling place, to his presence. And that is instructive for us. Because for all of God's people who trust in his word, who trust that Jesus is the fulfillment of his word, who hold to Jesus more than tradition, to all of those, God will receive them into his presence. into the arms of Jesus. And so, brothers and sisters, be refreshed by not only Stephen's speech, but Stephen's actions in today's passage. Because really Jesus is at the forefront of all of it. Stephen is just pointing us to Jesus in the word and in his actions. And that's why we get at the very end of the passage as they're stoning Stephen. He's essentially crying out the same things that Jesus did on the cross. Lord, receive my spirit. And Lord, do not hold this sin against them. Those are the things that Jesus said. when he was dying on behalf of his people. And Stephen is pointing us to his Lord and ours in his speech and in his death. Let's ask that the Lord would really just cement these truths in and refresh us throughout our day, throughout our weeks ahead uh as we go with Acts chapter seven. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you've given us uh this picture of uh godliness uh but also uh if a a real uh real life example of uh what it looks like for one of your servants to treasure Christ, to treasure your son Jesus more than life itself. We pray that we would do likewise as we've been refreshed by This passage of scripture pointing back to the Old Testament writings, uh showing that Jesus is the fulfillment of those, and also just in in Stephen's uh testimony to Jesus' uh very person in his death and in his resurrection and in the salvation of his people, holding us secure to the very end. We pray we would be refreshed by being able to have that uh reception one day as your people. into the heavenly dwellings. And we pray that it would motivate us to love people in the way that Stephen loved these men in today's passage by speaking truth to them. uh even as they killed him for it. May we may we go in that same vein of servant heartedness and love for you and people by holding fast to your word, the word Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, brothers and sisters, I hope you'll have a blessed day, having been hopefully refreshed in Acts chapter 7 on this. this time in God's word and that you will uh just enjoy him and enjoy the opportunity to share his word with people today. God bless you