Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 17th week together as we're going through the Gospels together here. Five days a week. Day one brings us to the second half of Mark 8. We're going to be looking at Mark 8. 22 to 9. 1, and we're going to be asking, why must we take up a cross? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Please write it on our hearts by the power of your Holy Spirit and to the glory of your name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Mark 8. 22 to 9. 1. And they came to Bethesda, or Beth Seda, and some people brought to him a blind man. and begged him to touch him. And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of the village. And when he had spit on his eyes and laid his hands on him, he asked him, Do you see anything? And he looked up and said, I see people, but they look like trees walking. Then Jesus laid his hands on his eyes again. And he opened his eyes, and his sight was restored, and he saw everything clearly. And he said to him, he sent him to his home, saying, Do not even enter the village. And Jesus went on with his disciples to the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way he asked his disciples, Who do people say that I am? And they told him, John the Baptist, and others say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. And he said, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered him, You are the Christ. And he strictly charged them to tell no one about him. And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. And he said this plainly And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. But turning and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said, Get behind me, Satan, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man. And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? For what can a man give in return for his soul? For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his father with the holy angels. And he said to them, Truly I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God, after it has come. with power. Jesus makes it very clear here in Mark 8, 33 to 38, that the only way of following him is the way of the cross. Now today we think of taking up our cross in these metaphorical terms, and it can seem very abstract. and removed from the harsher realities of life. But in Jesus' day, the cross was a very public, visible, and well-known instrument of brutal execution. More importantly, in just a little while, Jesus himself would take up a very real cross and die on it for his people. This was no clever metaphor for him. In response to Peter's clear confession, Jesus began clearly telling his disciples God's plan for their redemption through his death. Peter responded to this news by taking Jesus aside and trying to correct his thinking, but Jesus would have none of it. The only voice that would seek to offer Jesus a kingdom without a cross was the devil himself. So Jesus said, get behind me, Satan Today, some preachers and television Christians preach a gospel without suffering. These are charlatans. These are health and wealth prosperity preachers. And we need to speak the words of Jesus. Get behind us, Satan. This slippery deception of false teachers is designed to keep the church from her real calling. We must take up our cross and follow Jesus. But why? We can deduce several reasons from this passage and from the rest of Scripture. First, we must suffer because of sin, sin in our own hearts and lives and in the world. The sin in our hearts means that we must reject our selfish desires, including our desires for a comfortable and easy life. The sin in the world means that the world will always excuse and persecute at some level those who are seeking to honor God with their lives. Secondly, we suffer because we are followers of Jesus and he suffered. Jesus suffered in obedience to his heavenly father. He entrusted himself to the hands of his father, and he was willing to do his will whatever the cost. Likewise, if we follow him, we will trust God no matter what. Even when that truly costs us dearly in this world. And third, we suffer because doing so overcomes the devil's schemes Submitting ourselves to God and resisting Satan's temptations to sin and complacency leads us to a place where we find freedom and peace. Is it worth it? Of course it is. Remember Jesus' words. For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? For what can a man give in return for his soul? If we understand the real value of the world, our souls, and the kingdom of God, we can respond in only one way. We take up the cross and we follow Jesus no matter the cost. Psalm 82 is our psalm to pray for today. It's the Psalm of Asaph. God has taken his place in the divine council. In the midst of the gods he holds judgment. How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked Give justice to the weak and the fatherless. Maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute. Rescue the weak and the needy. Deliver them from the hand of the wicked They have neither knowledge nor understanding. They walk about in darkness. All the foundations of the earth are shaken. I said, You are gods, sons of the Most High, all of you. Nevertheless, like men, you shall die, and fall like any prince. Arise, O God, judge the earth, for you shall inherit all the nations. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, Psalm 82 tells us that though the world hates you and your people, you sit in judgment as the supreme judge of all heaven and earth. And you will vindicate your people. So that if we take up our cross and follow Jesus, we will gain the kingdom and gain eternal life in the end. And you can guarantee that because you are Almighty Most holy judge and redeemer. Help us to trust you and follow you, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope that was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.