Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 22nd week together in the Gospels, and we are beginning Luke chapter 4. Today, we're actually not going to read and pray a psalm at the end. We're just going to be in Luke 4, verses 1 to 30. And we're asking, how did Jesus defeat Satan's temptations? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Please write your word on our hearts, and please show us more of Jesus that we might love him. And follow him more closely. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Luke 4, 1-30. And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan. and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness for forty days, being tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days, and when they were ended he was hungry. The devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread. And Jesus answered him, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone. And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time, and said to him, To you I will give all this authority and their glory. for it has been delivered to me, and I give it to whom I will. If you then will worship me, it will all be yours And Jesus answered him, It is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. And he took him to Jerusalem and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down from here, for it is written, He will command His angels concerning you to guard you, and on their hands they will bear you up lest you strike your foot against the stone. And Jesus answered him, It is said you shall not put the Lord your God to the test. And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and a report about him went out through all the surrounding country, and he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all. And he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up, and as was his custom he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And he rolled up the scroll, and gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. And all spoke well of him and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth, and they said, Is not this Joseph's son? And he said to them, Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb, physician, heal yourself. What we heard you did at Capernaum, do here in your hometown as well. And he said, Truly, truly, I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his home town. But in truth I tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah When the heavens were shut up three years and six months, and a great famine came over all the land, and Elijah was sent to none of them. But only to Zarephath in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow. And there were many lepers in Israel at the time of Elisha, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman, the Syrian And when they heard these things, all in the synagogue were filled with wrath, and they rose up and drove him out of the town, and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their town was built, so that they could throw him down the cliff, but passing through their midst. He went away. Well, both Matthew 4 and Luke 4 record Jesus' temptation in the wilderness Jesus fasted for 40 days, and back when we were in Matthew 4, I covered Matthew's account of Jesus' temptation, focusing on why Jesus had to be tempted, and then briefly on how he overcame. Today I'd like to focus more attention on how Satan tempted Jesus and how Jesus was able to defeat the devil for us. Satan came at Jesus when he was alone. hungry and weak. These are the times that Satan often chooses for temptation. When we are with others, especially when we are with other Christians, and when we are well fed and well rested, strong and healthy. Temptation is easier to resist and seems less compelling. But Satan knows that when he can get us alone And when we are tired, hungry, lonely, weak, or angry, we are more prone to give in to his temptations. Satan tempted Jesus in the same three common ways. He attacks all of us. With the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. 1 John 2, 15 and 16 tell us that. When Satan tempted Jesus to turn the stone into bread, he was tempting him to meet his own physical appetite apart from God's will. When he showed him the kingdoms of the world, this was a lust of the eyes materialism. And finally, when Satan took Jesus to the pinnacle of the temple and tempted him to throw himself down, he was tempting Jesus to show off and demonstrate to everyone clearly who he was. This was a pride of life temptation. Notice also that all three temptations were shortcut temptations In the right time, God the Father would faithfully provide Jesus with food, with the nations, and with glory. But Satan wanted Jesus to feed himself. Grasp for the kingdom without suffering and enter into glory without the cross. Satan is the master of the promised shortcut. And we need to beware his voice when we are tempted to cut corners. So how did Jesus defeat Satan? Well, first of all, Jesus was full of the Holy Spirit. Jesus was anointed with the Holy Spirit at his baptism. Though he was and is fully God, he was also fully and authentically human, and in his humanity he was tested and tempted in our place as our Messiah. And so Jesus needed the Holy Spirit to fill him, to empower him, so he could stand against the temptations of the devil. Secondly, Jesus defeated Satan with the Word of God. The Word of God is given to us as the sword of the Spirit, wielded in battle to defeat the enemy of our souls. Jesus had obviously memorized the book of Deuteronomy. He was ready to properly and effectively counter Satan's lies, even Satan's manipulation of scripture, with the sharp powerful truth of the Bible. But notice that even when Jesus had won his victory, Satan departed from him until an opportune time Satan would come back with force when Jesus was at his weakest point in the Garden of Gethsemane on the night he was betrayed. Satan is a restless and deadly enemy. leaving us alone only to come back at an opportune time. If we are to resist him, we need the power of the Holy Spirit. the truth of God's Word, and the intercession of our great high priest. Hebrews 4 tells us, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. But one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence Draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Let's pray. O Lord Jesus, you are our great high priest. We come to you now as weak and wayward sinners. When we face temptation, we need the Word of God in our hearts and on our lips. We need your Holy Spirit filling us and empowering us, and we need you praying for us that we will not fail. Keep us strong. Keep us faithful. If we sin, forgive us. If we stray, correct us. If we are weak, strengthen us. We need you. Every moment of our lives as we face temptation, may we do so ever and only in the strength that you provide. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was an encouragement, a blessing to you. Tomorrow we'll be continuing on in Luke 4. Have a blessed day in the Lord.