Good morning everyone, and we're in Psalm 100 to be reminded of who God is and of The call to worship him and to give thanks to him, to glorify his name is just a great opportunity for us to be refreshed and renewed by the Word of God. I'm so glad that you take this time so that we can gather together. It's a a great encouragement and blessing to me. Uh hope it is to you too. I know God's Word never returns void, so He always He always works what he intends in our hearts and lives whenever we attend to his word. The seed of the word finds the soil of our hearts, and good things happen. By his grace. Alright, let's get into Psalm 100. Let's pray first and then we'll uh look at this wonderful Psalm together. Father in heaven, we thank you so much for your faithfulness to us. We thank you for your steadfast and unfailing love to us. Father, we pray that you would write your word on our hearts. We pray that you would do your work in our hearts. We pray, Father, that you would That you would be glorified in our lives as we learn to worship you and to be thankful and to get the right perspective on who you are and who we are. And to be filled with joy and gratitude for that. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Psalm 100. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come into his presence with singing. Know that the Lord, He is God. It is He who made us, and we are His. We are His people, and the sheep of His pasture. Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. Give thanks to him. Bless his name. For the Lord is good. His steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations. Amen. That's Psalm 100. Not a very long psalm, but it is direct and clear, and it packs a punch. We are to make a joyful noise. We saw this earlier in this collection of Psalms about worship here in the book 4 of the Psalter. We are to make a joyful noise. And uh that means from our hearts To the Lord with joy. And notice the universality of this call. It is not just for Israel. It is not just for a nation in a place. It is a call to all the earth. All the earth should come to the Lord with joyful singing and praises. Serve the Lord with gladness. Now, we're going to, at the end of our time together this morning, we're going to sing All People That On Earth Do Dwell, which is you know, a very old and familiar arrangement of Psalm 100 uh in English. I found a great uh version of that to share and to sing together this morning. But one of the little things I notice about that, that's become a little pet peeve of mine, is that somewhere along the way The original got modified by one word, and it says, him serve with fear, his praise forth tell. And the word in Psalm 100 is gladness or joy. And the original rendition of that was joy. Him serve with joy, his praise forethill. Somewhere along the way, someone changed it from joy to fear. Now clearly we should serve the Lord with fear. That's not That's absolutely true. But as a rendition of Psalm 100, that's not what the verse says. The verse says, him serve with joy, his praise forthtell So come into his presence with thanksgiving. We are, with singing, sorry, we are to be joyful, we are to be glad. Because of who God is. And uh when we serve Him in worship, when we serve Him in the church, it should be with gladness, with joy. We should be happy to do it. It reminds me of um Paul's admonition that God loves a cheerful giver. God loves someone who gives with cheerfulness, with joy, with with gladness, not with a sense of begrudging duty. Oh I need to go to church. Oh I need to worship. Oh I need to give money in the offering. Oh I need to help set up. Oh I need we should just be excited that God has loved us and made us his own and called us to himself and has given us a place of service in his kingdom, and that should be a joyful thing. Know that the Lord, He is God. So we're getting now into sort of why we should worship, and some of these reasons are the same as what we would see in Psalm 95 and 96. But know that the Lord He is God. So the the number one reason why we worship God is because He's God. Right? The nature of who He is calls for worship. He is God. The Lord Yahweh is God. It is He who made us, and we are His. He's our maker. He's our sustainer. We belong to Him. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Now this is telling us, verse 3, the second line is telling us that we are his by creation, and the third line is telling us that we are his by redemption. So he is God, and we belong to him both by creation and by redemption. He's the one who's made us, and he is the one who has made us his own by calling us to be his own. And so we enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise. We give thanks to him And bless his name. This is a call for gathered worship. And again, I'm going to say it. It's Friday morning, Sunday's coming in two days. We need to be gathered together to worship God. We need to get out and gather together to sing the praises of God, to give thanks to him, and to bless his name. And that's that is the clear and repeated call of Scripture for God's people to gather together to worship. So we enter his gates with Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving is mentioned twice in verse 4. Thanksgiving is so important. for us as believers because it it's just it's just a reminder to us of the fact that we have nothing in and of ourselves. We wouldn't even be alive in and of ourselves. We didn't make ourselves, we didn't We don't keep ourselves, right? Every breath that we breathe, every heartbeat, every thought we're able to think, every bit of physical activity we're able to engage in. Every relationship we enjoy, every gift, everything comes from God. Everything. And so we need to give thanks to Him. It's that reminder that, Lord. I am nothing in and of myself. I have nothing in and of myself. All things are from you, and so I give thanks to you for it all. And so when we're in that position, it humbles us. But it also encourages us. It humbles us from our natural sense of pride to say, I did this, this is my achievement, right? It humbles us from that natural sense of pride, but it also encourages us To remember that we have all these things because God loves us. And God gave us these things in love as his dearly loved people. And so we give thanks to him. It gives us perspective. It humbles us and it encourages us. And we should be doing that every day of our lives, but especially when we gather together for worship on Sunday morning And then the last verse of Psalm 100 is simply a statement of the goodness of God, his steadfast love and faithfulness. For the Lord is good. This Sunday in church, we're going to be looking at 1 Corinthians 10, 13. And uh Lord willing, I'll be writing that sermon today, so you can pray for me on that. But 1 Corinthians 10. 13 gives us encouragement. in the midst of temptation by remembering that God is faithful. It says, no temptation has overtaken you, but that which is common to men. And God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but will with the temptation provide a way of escape that you may endure it. Our hope is in the faithfulness of God. God is faithful, even in the midst of temptation and trial. The Lord is good. He is good and he does good. Right? Have you ever been around someone who's just a a good person in that in that kind and generous and others centered way. Um it's refreshing. It's it it fills you with with joy and gratitude. Right? And that that's just a sort of an expression of the the human uh reflection of that attribute of God. And I know there's no one who's absolutely good. There's no one who's sinlessly perfect. There's no one who's truly good in a moral spiritual sense. I get that. But I'm talking about there are people in our lives through whom we see, as a dim reflection, the kindness of God, the generosity of God, the patience of God. And I like being around people like that. Maybe because I'm not a person like that. I want to be. But I enjoy being around people like that. It's very encouraging. It's very refreshing. Well, God is is good, right? In an undimmed, undiminished, unfailing way, he is good. His steadfast love, his chassed That is the golden word of the Psalms. God's Hesed endures forever and his faithfulness to all generations. Here we are. We have Psalm 100 before us, it was probably written over 2500 years ago. Or maybe about 2,500 years ago. We don't know for sure, but certainly it's been around for well over 2,000 years. Jesus would have sung Psalm 100, 2,000 years ago, when he was a boy growing up in Nazareth. You know, the people of God have been singing this for generation upon generation. And here we are. Still thanking the same God, still being upheld by His same faithfulness. Isn't that an encouragement? Isn't that a blessing? So what I'd like to do is sing this together. Um and I have All people that on earth do dwell for us to sing together. And I want I picked this one because of the last line of Psalm 100, his faithfulness to all generations. There are some modern versions of Psalm 100 that are not bad, but this one is one of the oldest hymns that we sing uh in the church. It was it comes out of the Geneva Psalter during the days of the ministry of John Calvin in Geneva. Louis Bourgeois was the the the music director uh at Calvin's Church in Geneva, and he wrote this tune to set Psalm 100 uh in 1541, I believe is the date. And then about ten years later it was translated into English. And so here we are able to sing Psalm 100 to the same tune. In the same way that in the English speaking world we've been speaking singing this for almost five hundred years this way and and a little bit longer than that uh in um In the original Geneva and Psalter. So that's that's pretty cool. And this video is taken from uh the Singh conference, 2018 Singh conference that's put on by Keith and Kristen Getty. uh every year in Nashville. Um and so it's just a wonderful straightforward but beautiful uh singing of this by a choir at the Sing Conference. So let's use this to sing praises to the Lord together this morning to sing Psalm 100. We are in We're going to be able to do that. And amen. What a wonderful way to close out our time together this morning. And that's actually how we're going to open our Sunday morning worship time when we gather together at the Deer Creek Overlook. We are going to be indoors this Sunday morning at 10 o'clock, still out at the 4-H camp. We're going to be meeting inside their big building up on the hilltop, the Deer Creek Overlook. So I hope you'll gather together and join us. We've got a little sped-up version of all people that on earth do dwell that we're going to open with this Sunday morning for worship. Psalm 100 will actually be our call to worship and then we'll sing, All people that on earth do dwell together. I'm so looking forward to that. Really excited. And of course we'll share in the Lord's Supper as well. So I hope you can make it out on Sunday for worship if you're in the area. Otherwise, if you don't live in this area, please get to worship on Sunday morning. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we are so thankful for your goodness to us. We are so thankful for your kindness and your faithfulness to us. You are unfailing in your love. You are unfailing in your faithfulness. You are our maker and our sustainer. You are our redeemer and our God. We give you thanks for every day, for every gift, for every breath, for every heartbeat. But we give you thanks still more for the gift of your Son. We just praise you in his name for all that you are. In Jesus' name. Amen.