It's a great, great joy to be back here at uh Forest Hill. Yeah, yeah, I serve with Baum after 29 years in the pastorate. Um mom is basically we're trying to develop leaders, young leaders. We're we worked with the seminary, the Metro Baltimore Seminary. Great story of Metro Baltimore Seminary. We've been going at it for five years very accessible, very affordable seminary here in the Baltimore region. We also are trying to develop some creative micro churches, small house church churches that uh for for people who won't come to regular church You know, we're also just spending a lot of time encouraging pastors and helping young people who are thinking about being pastors or who are pastors or just it pastoring's tough. Pastoring's tough. And so we want to come along uh pastors uh and and just encourage them to to stay stay in the battle. Uh just as we just sang the psalm. The church the church is we're we're w it's a battle. We're in a battle. And the church needs to arise and the church it has to be led by people who who are committed to to the battle. Speaking of the battle, we've A year ago, many of us were looking at 2024 and saying, boy, we're we're headed for a year of great chaos. Well, guess what? We survived, didn't we? We survived 2024. And this is the last Sunday, Lord's Day of 2024, as we 2025 is right on the horizon in a few days. I'd like to think about what is our responsibility as followers of Jesus Christ in this time out of our lives, in this time in history, on the horizon of a new year? Our responsibility as God's people to simply share the good news of Jesus Christ with others. We need to think about that. We need to think about that. And I've been thinking about the book of Romans, of course, a book that I'm sure Jason has preached on here The book of Romans, uh, uh is a book that God has has used in major ways in church history uh to impact people. Very important people. One of the things I one of the things I do at at at Metro Seminar is I teach church history. And so I'm I'm amazed at how many people have their lives transformed by just something in the book of Romans St. Augustine, you might know him the great Catholic uh uh uh uh reformer, uh wasn't a reformer, but a Catholic theologian who who was a very influence on the on the reformers His life was trained. He was a reckless dude. I mean very reckless in his young life. And uh he was truly troubled about his own soul. And he heard some kids uh who who who said, uh, take up and read. And he he knew he thought God was saying something to him, so He found his scroll of the book of Romans in chapter 13, and he read it, and he was dramatically converted. From Romans 13, verses And then Martin Luther, the great reformer that I'm sure you've heard of, a monk who was troubled. What does it mean? He was actually teaching on the Psalms. It came in Psalms Psalm 30, I believe, the word righteousness of God. He said, What is this righteousness of God? He was thinking about his own life and And the Bible, and he was moved into the book of Romans, and he read Romans, he read Romans 1. 17, that the righteous, the the just shall live by faith. And that's that's Transformed him and his understanding of what it meant to follow God as a Catholic monk. That indeed the righteousness of God is not something that we work up, but that God gives to those by faith. Who would trust Jesus Christ? I trust that's you. I trust you have that you're here, that you understand that God's righteousness is not something that you do to gain favor with God. But that by faith he grants righteousness to you. That's the basis of our faith. John Wesley, he was a believer, he was a missionary, a failed missionary. He and his friends one Sunday night in England they went to church and they heard this we don't do this in churches. They heard the reading of Luther's commentary on Romans. That's what they were listening to. And uh they were gripped. They were gripped by the book of Romans and what it had to say about righteousness by faith. And and and he said his heart was was greatly warmed. And it changed him, and he changed the he changed the Methodist denomination that we know of even now came from his encounter with God that began From Romans. Luther said it's the chief part of the New Testament, the perfect gospel, the absolute epitome of the gospel. John Calvin said of Romans, when anyone understands this epistle, he has a passage open to him to the understanding of the whole Bible. Now we in our reformed circles love Romans. I mean I love Romans. I remember as a college student getting excited about my faith, and I did a just studying Romans made it so much clearer to me. I want to encourage you to look at Romans if you had never really dug into that book. Take a deep dive into Romans. Modern scholars are having some interesting discussions about the book, about what's the purpose of the book. I don't want to go into all the details, but I want to talk about one of the debates is what was Paul's purpose in writing that book? Was his purpose only to just give the gospel clearly of justification from faith or was there something else that was moving him and justification is because he wants some other things to happen at Rome. And I take that latter position. Not that we don't have the best understanding of the gospel of justification. In Romans, but he has something else in mind. And it moves towards something. If you know the book of Romans, the first five chapters, four or five chapters, are about justification. our sinfulness and then God's justification. And then the next chapters five to eight is our the sanctification, how justification and sanctification work together. Those are big theological words, don't worry about it And then uh chapters 9 to 11 is if justification by faith is is a thing, what about the the nation of Israel, the Jewish people? And so Paul goes does a deep dive into the implications of justification. And then in chapters 12 to the rest, many of us say, well, that's just the application of justification. And that's true, but it's more than that. I believe that all that he said before that was driving us towards chapters 12 and 16. Now, one of the arguments against that Is it Paul didn't plant that church? You know, Paul was a church planter. He went around starting churches. He didn't plant that church So they say, well, he's just giving his gospel so people will understand his gospel because they don't know him. They haven't he hasn't preached there. Well, I believe that there's some truth to that, but I think If we look at chapter 16 of Romans, don't look at it now, but just glance at it and underline all the names of people that Paul is giving a shout-out to. He just say, hey, you there, Judah in your house. He lists a lot of lot of people that he has interacted with in his travels. Roman believers were traveling through the empire and Paul interacted with them in various cities. And he knows them. And he knows a lot, therefore, about the church at Rome. The church that in the first chapter he says, I'd like to go to you, but I've got to go to Jerusalem first. And then in chapter 15, he says, I'm gonna get you on my way to Spain, because his desire was to preach Christ where Christ was not known. So, I believe that the whole book is driving us towards, I believe, chapter 14 and 15, which is what we're going to look at today. These interesting verses in chapter 14 and 15 And we're going to look at just 15, but he has heard that there's some issues there. And he's using all that he said before this to point to the major issue, which is division among God's people. Now by the time he gets to chapter fourteen, and chapter fi to fifteen seven, which is the the classic uh chapters about the weak versus the strong, and what do you do about these b about uh very specific practical things in the Christian life. But time he gets there, we begin to understand that there's a lot going on. He has said a lot Up to that point about Jews and Gentiles. A lot about Jews and Gentiles. And when we think about Judaism, often we think about just the religious aspects of Judaism. But with that religion came some practices that we came just their basic normal practices. And Judah Ju of course Judaism was not just a religion. It was it was a people group, a tribe, they were all related, and then then there it was also a nation. So Judaism was a lot of different things mixed together. Which is the complexity, because now this new gospel of the New Testament that was instituted by Jesus and the disciples. Goes beyond Judaism. And so how did that work out? How did that work out? And so in these chapters, Paul is trying to address some of the complexities there. As he does in other parts of the scriptures. I mean, um, the point is the issue of Jews and Gentiles, it's not a secondary issue to Paul in his thinking, it's essential to his purpose. It's not just a secondary thing. Everything's driving towards this. Now I like us to think today about about just about our own selves as we look at 2025 and This very complex multicultural society that we live in, that we're called to proclaim and to demonstrate The life-transforming gospel of Jesus Christ to Jews and Gentiles. And I put that in quotes. Jews and Gentiles. In other words, all people, no matter who they are. They need to know the gospel and embrace Christ. He came for all Paul addresses three issues that I want that we need to understand here as we look through the passage. I want to talk about the call to be a people of harmony, verses 1 to 7, to be a people on mission, verses 8 to 12. And a people of power. Verse 13. That's my outline if you like outlines. First, a plea to be a people of harmony. Harmony. Look at verses 1 through 7. He talks about, again, he's he's he's still riffing from chapter 14, where he's done a lot of discussions about the week. And the strong. Verses 1 and 2 talks about the forbearance that's needed. The forbearance that's needed. And um I didn't read this, I didn't read my passage, did I? I don't think I did. Let me read the passage right here. My my mistake. I always want to read the word of God. In fact, the word of God is always more important than the word of Stan. I always say that So let's pause. Let's read. So anxious to proclaim the word, I forgot to read the word. Verses 1 through 13 is our text. Let's read it right now. Now, we who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good Good, to build him up. For Christ did not please himself, but as as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproach you fell on me. For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another and accord in accord with Christ Jesus, that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. For I tell you, But Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs, in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles and sing to your name. And again it said, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people And again, praise the Lord, all you Gentiles. Let all the peoples extol him. And again, Isaiah says, The root of Jesse will come, even he who rises to rule the Gentiles. In him will the Gentiles Hope. May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. Amen. So he begins with uh I believe uh in these first few verses a plea for That they be harmonious, that they be of one voice, with one voice. They be a people who are united together. This comes in the context of again this This problem of the weak and the strong having different scruples about various things in in life, various habits, various um practices. Um Um turn in such things such as worship on certain days or eating food that's been sacrificed to idol gods, all these issues that they come at because of their cultural backgrounds from different perspectives And he calls for forbearance, for putting up with each other. That's what he calls for in that pre-chapter, and then as he continues here in chapter 15. We're not to it basically says we're not just to we're we're to be concerned about our neighbor, we're also be concerned about our own conscience We're to do all that. And then he talks about in verse 3. He uses Christ as an example. He quotes from Psalm, Psalm 969, verse 9. We're Christ. He yielded of himself. And we need to yield ourselves to one another as we relate to each other. Approaches those who approach you, Philip, one me Then then he P Paul's gonna he's going to go to the source uh and give some Bible verses. Before he does that, he does he give us a very good verse about the Bible, about the Old Testament scriptures and their purpose. Look at verse 4. Whatever was written in former days, that's the Old Testament, was written for our instruction. You know, as a Christian, the Old Testament's for you. That through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. So he's going to plead that that we be united and have harmony. And he but he says but he first he says the scriptures are written. That we that these things might happen. We might be encouraged and and and challenge each other and have and have the hope of Christ. And then he's gonna then he's gonna give us some verses in the Old Testament. But here's what Charles Spurgeon, the great Baptist theologian, said Christ did not receive us because we were perfect, because he could see no fault in us, or because he hoped to gain somewhat at our hands. No, no, I know. But in loving condescension, covering our faults, seeking our good, he welcomed us to his heart. So in the same way, with the same purpose, let us receive one another. Verse 7, receive the one another authorized version, this ESV, welcome one another. He's talking about, Paul is talking, he uses the word harmony in verse 5. Harmony. Um I'm sure maybe this week you at at Christmas we at our Christmas family Christmas dinner with the uh the we had um they had the football game on because the Ravens were playing and many are Ravens fans around here. I don't know why, but that's another question. The Ravens game was on. And and so I was kinda on. I was kinda watching it, kinda not watching it. And um they had the halftime was Beyonce. Maybe you saw that. Hopefully you didn't. No, I shouldn't say that. But I mean, very talented, but yet she's got more she uses more than just her raw talent to entertain. Anyway, I I I was I I I kinda didn't w I wasn't watching, it was kinda I went to look later online and I saw that the national anthem was done by a group called Pentatonics. You know what that group is? I hope you do. They're kind of new to me in the last few years, but the difference is uh w w when you think about harmony, that's what you think about. They're beautiful. The beautiful sounds of the voices together, male, female, it's really wonderful. And they have they have melody and harmony blended together beautifully. You know, that's what God wants us to be as his people. people. We're not supposed to be living in melody because we're different. And that's okay. But if you don't blend together, you have what music this. You have it's not harmony, it's dissonance. It's it clashes. I heard a song a few weeks ago where the the person trying to sing harmony, he was off. And it it kind of uh i i it i it irritates you when there's harmony that's not working In the body of Christ. It's irritating when it's supposed to be harmony, but it's not working. Paul's calling us to be people who live in harmony. Stanley, in our reform circles, I believe, we minimize the importance of the Jew-Gentile divide in terms of the harmony that God wants us to have. It's not new in the New Testament. I mean, Jesus embraced the half-breed Samaritans, the women of the well. He had the the woman who came to him, and and you know the gent the the the Jews would call those Gentiles, they called them dogs. That's what they called them. They were dogs. And they that that word plays in that passage in Matthew. 15. Jesus complimented a person, a soldier, who said, you have greater faith even in among more than the faith of the people of Israel The Jew, non-Jew, or Gentile division was very strong in the first century. We see in Acts it continues of Jew Peter had the division in chapter 10 and 11 of this Jewish diet. That this food that he wasn't supposed to eat and the vision said, Go and eat the food. And three times he had to be convinced to eat the food. And so there's a lot going on in the New Testament, with the Jews and Gentiles, during this transitional time. Well, of course, God established a Jewish nation back in Genesis 12, right? With Abraham. And on through the Old Testament, we see many things established, many of the ordinance and rules that were given Creating a people, religious rules, national rules, cultural rules, what they would have been is a unique ethnic group of people. But the New Testament is not just about being a particular ethnic group. It's about being, it's a universal thing where we can come with our particular ethnicities to Jesus Christ and live out our life that way. And so there was a transition that had to take place in the New Testament. And so in Ephesians chapter two, Paul can say that uh the Jews and Gentiles, the divide has been abolished, the middle wall partition has been knocked down And now he is our peace. Jesus is our peace who brings us together. There's no anger between Jews and non-Jews. The point is about harmony here. Jews in their legalism, they misunderstood freedom in Christ. Paul, a very trained Jew, a Pharisee of Pharisees, came to Christ and understood it. See, the Jews believe their their Jewish customs and traditions and even the Old Testament commands were essential elements for salvation for all people. In essence, they were saying to Gentiles that you can only be saved as a Gentile Only be true members of Christ's body and be saved if you first embrace all the Jewish cultural practices. And of course the the key one was the circumcision right If you know your Bible, the book of Acts, that's a big one. The whole Acts 15, Jerusalem Council. My point, there's a plea in this passage. Paul is pleaing. Be united. Be in harmony with one voice. Glorify the Lord Jesus Christ together. Together. The second plea he gives is a plea that they be a people on mission. Verses 8 to 12. A people on mission. Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs, in order that the Gentiles may glorify God for his Mercy. He makes several points there. Jesus came as a servant. Philippians chapter 2. He came through the Jewish people culturally and religiously and nationally. Sharing their family customs and their values and their history and their culture. But he he was he's a servant. Think of Isaiah, the servant of the Lord, the Lord's servant. Isaiah, the last half of Isaiah, that's that he talks about this Messiah being the Lord's servant. Jesus confirmed that they are Jews the circumcised, that the Jews who circumcised were were the true people of God. Jesus did that. He came through them. They were the true people of God. He confirmed the truthfulness of God's promises through the patriarchs and the prophets as well. That they were fulfilled in him. In him, confirmed the promises given to the patriarchs. And verse nine adds he adds the the purpose. Paul has the purpose. That. The Gentiles might come to the true faith along with God's people That Gentiles might come to the true faith along with God's people. He's embracing the idea that the mercy and love of God is for Gentiles as well God always desired Gentiles to be included. God was never an exclusive God. Barriers such as the diet laws and the temporal court fences were always only to be temporary They were always only to be temporary. So Paul talks about that, and then he gives, he gives, then he opens his Bible for the Bible verses that he knows. And he gives us in verses 9 and 12 four Old Testament passages, one from Psalms 18, one from Deuteronomy 32, one from Psalm 117, one from Isaiah 11. And each one of those verses has something very important there. It's a call of God that the Gentiles would be would embrace God's covenant. I will praise you among the Gentiles. Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people. Praise the Lord all you Gentiles. The Ud of Jesse will come even he who arises to rule the Gentiles. Each of those verses, what links them together? That one word. The Gentiles. the the the Jews the Hebrew word goyim, the the the the nations, the peop different translations. It's a play God always has the other on his heart, those who aren't like us. He always has that on those who have a few applications on this. One, don't be ashamed of the gospel. Don't be ashamed of the gospel. You see, Jesus is the truth No matter what we think about the gospel being for all people, the gospel that's for all people is a gospel about Jesus. And some people forget that. There is truth and therefore there is error. The Gentiles are not always right. Gentiles in quotes again. We need to understand that. Sometimes Christians who get excited about the gospel forget that You've got to be clear about the gospel. People need to know the bad news before they can embrace the good news And sometimes we in our desire that people would come to know Jesus, we forget the fullness of this gospel of Christ. Don't be ashamed of the gospel. But because it's the gospel that's the power of God for salvation for Jew and Gentiles. Romans 1 says. Second, don't be afraid to challenge dominant misinterpretations, dominant cultural misinterpretations of scripture Regarding practices that are cultural practices. In other words, there's certain things that the dominant Christian culture think are absolutes. We need to rethink them sometimes. Because sometimes those are often barriers to the lost coming to Christ. Um fur the again, a kind of a parallel section of scripture in the New Testament is is the book of First is 1 Corinthians chapter 8 and 9. Well Paul is talking to the Corinthian church about a similar thing. And here's what he says in 1 Corinthians 9 verses 19 to 23. He says, though I am free from all, I made myself a servant to all, that I might win more of them. Win them to Christ. He says, then he says, to the Jews, I became a Jew. Then he says, to those outside, that's the Gentiles, I became, I said, well, I became as one outside. He says, to the weak I became weak. And then he says um in in verse uh twenty-two, I've become all things to all people that by all means I might save some. Now he's now he's using hyperbole, obviously. He hasn't become everything. I mean, that would be heresy if he was if he was not using hyperbole there. But he's saying we've got to he says I've expanded my understanding of of uh of of things uh for the sake of those outside who don't know Christ. And I and I think often we need to we we forget that principle. One of the things i again, church history. One of the great figures in in in the missionary movement was a man named Hudson Taylor, who was a British guy. He founded the the China Inland Mission. He he challenged the the common Western view that to to reach uh lost people, you couldn't be have a ministry that was too much like them. You had to kind of stay distant. He said, no, no, no, I'm gonna learn their language. I'm gonna even begin to look like they look And his home church in in in in in Great Britain, in in England, they they like they they they thought he was crazy. You don't do that. You don't wanna be you don't do that. You don't wanna live among the people and and look like them. But but He did that and he was very successful. He understood that in areas that are not moral, we have great flexibility. He understood that. Often we in the church don't understand that, and therefore people balk. At our churches, at our ministries. My point is the third point. Learn to appreciate all people. That's my third application. Learn to appreciate people. Often, if you're like me, you appreciate people who are like you. But it's it it's a little more difficult to appreciate people who are not like you. That's common. The gospel of God wants us to push through that. For the sake of the lost. To once it's become all things to all people, that you might win some to the Lord. In this 21st century, the mission all missiologists and sociologists, they like to talk about categories of people, of faith categories. And two of the fast growing categories are called the nuns and the duns. The nuns are people who grow up with no faith at all. No religion. These are people you walk into and and they couldn't tell you three of the Ten Commandments. They don't know anything about the Bible. And then you have the duns. And these are people who know a lot about the Bible. They've been in church, and then they said, for some reason, they said, I'm done with it. The t the the are the two the the fastest growing in in America groups are the nuns and the duns. And we need to, as Bible-believing Christians, understand that and say, what's going on? What is going on? Well, there is good news though. I heard a statistic a few weeks ago. In 2024, the sale of Bibles has increased by 22%. Did you hear that statistic? It was a Wall Street Journal statistic a few months ago. And there's been a lot of discussion about that. People are are buying Bibles more 22% increase from the previous year. Why? What is going on in what is God doing? God is stirring up people. But that that's the good news. But here's the the caution. We're not seeing growth in churches. There's interest in Jesus, interest in God, interest in the Bible, but so far it hasn't spilled over into church attendance. And you know, it may not ever do that because of scandals in the church and because of the different things, the different kind of culture that church is for many people. Just something even to think about as again as we look at this next year and ask the question, what what what is God doing? We need to be more intentional about creating lifestyles and ministries that proclaim and demonstrate clearly to this culture the good news about Jesus Christ. Well, my third and last point is simply a plea that we be people of power. Look at verse 13. It's about power, I think. May the God of hope. Fill you with joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. We in our reformed circles talk need to talk more about the power of the Holy Spirit. Sometimes we're afraid of the Holy Spirit He is God. He comes to dwell with us. He comes to be our our our sure our assurance He gives us illumination to the Word of God so we can understand it. And he gives us the enabling power to obey the Word of God, the Holy Spirit. He gives us, he bears fruit in our lives, joy and peace. It would mention it in here. But also twice it mentions hope. Hope. As you look at this next year, and what God is doing in your life and at what and what you want God to do in your life. Um do you have a spirit of fear? Or spirit of hope. Think about that. Meditate on that in your own prayer life. What are you anticipating God to do in you? And what are you anticipating God might do through you? To bless others. See, this is one thing our Pentecostal friends sometimes they get this wrong. The power of the Spirit is not just given to bless you. It's given to bless you so you can bless others. What does Acts 1. 8 say? You shall receive power when the Spirit comes. Power to be blessed? Not just that. Power to be a witness in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and ends of the world The Spirit wants to save people. But the Spirit saves people through people who are empowered with His Word and with His presence and with His gospel. Here on the verge of 2025, doesn't verse 13 kind of capture you? Doesn't it capture some of what you want to see for yourself, maybe for your family, for your church, for your community? Don't you want to see hope? Joy? We talk a lot about joy during Christmas, don't we? Joy to the world. Peace. We talk a lot about peace. Peace on earth. Well the true source of hope and joy and peace is the Spirit of God. Oh, may we understand that we must Live with the understanding that as Jesus said in the Gospels, without me you can do nothing. May we understand, may we understand as we look at this next year, the exhortation of the scriptures to not be drunk with wine, which is in excess, but to be filled with the Spirit of God. That's the key to being the people of God. Well, my time's up. We've seen Paul plea for harmony, for mission, and for power. In in 1969, there was a song about not the year 2025, but the year 2525. How many of you are old like me remember that song? Ah, a couple, okay. In the year twenty-five twenty-five. It was a group called Zeger and Evans to I couldn't tell you another song that that group did And probably you can't either because they're w one hit wonders is what they used to call those. That song reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 for six weeks. Starting in July of 1969. I won't read all the lyrics, but here's a few. In the year 2525, if man is still alive, if Women can survive, they may find. And he goes on with several verses about the year 3535. And it it it it it anticipates truth pills. Ain't gonna t need to tell the truth, tell no lie. Everything you think, do, and say is in the pill you took today. And then I won't read all the verses. Forty-five-forty-five, he anticipates famine and impersonal relationships. 5555 anticipates robotics taking over human bodies. 6565 anticipates alternative reproductive practices, IVF, which is now here In the year 7510, here's what he says. If God's a coming, you ought to make it by then. Maybe he'll look around himself and say, I guess it's time for the judgment day Some of you remember the song, you remember that line, don't you? God is going to shake his mighty head. He'll either say, I'm pleased where man has been, or tear it down and start again. In the year 95-95, he says, I'm kind of wondering if man's gonna be alive. He's taken everything this old earth can give, and he ain't put back nothing. Just now it's been 10,000 years. Man has cried a billion tears for what he never knew. Now man's reign is through. Man's reign. Again, I don't know anything about Zeger and Evans who wrote that song, performed that song. But they're talking about God, the future, and that now we're living in the reign of man. They know something of truth. Man never has the final say. The kingdoms of men are always temporary. Only the kingdom of God will last. And we are stewards. We're managers. We're to be faithful, to be fruitful, and multiply, to take care of creation, to take care of one another. This is, and it's always been the creation mandate. But the Lord is impressing upon me the need for more intentional, to be more intentional about the redemption mandate, about reaching out to others Neighbors, family members, children, parents, co-workers, enemies, online acquaintances. As we enter 2025, we all know people who are far from God's grace, don't we? And I believe God's calling his people to be much more intentional about sharing Jesus with our lips and with our lives. So lost people can get to know him. For believers in 2025, the task remains what's always been. Nothing new. It's a radical commitment to the Great Commandment. And the Great Commission. The Great Commandment to love God and love one another with all of our heart, soul, might, and strength. Our neighbor as ourselves. Embrace Jesus' new commandment. Agape love, this divine supernatural love, let it lead us, fill us each day, confirming the genuineness of our faith. By accepting and welcoming one another, receiving one another, and glorifying with one voice the true and living God. That unity, that harmony, speaks loudly to a dis a divided world. With a the the the the Great Commandment. But then the Great Commission to to not just demonstrate through love, but to proclaim, to make disciples, embrace the calling. To reach out to all people, all ethne, people groups, nations, as it says in the Great Commission that we read, to live as ambassadors for Christ, pointing people to their Creator and to the one who can redeem them. So then together, all God's people, Jews and Gentiles, Jews, those who have the Bible and of the covenant. Gentiles, those who don't have a Bible, but they maybe have a few natural instincts about God, but they're outside. All people might rejoice together In our God, in the perfect salvation, He's accomplished. May it be true. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, as we on the verge of another year, I pray we would evaluate our hearts, evaluate our our our lives. Many look back with pain at things of the previous year. Many kinda are glad the year's over. Yet there's a future. And there are many, many people in our world, in our society, in our in our culture who Who are lost and who need to know this gospel, that there is one who gives mercy and forgiveness. His name is Jesus. May we be quick and clear and compassionate as we share that news. Lord, I would pray for anyone here today, Lord. Who doesn't yet know Jesus, that they would cry out to you, call on you, turn, repent, and believe. In one who died, that they might have life. Now Eternally. It's in his name we pray. Amen.