Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's so good to be with you here on the fourth day of our fortieth week together in the Gospels. We're in John chapter twenty, verses twenty-four to thirty-one, and we're asking the question, what is the real value of the Gospel of John? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. We thank you for all four of the Gospels that you've inspired, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. We ask that as we're coming close to the end of the Gospel of John, that you would write its truth on our hearts and help us to love Jesus better because of it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right John chapter 20 verses 24 to 31. Now Thomas, one of the twelve called the twin. was not with them when Jesus came. So the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, put your finger here and see my hands, and put your hand and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe. Thomas said. Answered him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen, and yet have believed. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written. So that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name Well, we're here on week 40, day four. That means tomorrow will be our 200th day together in the Gospels, and we've spent almost fifty of those days together in the Gospel of John. We've got three more days after today. We'll have tomorrow and then Monday and Tuesday will be finished with our time in the Gospels. And we'll have over fifty days in the Gospel of John, going through its twenty-one chapters together. So so what's the real benefit that we gain from all this time? What's the value of John's Gospel? Well, John tells us the benefit of his gospel here at the end of his book. Thomas, the one known as doubting Thomas. He has the most powerful and clear profession of faith in Jesus Christ in all four Gospels. Jesus answers Thomas' doubt by inviting Thomas to put his fingers in Jesus' scarred hands and place his hand in Jesus' pierced side. Then Thomas answers Jesus' invitation by proclaiming, My Lord. and my God. Jesus then answers Thomas's proclamation of faith by saying, Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not yet seen and yet have believed. Blessed are those who have not yet seen, and yet have believed. That's the blessing available to everyone who will read John's Gospel. John knew he was the last living apostle. He knew He was writing the last gospel. He wanted his readers, people who had never even seen Jesus, including you and me, to receive this blessing promised by Jesus, the blessing of believing, even though we have not seen. And that's why right after Jesus awards, John comes in and says, these are written. Jesus did many other things, could have been written down, but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ. Not having seen him You may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. None of us has ever seen the Lord We weren't there in that upper room. Either the first time when Thomas was absent or the second time when Thomas was there. We've never seen him. But we receive an even greater blessing than those who see him, who saw him that night, because if we believe And we trust we have life in his name in such a way that we are commended for faith, not sight. The signs recorded in John's Gospel, turning water into wine, he uh healing Raising the dead, feeding five thousand, Jesus' own rising from the dead. These signs, seven of them, are throughout John's Gospel, and he could have put many, many more in there, but they're there to testify. That Jesus is the Christ. He is the anointed Messiah. He is the Son of God. He is the Word of God made flesh. He has the power of life in Himself. He showed This life-giving power when he raised Lazarus from the dead, when he defeated death himself, and Thomas was right when he said that Jesus is my Lord. and my God. So John's whole purpose in writing this gospel is to make the good news of Jesus Christ available and open to all who will believe. From beginning to end he had this one clear message. So The question for you, 50 days in the Gospel, 200 days almost in the Gospels, do you believe Do you believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God? Will you receive life in his name? If you have received life by faith in him, will you turn around and share this gospel with others Would you give someone a copy of the Gospel of John and invite them to read it with you and pray for them to see Jesus by faith and not by sight? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much that you have given us life in your Son Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. Please show us. Strengthen our faith and lead us to share this faith with others. That the world may know that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me. As we're coming near the end of the Gospel of John, we're going to start chapter 21 tomorrow, our final chapter, three more devotionals together. Hope you can join me for all of them. Have a blessed day in the Lord.