Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is so good to be with you. as we are working our way through the Heidelberg Catechism together, and we've come to a very significant catechism question here on this Good Friday. 2026, and that we've come to question number 37, which deals with the suffering of Christ. So it'll give us an opportunity to really deeply meditate on the sufferings of Christ through Scripture today. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we do so. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your great love for us. Thank you for giving us life in your Son Jesus Christ our Savior. Thank you that he was willing to suffer for us, willing to enter into our sorrows, our agonies, our suffering, and to redeem us by suffering in our place. Please teach us more about Jesus together today. We pray in his name. Amen. Amen. So In the Heidelberg Catechism, just a reminder that we are in the section that deals with the Apostles' Creed. And it began back on question 23. asking what are these articles, the articles of the Christian faith. And there's 12 articles in three sections that are contained in the Apostles' Creed I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried. He descended into hell On the third day he rose from the dead, he ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting So we're working our way through this Apostles' Creed, through these 12 statements. And we've been talking about the third article. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary. But today we move on to the fourth article. It's part of Lord's Day 15, as they're arranged by Lord's Days. It's question number 37. What do you confess when you say that he suffered? And the answer is. during all the time he lived on earth, but especially at the end, Christ bore in body and soul the wrath of God against the sin of the whole human race. Thus by his suffering as the only atoning sacrifice, he has redeemed our body and soul from everlasting damnation and obtained for us the grace of God. righteousness and eternal life. So he suffered. The Apostles' Creed says he suffered under Pontius Pilate It's really during the whole time of his life on earth, but especially at the end, in body and soul, he bore the wrath of God as an atoning sacrifice. And of the scriptures that they give us for question number 37, it begins with Isaiah 53. So today we're going to spend the vast majority of our time looking at Isaiah 53. Which is profound because it is the single clearest passage in all the Bible, Old Testament or New Testament. to show us the agonies of Christ and their purpose. Why did Christ suffer? What did he accomplish by his suffering? And it was written, of course, over 700 years before Jesus was born. It's in the Old Testament, the clearest passage about why Jesus suffered and what he accomplished by his suffering. is in the Old Testament, not the New Testament, 700 plus years before Jesus was even born. So let's turn our attention to Isaiah 53. Verses 1-3, who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him. and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent. so he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away, and as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people. And they made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich man in his death. Although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. And we're going to stop there. That's verse 9. The rest of Isaiah 53 actually gets into the resurrection of Jesus. And so we will revisit this passage when we get to that part of the Apostles' Creed. But this is verses 1 through 9 of Isaiah 53. It's the good news of the gospel. It is the proclamation. It's the revealing of the arm of the Lord. Christ Jesus is the right arm of the Lord. In ancient thought and ancient poetic uh language and in the language of the Bible, the right arm is is how how God acts in the world, how a ruler acts. is his right arm. And the way God acts for the saving of his people is through the Lord Jesus Christ. He grew up like a young plant, like a root out of dry ground. There was a very spiritually dry time. It had been 400 years since God spoke to his people from the end of the book of Malachi. to the coming of John the Baptist, the forerunner, there was dry ground in Israel. There was a dry legalism, there was um an oppressive system of corruption. And Jesus comes up as a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. Many, many people saw Jesus. And it's not like he had a radiant glow. Sometimes, you know, the old traditional classical artwork always has Jesus with a halo over his head and, you know, as if he's somehow shining with a radiant brilliance, but he didn't do that He wrapped himself in normal human flesh. And most people who saw him did not think, oh, this is surely the Son of God. It was only when the power of God broke through at remarkable moments that people were shocked because they had seen this man. And they didn't think that there was anything special about him. He didn't have a compelling appearance. He was despised And rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. This was the lot of Jesus People were always trying to get him to fulfill their agenda, to fit into their plan, to serve their purposes, and when it was clear that he was not going to play that game, he was despised and rejected They said, we have no use for you. If we can't use you as a tool to serve our political agenda, then we have no use for you. He was a man of sorrows. He was acquainted with grief, grief of many different kinds. He lost his earthly father Joseph sometime before the age of thirty before he began his earthly ministry. He saw his cousin and forerunner John the Baptist get beheaded by Herod. He saw his friend Lazarus die, and he wept at his grave. He wept over Jerusalem because he knew the coming judgment that was coming. And yet, when he was carrying his cross, When he was going out to bear our sins, people were ashamed of him. People spat upon him, people beat him. His friends hid in fear and were ashamed to be associated with him. But why was he doing all this? Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows That's what he was doing when he carried that cross. That's what he was doing when he entered into this world, when he grieved at the death of his father, when he grieved at the death of John the Baptist, when he grieved at the death of Lazarus and others. He was he was He was entering into our human weakness so that he could be a sympathetic high priest who understands what it is to be hungry and tired and misunderstood and rejected and betrayed. and slandered and abandoned. He entered into all of that. And while he's doing that for us, While he's doing that for us, we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. We said, Oh, God is dealing with him. That's what the Jewish religious leader said. He claimed to be God and now God is dealing with But the truth of what was happening is that he was being pierced for our transgressions. He was being crushed for our iniquities. All the chastisement, all the punishment that we deserve and that was necessary to be meted out if we were to have peace was put upon him. And with his wounds, with his stripes, with his blood being shed, we are healed. We were all going astray like sheep. We had all turned our own way. We all wanted our own things, and the Lord laid on him the iniquity, the wickedness, the filth of us all, to turn us all back to God through him. He was oppressed. And he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lamb led to the slaughter, like a sheep before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. Jesus did not defend himself. He did not present a counter case, a defense argument, either before the Sanhedrin, or before Pontius Pilate, or before Herod. When he was asked direct questions, he answered them, but he did not speak up in his own defense. He willingly and humbly submitted to a death he did not deserve, but that we needed in order to save us. It's powerful. It's profound. He was cut off. He was taken away by oppression and judgment. That shows that the oppressive rule of the Romans and and the false judgment of the Jewish Sanhedrin took him away Cut him off from the land. As for his generation, he's cut off from the land of the living. Jesus never married, he never had any biological children. So he had nothing, seemingly, when they put him in the grave. He was completely cut off. And he made his grave with the wicked. That means he died among among criminals. He died between two thieves. He died where criminals die. He died in a place of open shame, and yet with a rich man in his death. That one line is so powerful because it's a contradiction. People either have their grave made with the wicked or with the rich, but not both, because the wicked get thrown into a heap. They get thrown into a pile, maybe covered with a little bit of loose dirt. They do get picked apart by the birds of the air, by the wild animals. They get scavenged on. And so if you're made, if you have your grave made with the wicked, then you're not with the rich man. And yet Jesus experienced both. This one line is profound proof of the truth of Scripture. that Jesus was killed with the wicked, with two criminals, in a place of public execution, and yet ended up in the grave of a rich man. Although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. He was the sinless man of sorrows. who suffered for us. Why did he suffer? One more passage to look at Hebrews 5, verses 7 and 8. In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears. to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. I love this section of the book of Hebrews. Jesus was a human being. True human being Yes, he was eternal Son of God. Yes, he was God-made flesh. But we see here in the days of his flesh, this is a reference to his human nature. And as a human being, he had to pray to his father. He was needy, he was dependent, and he faithfully sought his father in everything with prayers and supplications, and in the Garden of Gethsemane loud cries and tears to the point where he was sweating drops of blood. in agony, praying to the one who was able to save him from death. And in the end, three days after he was crucified, he was heard because of his reverence. He was heard because of his reverence. Although he was a son, he was already the eternal son of God, he was already beloved by the Father, he had to learn obedience through what he suffered. Why? So that we could be. Saved. That brings us back to our catechism question 37. What do you confess when you say he suffered during all the time he lived on earth, but especially at the end? Christ bore in body and soul the wrath of God against the sin of the whole human race, thus by his suffering as the only atoning sacrifice He has redeemed our body and soul from everlasting damnation and obtained for us the grace of God, righteousness, and eternal life. Hmm, that is profound truth to meditate on on this Good Friday. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. Thank you for giving your one and only Son, the Son you love, to suffer in such ways. For us and for our salvation. Lord Jesus, thank you for leaving heaven and coming to earth, laying aside glory, entering into flesh and suffering. For us, for our salvation. Holy Spirit, thank you for drawing our hearts to Jesus and giving us faith in Him that we might find life in His name Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, may we walk trusting in the sufferings of Jesus. May we live by faith in the Son of God who gave himself for us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Amen. Well, we are going to respond to this wonderful devotional by singing together, Stricken, Smitten, and Afflicted. I love lifted seed in my 'tis the price while I rejected as my soul to lift. Tell me to hear your glory was there by the hand, friends who hear this cause is all. Forces all to meet his breath Many and praise your own clothes to say. A good deal with the stroke that just made. You great at us and lightly most supposed to be. Here we have all foundation, here the rest. Christ the rock of our salvation is the name of the only God Sagrifice to gentle kill, none shall ever be confident. Shall ever be content who are all