Good morning and welcome to our morning devotionals in the Heidelberg Catechism. I'm Pastor Jason. And Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are moving from guilt through grace to gratitude over the course of this year as we look at the 129 questions and answers of the Heidelberg Catechism and today we're taking a look at question number four. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your great love for us and your faithfulness. You are unfailing. You are good. You meet us every day as we spend time in your word, as we come before you wanting to learn from you. You are faithful to teach us, and so we pray that you would be so today, that you would teach us from your word, and that you would write it on our hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Heidelberg Catechism question number four. What does the law of God require of us? Now, why are we talking about the law of God? Just a little bit of review. We're talking about how we can have eternal comfort by knowing that we belong to Christ. body and soul in life and in death. And to know that, we have to know three things in order to live and die in the gospel comfort of belonging to Christ. First we have to know how great and why our sins and miseries are, and that is our guilt. Second, we need to know how we're delivered from all of our sins and misery. And third, we need to know How we are to be thankful to God for such deliverance. That's gratitude. So that's why we're calling this from guilt through grace to gratitude. And we know our sin and misery from the law of God. So that brings us to our fourth question. What does the law of God require of us? There are hundreds of commandments in the law of God. Of course, there's ten. in the most famous summary of of the moral law of God, the Ten Commandments, but Jesus gave us an even more concise summary in Matthew 22. So the answer is, Christ teaches us in some, Matthew 22, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength. This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. So this is one of the places where the catechism answer is Scripture. So in memorizing the catechism, you'd be memorizing Scripture here. So what does the law of God require of us? Christ teaches us in Psalm, Matthew 22, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. This is the first and great commandment. Jesus said this. The first and great commandment is to love God and love God with everything you have. Heart, mind, soul, strength, all of you. Inside, outside, physical, mental, emotional, spiritual, every single part of you, loving God wholeheartedly, unreservedly. Of course we don't, but that is the first and great commandment. You can't really argue with that because God is love, and God is holy, and God is perfect, and God is the creator of all things, and we should definitely love him. He loves us, he made us, he keeps us, he blesses us, we should love him. That's the first and great commandment. And the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Everyone in our lives. Our neighbor, Jesus taught us, is everyone in our lives. Everyone we have interactions with, everyone that we can in any way bless or help. They're our neighbor. And we are to love them as much as we love ourselves because they are made in the image of God just as much as we are. They have just as much value as we do. And then Jesus says, on these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. Now that's interesting, and I want to show you. How that's true in the most famous part of the law, and that is the Ten Commandments. So let's look at the Ten Commandments in light of this. The Ten Commandments call us to love God in the first five commandments. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, all call us to love God. And then they call us to love others in commandments 4 through 10. You'll notice that the fourth and fifth commandment actually overlap, and they call us both to loving God and to loving our neighbor. We'll see that Traditionally, we've understood the Ten Commandments as being in two tablets, two tables of the law, and the first table of the law is the first four commandments. and they're about loving God. And then the second table of the law is about the next six commandments, five through ten, and they're about loving others. But I actually think that the fourth and fifth commandments in particular are transitional. They cover both loving God and loving our neighbor. And while Moses did have the Ten Commandments written on two tablets of stone, we don't know from Scripture, we know from tradition, but we don't know from Scripture that it was four commandments on one and six on the other. In fact, all ten may very well have been on both tablets, and they were put in the Ark of the Covenant together, one as God's copy. And the other as the people's copy, and they met together in the Ark of the Covenant, which was the meeting place of God and his people. That's another uh theory for why the two tablets of stone. But anyway, I want to look at these in terms of loving God. We worship no other gods. That's the first commandment. You shall have no other gods before me. That means we worship no other gods. God loves us and he wants us to love him as God exclusively. All other things are created by God. God alone is the uncreated, the source of all things that are non-God, the one who gives us life. and breath in every good and perfect gift, and so we are to love him, and the first way we love him is by not worshiping any other gods. The second is that we make no graven images. We don't bow down before an image of God, nor do we make an image of God. So we make no graven images of God. to be worshipped or even to exist because we shouldn't reduce God to an image. That's reducing God, and that's not worshiping God in the way that He wants to be worshipped. We honor God's name. Third commandment, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. So we need to honor God's name. We need to honor God's day. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh is the Sabbath unto the Lord your God, and on it you shall do no work, neither you, nor your manservant, nor your maidservant, nor the stranger who is within your gates. And then the fifth commandment, honor God's authority, honor your father and mother, that it may go well with you in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. All five of those talk about loving God. Loving God by worshiping him exclusive exclusively, loving God by worshiping him in the way that he wants to be worshipped, loving God by honoring his name, by honoring his day, and by honoring his authority. And then Going back to four and five, four and five also tell us how to love others. The fourth commandment, we're not only to rest ourselves But we're to give rest to those who serve us and those who live alongside us, our manservant and maidservant. and the stranger within our gates. So those who may not even know the Lord, but they live with us. They live within our communities. We should be giving rest to them. And that's why actually This is not the main point of this catechism question, but that's why I think it's really important that we give rest to others on the Lord's Day by not going out to eat Not going out to shop, not going out to a ticketed sporting event or concert, because when you do that, you're making other people work for you, and I think that's a violation of the fourth commandment. We should remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Resting ourselves and giving rest to our neighbors. The fifth commandment is about loving our neighbor, because our parents are our first closest neighbor. They're the ones who have authority over us, but they also live with us. And it extends to all those who are in authority as the neighbors that God has put over us in some way. Police officers, mayors, governors, those who have authority. We are to honor them. So these two commandments, see, they both honor God by honoring his day and by honoring his authority. But they also love others by giving rest to our neighbors and by honoring all parents and those who are in authority. And then we are to honor life. You shall not murder. We are to honor marriage. You shall not commit adultery. We are to honor the property of others. You shall not steal We are to honor the reputation of others by not bearing false witness against our neighbor. That's why it's put in the terms of you shall not bear false witness against your neighbor, because you're loving your neighbor, and by loving your neighbor You're protecting, safeguarding, honoring their reputation. Don't gossip, don't slander. This includes people who are in the public eye In our culture today, we think we get a free pass if someone's a celebrity or a politician or in the public eye, we can slander them, we can gossip about them, we can spread all sorts of hate about them. No, we can't. Do not bear false witness against your neighbor. And finally I said, the tenth commandment I have, rejoice in the well-being of others. What? The commandment says, do not covet. That's right. What are we doing when we're coveting? When we're coveting anything that doesn't belong to us but it belongs to our neighbor, we're saying I should have that. They shouldn't. We don't go so far as to actually steal it. But we desire that we should have it for ourselves, which means we're not rejoicing in their well-being. We're only thinking about our own well-being. And so the positive way to put that is to rejoice in the well-being of others. You see how the Ten Commandments, they call us to love God. In our worship, in our speech, in our living, in our submitting, and they call us to love one another in all of our relationships and uh every aspect of life. And so love is the summary, the fulfillment, as Paul says in Romans, love is the fulfillment of the law. So how are we doing? Remember, in where we are in the catechism, this is supposed to show us our sin and misery. How we doing? Do you love God with all of your heart, mind, soul, and strength? Really? Everything within you? No, I don't think so. I know I've never really done that. There are times when I'm in intense worship or in prayer and dedication that I feel, I feel strongly in my heart. But I've not given God every part of me all the time, as I know I should. Love my neighbor as myself? No, I am much too selfish. I don't treat other people the way that I want to be treated. I don't care as much about their well-being as I care about my own. So these these commandments, these ten commandments, we, if we really think about them on a deep spiritual level, we are guilty of breaking all of them. We look to other things that are not God to give us what God alone has promised to give us. We look, we put our hope and our faith in non-God. We make graven images. We make images of God in our mind, in our heart. We change God to be like we want Him to be like. That's making a graven image. We don't honor God's name. That's more than just not using God's name as a curse word. It's honoring God's name with our lives. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. Means if you're called by God's name, you ought to live up to the quality of that name We don't honor God's day resting as we should and giving rest to others as we should. We don't honor God's authority as we should. We don't honor life, you know, we live in a very cheapening of life culture, you know, and and I think we buy into that way too readily. Lust is everywhere, so we don't really honor marriage the way that we should. We don't honor the property of others. If you're stealing time from your boss by not working when you should, or you're stealing taxes from the government by not paying them as you should, or you're stealing honor from someone by not giving it to them as they should. That's all forms of stealing. And I don't think we honor the reputation of others as we should. I think we engage in gossip and I think that we also engage in coveting. So really we're guilty. We're guilty. And that's where we're supposed to be in the catechism right now is sitting here with our guilt and crying out to God for mercy. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that you are merciful to us in our sin. We are guilty before your law. There is no escape. There is no excuse. We're condemned. Have mercy on us, we pray. In Jesus' name, Amen. Well, the other thing that we learn by learning that this is the summary of the Ten Commandments, love, love for God and love for others. It reminds us that God is love, and that the God who is love came down from heaven to earth in love to save us. So we're going to respond now. uh with a great classic hymn, Love Divine, All Loves Excelling.