In Psalm 21, which is written to the choir master, a psalm of David, O Lord, in your strength the king rejoices. And in your salvation, how greatly he exalts. You have given him his heart's desire, and have not withheld the request of his lips, Salah. For you meet him with rich blessings. You set a crown of fine gold upon his head. He asked life of you You gave it to him. Length of days forever and ever. His glory is great through your salvation. Splendor and majesty you bestow on him, for you make him most blessed forever. You make him glad with the joy of your presence. For the king trusts in the Lord. And through the steadfast love of the Most High, he shall not be moved. Your hand will find out all your enemies Your right hand will find out those who hate you. You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear. The Lord will swallow them up in his wrath, and fire will consume them You will destroy their descendants from the earth and their offspring from among the children of man, though they plan evil against you, though they devise mischief, they will not succeed. For you will put them to flight. You will aim at their faces with your bows. Be exalted, O Lord, in your strength. We will sing And praise your power. Let's pray. Oh Lord God Almighty, there is no one like you O Lord Jesus, our King and our Redeemer, speak to us. Holy Spirit, write these words on our hearts. We ask this in Jesus' name. With the Olympics being in Paris right now, it reminded me of an old saying that the only problem with going to France is that everyone there speaks French. That's an old English saying of, you know, the food might be great and the scenery might be beautiful, but, you know They all speak French there. Now it's really not the case that you have to learn French to go to France. I experienced this firsthand when I was in ninth grade. Those of you who are going into ninth grade, imagine this. When I was in ninth grade and I was taking French one in school, we lived in Germany at the time and we went on a family vacation. That included going over to Paris, which is only about a five-hour drive from where we lived, and we spent a couple of days there. I was the only person in my family who spoke any French At 14 years old, having had part of a year of French. And so it was like, okay, you're going to speak the French for us. And they were not super accommodating. I would say, parlez-vous anglais? And they would say, no. Je parle français. I was like, okay. Um then and then we went back More recently, although it was still a while ago, 19 years ago, Beth and I got a chance to go uh to Paris and I would start in with my French. And as soon as they figured out that I was a clumsy American who was butchering their language, they would just switch to English and speak English to me. I was like, wow, this has changed quite a bit. But if you go to a foreign place Even if you want to be there, and even if everything there is attractive to you, it can be hard if you don't speak the language. You can feel out of place. You can feel like you're missing out on things. You can get lost and not know where you are. And I think we have a similar barrier at times when we read the Bible. Even though it's going to translated into English for us, there are bits of cultural language that are in the Bible that are very foreign to us. And one of these cultural realities that we encounter that requires some translation and some interpretation so we can get it is the theme of kingship. Especially in the Psalms. You're dealing with the king a lot in the Psalms. And we don't have kings here in America. I know some people in America are still obsessed with the British royal family, but like we cut ourselves off from that like almost 250 years ago. So that's they're not our royalty. Um and haven't been for a while. long time. So we don't have kings. And so we don't get the whole function of kings. Even today in Great Britain, the king is not really the king. I mean, sure he's the king, he's the head of state. People let him think that. He shows up fancy dressed and does ceremonial things, but he has no real power and when Great Britain goes to war, it's not King Charles who's going to be like leading the charge and swinging his sword at the bad guys and Conquering the day. But back in the ancient world, when these Psalms were written, David the King was the warrior king. He was the champion of the people of Israel. We're here in Psalm 21, which really is a pair together with Psalm 20, which Sean preached last week. Last week in Psalm 20 You had a prayer for the king that he would have victory. May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble. May the name of the God of Jacob Protect you. May he send you help from the sanctuary. So you're praying for the king to have victory. Well, now in Psalm 21, the king has won the victory. And so there's great rejoicing and thanksgiving in the victory of the king, and then there's the implications of what that victory means for the king and the people. of the King. These are both written by David. They both have the same title to the choir master, a psalm of David. They're put together in the Psalter. One is before a battle, the other is after a battle. It makes sense that they were probably written together. We don't know when, but apparently they were written at a time when David as king was facing a great battle before and after This victory. We do know that early in David's reign, right after he was crowned as king of all of Israel following a brief civil war, the Philistines came up and they were determined to David, who was now the king, and there were two great battles that are laid out in 2 Samuel 5. And these battles were vital for establishing David's reign. And subduing the Philistines who had oppressed God's people for years. So it may have been those battles, but we don't know. And it's not super important that we know where in David's life this comes from, because ultimately Psalm 21 is not about David. And the language is clear that David, who wrote this, It's funny that he wrote it about himself in the third person, but no more funny that he wrote Psalm 20 about himself in the second person. So we can see if you look, for example, in verses 4 through 6, the answer that God gives to the king Is an answer that is far greater than any answer that David received about any battle that he ever faced. Verse 4, he asked life of you, and you gave it to him, length of days, forever and ever. His glory is great through your salvation, splendor, and majesty you bestow on him, for you make him most blessed forever. You make him glad with the joy of your presence. We see that word forever twice in those three verses. Length of days forever, and most blessed forever. Well, as Peter proclaimed at Pentecost in Acts chapter 2, he said, Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the Patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. So these words are not true about David in their fullest sense. But Hebrews 5 tells us of Jesus in the days of his flesh. Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. So Jesus asked life of his father to be saved from death, and he was heard, and he was given length of days forever and ever Jesus rose again from the dead 2,000 years ago, and he is still most blessed of all human beings who have ever lived. Jesus, the man Christ Jesus, is the most blessed. He is in the presence of God, in the joy of his Father, and he reigns forever and ever. And so Psalm 21 is really about Jesus. So let's look at it through that lens, because that's what I think the Holy Spirit intends. Go back to the beginning. O Lord, in your strength the King rejoices, and in your salvation how greatly he exalts. You have given him his heart's desire. You've not withheld the request of his lips, for you meet him with rich blessings. You set a crown of fine gold upon his head. So what was the battle that Jesus faced? And how is it that he did so in the strength of the Lord, Yahweh? How is it that the Lord saved him Well, Jesus' battle was the battle of his life. And it was for us. For us, Jesus came from heaven to earth. He stepped onto the battlefield, really, from the moment that he was conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary Because that meant scorn and ridicule for Mary being socially ostracized. It also meant a difficult journey to Bethlehem where he was born. And immediately after he was born, the king was out to get him, was trying to take his life from him. But Joseph was warned in a dream and they escaped to Egypt, and so his life was spared. But Jesus' entire life was a battle. It was a battle against sin, against Satan, against death. And he fought it for us and for our salvation. Because the inheritance of God, his people, had sold themselves into slavery And they needed to be one back. Adam and Eve at the very beginning, what do they do? God creates them, God puts them in the garden, God surrounds them. them with lush paradise. God gives them to each other. They delight in each other. But then very, very soon afterwards, we don't know how long, but I don't think it was very long, they said, oh, look at this This one tree that God told us we can't have. And they sold themselves into slavery, to sin and death, and the tyrannical reign of the devil, all for a bite of forbidden fruit. That took all of God's people into a captivity to sin and death that dominates the world to this day. Jesus said everyone who sins is a slave to sin, and the Bible says that the wages of sin is death. And so the old saying is that there are only two inevitable things in life, right? They're death and taxes. And sometimes I joke and I say, well, there's a whole lot of people who get away without paying taxes. But the actually the two realities are sin and death. Everybody sins and everybody die dies. And that's that curse from Adam and Eve that are still hanging over the human race thousands and thousands of years later. And that's the battle that Jesus came to fought. He came to fight to get us back. To get us back out of sin, out of death, out of slavery, out of judgment. And to do so required a lifetime of perfect obedience. to his father. He had to fulfill all righteousness for us. We're in the midst of doing membership interviews, talking to people who Want to become communicant members of the church or members of the church. And we're talking to them and we're asking them to share their testimony with us, and we're also asking them to share some of their understanding of the gospel with us. And this is so predictable. I say this in the new member class, in the inquirer's class, and still it happens 95% of the time, when we ask, what did Jesus do to save you? The answer, very clear, very true, very simple, and also very incomplete, is he died for my sin. That is true. Amen. Christ died for our sins. But then why wouldn't he just pop down from heaven, die on a cross, and then be done with the whole thing? Why come into the world 30 years, 33 years prior to that? Why live an entire lifetime? Because he had to fulfill all righteousness. He had to fight the devil for us. He had to go through worse than what Adam and Eve went through, and he had to pass that test. He had to live the life that we're required to live that we can't live. Because we are required to live that life. But we can't do it. And so Jesus spent 40 days fasting in the desert wilderness until he was at his physically weakest point. And then Satan came at him personally and powerfully and said, Ah, if you're the Son of God, turn this stone into bread. Jesus needed to have memorized God's word. He needed to have hidden it in his heart so that he would have it ready as the sword of the Spirit to counter the attacks of the enemy. And he said, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone. So Jesus fought for us and for our salvation. And he did so In the power and strength that God supplied to him. We don't think about that because we think, well, Jesus is God. Yes, he is God. But as a man. As the man Christ Jesus, he had to be anointed by the power of the Holy Spirit at his baptism. to empower him to face the temptations. That's why he had to be baptized, and the Holy Spirit had to come down and rest upon him. And God the Father spoke from heaven and said, This is my beloved Son. with whom I am well pleased, so that he could go out into the desert wilderness in the power of the Holy Spirit and face those temptations. We sometimes think that the great miracles that Jesus did and the great ministry that he fulfilled was all to prove that he was God. And there is a level at which, of course, he is proving That he has the power of God. But he was actually doing so as a man, and in his human nature, he was fully dependent upon the power of God in the presence of the Holy Spirit. And so he never stopped being God, but he set aside the privileges and he humbled himself to become obedient as a man. And as a true human being, he fulfilled a true human righteousness and faced battles as a man for us. Peter made this pretty clear in Acts 10 when he's giving the gospel to the household of Cornelius the centurion, the first Gentile to come to Christ. He tells Cornelius and his household, you yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed of the devil, for God was with him. God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, and he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed of the devil, for God was with him. And so, O Lord, in your strength the king rejoices. That is the life of Jesus. He walked in the Jesus himself said this when he came back from the desert wilderness and he began his earthly ministry. He did so in the synagogue at Nazareth where he had been brought up And he read from the scroll of Isaiah, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, and to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And then he rolled up the scroll and he set it down and he said, Today this has been fulfilled in your hearing. Because he had been anointed by the Holy Spirit, and he was now proclaiming good news to the poor. When Jesus was at his weakest and most exhausted in the desert at the end of the temptations, and then later in the Garden of Gethsemane, were told that angels came and ministered to him. Jesus got tired. Did you know that? He got exhausted. He slept. He got thirsty. He got hungry. He was a man. He remains a man. Glorified, resurrected. He is now in his human nature what we will be when he comes again, because he did it all for us. He's the firstborn from the dead. He's the first fruits of the resurrection. He's the captain of our salvation. He's the one who did it to get us. For himself and for the Father, he won the victory in our place. And so, whenever we overlook the true humanity of Jesus, whenever we just read the Gospels and say, oh, that just shows that he was God, we're missing what he's doing. He's going to war. Against the powers of darkness for us and for our salvation. So that we could have a kingdom to belong to, a righteousness to receive, and life to live. He did it for us. The heart of this psalm is verse 7. Hopefully you know this by now. You look at the beginning. O Lord, in your strength, the King rejoices. You look at the end, be exalted, O Lord, in your strength. We will sing and praise your power. And then you go to the middle, the heart of it. For the king trusts in the Lord, and through the steadfast love of the Most High, he shall Shall not be moved. Jesus did all that He did in the strength of the Lord. We praise the Lord for the strength of Strength that he gave Jesus to win the battle for us. And in the middle, the king, Jesus, trusted in the Lord. And through the steadfast love of the Most High, he shall not fall. Jesus trusted his Father completely. He said, I've come not to do my will, but the will of him who sent me. He said, My food is to do the will of my Father. He did everything he did in faith. He lived the life of faith that we should all be living. But he did it perfectly. And he was not disappointed. His faith was well placed because the steadfast love of the Most High, it is not an act of That in the middle of the middle, of the middle of this psalm is the word Hesed. For the king trusts in the Lord, and through the Hesed of the Most High, he shall not be moved. You got six verses before that, six verses after that, and it's in the middle of that verse. Hebrew poetry is very structured. And if you can read the Psalms and Myth Shesed, you haven't read the Psalms. The steadfast love of the Lord, the heart of God for his people, is first and foremost the heart of God for his son. The heart of the Father for the Son. Listen to me. Get this. The same heart that the Father has for the Son, he has for you. Because you are in Christ. The same heart. And so Jesus trusted in the heart of his father, in the steadfast love of the Most High, and He shall not be moved. There is no moving King Jesus from his throne. He sits at the right hand of God the Father. He is coming again to judge the living and the dead. His kingdom will have no end. He is unimpeachable. He's not up for reelection in November. He is not removable from his throne. He reigns as sovereign, king of kings, and lord of lords. There's no higher throne, there's no greater name. He shall not Now that ought to lead to a very obvious question, and that question is this. What is your life anchored to? What is your life? And by that I mean the way you actually live your life. What is it anchored to? Lately I've been a little bit too fixated on the gold medal count at the Olympics. We're too behind the Chinese as of this morning. And I I am a very competitive person and I want to win. And I know we have like 20 more medals than any other country, but I want to beat the Chinese in gold medals. Right? That's what that's why you go to the Olympics. You go to the Olympics to get a gold medal. And so lately, unfortunately They check in the goal, and if we drop down, we were down like fifth or sixth, I'm like, oh come on, what are we doing? You know, and I get upset. Why? Stupid. Like this no like what does that have to do with my life or my family or my future? Nothing whatsoever, right? Or the Orioles. I won't say any more about that. But you know, these are the things that we can be tempted to, and on a more serious level, like a lot of people are anchoring their lives to what's going to happen in November. And who's going to win the election? A lot of people are anchoring their lives to the economy and the stock market, and is the Fed going to cut interest rates in September or not? And what is that going to do to The housing market or whatever, all these things, all of these things are like anchoring your life to a boat that's being tossed about on the waves just like you are. You have one boat that's being tossed on the waves, another boat being tossed on the waves, you're anchored to each other. Great, you're together now, both being tossed up and down on the waves. The anchor holds if the anchor is Christ. Because he shall not be moved In the second half of Psalm 21, the focus shifts from the fact of the king's victory and our thanksgiving for that to the effects that his victory has for his people. And our confidence in him. Every major conflict military conflict, if you study military history of wars at all. Every major war has sort of the decisive battle. But then that decisive battle is followed by sort of cleanup operations. You have to sort of pursue the enemy after the decisive battle to make sure you you You secure the victory. There have been times in history when a decisive victory was won, but then it wasn't followed up on. And the enemy just comes right back in stronger than ever and takes back over. Well, Jesus isn't that kind of king. He's not that foolish. We live right now. On this side of the decisive victory, Jesus, when he overcame sin and death in his death and resurrection, when he was seated at the right hand of God as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, he won the decisive victory. The victory has been won. When Satan comes at you, when he's attacking you, when he's planting seeds of doubt and despair and distraction He may attack, but if you are anchored in Christ, the victory has already been won. Your sins are all forgiven, your shame is all covered, your life is secure, but we are in the cleanup operation. The time when the gospel is going forward into the world with power, where God is seeking and saving the lost and bringing them in and pushing back the darkness. Your right hand will find out sorry, your hand will find out all your enemies, verse 8. Your right hand will find out those who hate you. You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear. So we come up to the second coming of Christ now, in his appearing, his parousia. The Lord will swallow them up in his wrath, and fire will consume them. You will destroy the descend their descendants from the earth, and their offspring from among the children of man. Though they plan evil against you, though they devise mischief, they will not succeed, for you will put them to flight. You will aim at their faces So where we're living right now is in verse 8. Jesus has won the victory, and his hand, the right hand of the Lord, is the Lord Jesus Christ, is finding out All of his enemies is finding out those who hate him. Two different messages here of application. And they're on either side of the most important two-letter word in the English language, and that is the word if. If you believe in Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, if he is your King, if He is your champion, And you are a citizen of His heavenly kingdom. You share in the benefits and the blessings of His victory over sin and death and hell forever. And you can look at this and you can say, even though Satan devises mischief against me, verse eleven, he will not succeed. Even though the world wants to put out the light of the gospel, they will not succeed. You can have that confidence. But if, on the other side of that if, if, you do not believe in Jesus as your Lord and Savior. If he is not your king, if he is not your champion, then you remain an enemy of God You are in rebellion against your rightful king. You are saying no to the one who created you and who has the right to rule over you. And verse 8 says, Your hand will find out all your enemies. Your right hand will find out those who hate you. King Jesus, the right hand of the Lord, finds out his enemies in one of two ways. One, he finds out his enemies by grace to save, or he finds out his enemies in judgment to condemn The Bible says that today is the day of salvation. Today is a day when the door of mercy is wide open. And if you would be found by King Jesus, if you would be saved by the right hand of the Lord, the Bible says Whoever calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. And whoever puts their hope in him will not be condemned. So turn to the Lord Jesus Say, Lord Jesus, find me out by your grace for salvation. I want to belong to you. I want you to be my king and my champion. I want to be yours forever. Just pray that simple prayer to him and mean it. And turn to him by grace and be found out for salvation. If you do that, if you confess that Jesus is Lord and you become his subject, if he becomes your king by faith, Then His grace will give you a full share in the victory. You too will belong to the kingdom that knows no end. You too will know that all of your sins are forgiven, and your shame is covered, and your place in God's family is secure. Forever because you believe in him and you belong to him. When Paul wrote to the Philippians, he reminded them of their identity and their destiny because of the victory of their king. As they face the enemies of the gospel in their day. He said this in Philippians 3:18-21. Many of whom I've often told you, and now tell you even with tears. Walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction. Their God is their belly, and they glory in their shame. With minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven And from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body To be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. The fact that we live in a world where there are many enemies of the cross of Christ, the fact that we can read Verse 19, their end is destruction, their God is their belly, they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things, and we think, wow, he's describing our culture. Yes. He is, because he's describing all human culture and rebellion against God That's nothing new. Even enemies within the church are nothing new. Paul had his enemies who were within the church working to undermine the confidence that God's people had in Christ. Many people Live in service to their carnal appetites. They glory in shameful things. They seek only earthly gains, and they're heading for destruction. But we have, we have been given a better citizenship. We serve under a better king. And we have a better destiny. And that should give us confidence. confidence. She gave us confidence to do what? To preach the gospel. To live for Jesus, lives that are unashamed of him To say to the world, Jesus is Lord. It doesn't matter what you say, what you lift up, what you Advocate who you vote for, whatever, Jesus is Lord. He is. And we can be confident that our King will accomplish all of His gospel purposes for the nations according to His sovereign will. We can be confident that our King will accomplish all of His gospel purposes for the nations according to His sovereign will. Here's what that doesn't mean. That doesn't mean that our life is going to be easy. Because, hey, we belong to the king, and he's on his throne, and he's king of kings and lord of lords. He's a higher king than all these earthly powers, therefore, they can't do anything to us. They can't separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus, but they can and they will harass us because we belong to the kingdom. So there's no promise here that we're going to win the culture war, our people will win the next election, or that all nations will become Christianized, Jesus is not promising to accomplish all of our purposes for power, glory, comfort, and acceptance in this world. The prosperity gospel is a misguided gospel, whether you're trying to apply it to your personal life and say, because I'm a child of the king, I will be healthy and wealthy and prosperous, or whether you're trying to apply it to the churches. In the world, that because we are the church of the Lord Jesus Christ, we will be triumphant in this age. No. We will be triumphant when He comes again. And until that day, he will always accomplish his purposes. His gospel is still the power of God for salvation. We are still called to make disciples out of every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. He is still keeping us personally, interceding before God for us personally, directing our lives for his glory and for our good. And we can and we must have confidence in that. But that confidence will be vindicated when the Lord appears. That's what we're told. You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear. The Lord will swallow them up in his wrath. When Paul wrote to the Colossians, he said this: If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is. Seated at the right hand of God, set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth, for you have died And your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Our glory is coming. But it is coming when Jesus comes and not before And we need to live with that. We need to live for that. We need to believe that. Now some people, okay, some people will say, oh, that's just escapism. That's you're just you're just saying you'll have your pie in the sky and the by and by and it's just escapism. You're not dealing with reality. You don't want to have to deal with reality and so you say, well, it'll all be okay when Jesus comes comes again, like, you know, sometime. But it's not escapism if it's real and if he's really coming. And we see a little bit of a taste of this in the Olympics. Because in the Olympics, do you know how hard people have to work to get to the Olympics? They have to put in thousands of hours in the gym of lifting weights and running and failing and trying again again and getting injured and recovering from that injury and watching their diet and being in peak shape, thinking about the guy who won the 10,000 meter race. He ran a 10K. He was from Uganda. Uganda won a gold medal. Yes. He won the 10K. And he ran it in twenty-six minutes and forty-three seconds. A ten K. Okay? So if you've ever timed yourself doing one lap around the track, that's 400 meters, right? You ever time yourself doing that? Okay. So he was at about 53 seconds for one lap around. But for 25 laps around, he maintained that pace of 53 seconds per lap. Sin say it, it's like how what? Do you know how hard he had to work? Do you know how much he had to watch his diet and work hard and push himself. But do you know what everyone says when they win the gold medal? What do they say? It was all worth it. They don't say, man, I wish I could have had some Krispy Kreams. No, they say it was all worth it Now, the truth is, when it comes to gold medals, sometimes afterwards they realize it wasn't really all worth it. Because the glory of even winning Olympic gold fades and sometimes fades quickly. But if they're willing to sacrifice and they're willing to put in the work and we're willing to cheer them on And congratulate them when they win a gold medal, how much more valuable will it be when we enter into the fullness of joy? Into the presence of the king at whose right hand there are pleasures forevermore, and we hear that king say to us, Well done, good and faithful servant. Enter into the joy of your master. At the end of his life, the Apostle Paul, after writing to the Philippians and the Colossians, encouraging them not to live for earthly things. He said this at the end of his life, 2 Timothy 4, for I am already being poured out as a drink offering. And the time of my departure has come. I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me The crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me. But also to all who have loved his appearing. And I don't know about you or where your heart or mind is this morning, but I want to be one of those all. All those who have loved his appearing. I want to run through the finish line into the arms of my Savior and hear him say, Well done. And I don't want the distractions of this world or the discouragements of the enemy to take my eyes off of him. He's already won the victory. He's already secured my place What about you? Are you standing secure in the victory that Christ has won? Are your eyes fixed on him as you run the race? And are you pressing to run through the finish line? If you believe that he has won the victory over your worst and eternal enemies, sin and death and hell. Then live a life of thankful confidence and say, be exalted, O Lord, in your strength. We will sing and praise your power. Let's pray. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, our God We love you because you have first loved us. I pray that everyone here would Would love you, would know you, would know your salvation, would know the confident joy of belonging to you, would know the hope that nothing in this world can shake. I pray that those of us who know you would keep our eyes fixed on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame. And is seated at your right hand that we would press on in a faithfulness sustained by the power of your Holy Spirit to the glory of your name. As we share in the Lord's table now, feed us in our spirits toward that end, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.