Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are learning more about Jesus together Here in uh day by day, and we're here in John chapter 10, not John 1. I'll go all the way back to John 1. We're in John chapter 10, week 34, day four. We're looking at the first twenty-one verses of John chapter ten, and we're asking a question because Jesus says two different things about himself in today's passage. And so we're asking, how is it that Jesus is both the door of the sheep and the? the Good Shepherd. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you for your Son, who is our Savior, who is the door for the sheep, who is the Good Shepherd. Help us to understand what this means and how we can follow him better. We pray this in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. John 10, 1-21, Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him for they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and go in and out and find pasture. The thief only comes to steal and kill and destroy I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd lays down his life for the sheep He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming, and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them He flees because he has a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, I lay down my life for the sheep, and I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice So there will be one flock, one shepherd. For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father There was again a division among the Jews because of these words. Many of them said he has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? Others said, These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? Hmm. So sheep. I don't know much about sheep, but but I have heard that keeping sheep properly contained with an electric fence is challenging. Many farmers will keep their other livestock with an electric fence, but not their sheep. One livestock expert, John Kirchhoff, was quoted in Countryside Daily saying this. A horse can get zapped at 2,000 volts and will almost never try the fence again whether it's turned on or not. 2500 volts will easily turn a cow, but you better have a good 4500 volts to even get a sheep's attention In addition, if one sheep makes it through the fence, herd mentality demands everyone else follows whether they get shocked or not. Think of lemmings throwing themselves off a cliff and you get the idea. Worst of all, it seems that both sheep and goats will try the fence daily to see if it's operating. Hmm. What does that tell us? Well, my takeaway is that sheep are kind of thick-headed, stubborn. They're slow to learn. And they follow each other blindly as a herd. And they like to test their boundaries every day. So no wonder God repeatedly calls his people sheep, because that sounds pretty familiar. Now in the ancient world, of course, horsemen herdsmen didn't have electric fences. There was no 4500 or 2500 or 2000 volts or anything. The key to a good care and survival of a sheep was often found in a good sturdy door. A door behind which you could keep them safe from predators. You can open it to lead them out to pasture, and you can open it to lead them back in for security. So both food and safety are found. really through going through this door. Now Jesus said of himself that he is the door for the sheep to enter the sheepfold and to go out and find pasture, and he's the good shepherd. who leads them to pasture and protects them from enemies. For a sheep going through the right door is critical. If a sheep goes in the wrong door, he's going to go in the wrong direction, the wrong sheep pen might even find itself heading for slaughter. Jesus is the only way for us to find shelter with God. He is the only entrance into the kingdom of God He's the only way we can find safe pasture, good pasture, not poisonous, you know, terrible places to go. How did Jesus become the door for us? Well, he laid down his life for us. And in this way, Hebrews says, we have a new and living way. into the sanctuary of God through his body, that is through his flesh. He gained us access to God through his body and his blood, through his perfect righteousness and his atoning death for our sin. But you know, Jesus is more than just a door. He gives us more than just access, safe and secure access to the presence of God. He's also the good shepherd who leads us. In ancient pastures, shepherds used the herd instinct of their sheep for their own benefit, training them to follow their voice and stick together. Once sheep knew the voice of their shepherd, they would not follow another. So the question for us is, do we know the voice of our shepherd? The best safety for us is to train our ears to know his voice. And the best way to do that is to immerse ourselves in his word A good shepherd does more, though, than just lead the sheep to pasture and water and then back to safety. He also corrects them when they go astray. He defends them from his enemies that are too fierce for them. Do we know how prone we are to wander away? And does our shepherd go after us when we wander away? Yes. Do we know how he keeps us close using his rod and his staff? His his rod is used to attack our enemies and fend them off. His staff is used to correct us and guide us in the way we should go and even drag us out of trouble that we get into. You know, Shepherd's staff has a crook on the end. The reason why it's a crook on the end is because sometimes sheep will get themselves into thorny bushes and they'll get trapped in there. And it's the k the shepherd can't really go in there, so he'll reach in with the staff and pull him out, uh often putting the crook around the neck, bringing him out by the neck. So sometimes God will bring us out of a thorny situation we've gotten ourselves in, and it'll be painful. but it is for our own good. But the more mature a sheep becomes, the more it knows its own weakness, it knows the danger of going astray, it knows the voice of its good shepherd, and it sticks close to the shepherd. Finally, a good shepherd leads a herd of sheep together. Lone sheep are easy prey It is a heavy burden to my heart to know of how many Christians there are in our culture in America who don't affiliate with any church. They call themselves Christians, maybe they even read the Bible, maybe they pray regularly, maybe they're actively trying to follow Jesus, but they're not part of any church. Lone sheep are easy prey. Lone sheep are easily left out of the feeding and the sheltering Well, the Good Shepherd will go after the lone sheep who wanders off. He finds them, he brings them back to the flock. He doesn't leave them alone. Wise sheep, if you can even speak of such a thing. Wise sheep know that sticking with a good flock that's following the voice of the shepherd is key for protection and provision. Are you part of a Bible-believing, Bible-preaching church where you go to church on Sunday morning and you hear the voice of your good shepherd together with other people who are following him with you. That is so key. You cannot really grow healthy as a Christian without that. Jesus is the door for the sheep. He's the good shepherd of the sheep. So have you entered God's sheepfold through him? And are you following his voice and turning away from the voice of strangers? Are you sticking close to his rod and staff for protection and correction when you need it? Are you remaining with his flock, not abandoning them and going off his lone sheep? He's a faithful shepherd. He will lead you safely all the way home. Let's pray. Oh gracious Heavenly Father, oh good shepherd, Lord Jesus, thank you Thank you for opening the way for us to have access to God. Thank you for leading us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. Thank you for feeding us with your word, with your very self. Thank you for correcting us when we go astray. Thank you for putting us in a flock. Where we can be together with a whole group of sheep where we belong, where we can have safety and comfort one another and help one another. May we be faithful to our good shepherd, may we be faithful to his church. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much again for joining me, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope this was helpful to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.