Psalm 15, a Psalm of David. O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart. Who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend. In whose eyes a vile person is despised, but who honors those who fear the Lord, who swears to his own hurt and does not change. Who does not put out his money at interest and does not take a bribe against the innocent? He who does these things Shall never be moved. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the truth of your word. We pray that we would receive it by faith. We pray that we would see Christ more clearly portrayed here in your word, and that our faith in Him and our dependence on Him would deepen. Through the time we spend with you this morning, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Back in 2002, Jodie Foster starred in a movie called Panic Room. And it's always surprising to me. Sometimes I use these movie things for illustrations. I look up what year it came out. I think that movie really was twenty-two years ago? Hard to believe. Anyway. So it's a movie that is All about security. And it keeps you on the edge of your seat as you're wondering. It was made at a time when when wealthy people were uh installing panic rooms or safe rooms in their houses, a place where you could be absolutely secure in case of a home invasion, you know, in the middle of your house. And so in it, Jodie Foster is locked in her panic room with her daughter while her home is invaded by these very sophisticated and determined criminals who are doing their best to either get into the room or get her to come out of the room. And it raises all sorts of questions. One of the questions it raises in my mind about this tension that we have in this life between security and freedom. You know, in this life, security is always relative. We're never absolutely secure. It's always a relative amount of security. Secure from what? Right? And for how long. And in this life, it's always a trade-off between do you want to be secure or do you want to be free? We just got done celebrating the 4th of July, Independence Day, Freedom, right? But we realize that to have some security like you lock your doors and things like that. Jodie Foster was very secure in her panic room, but she had no freedom. She couldn't leave the room. She was stuck in there with her daughter And so in this world, the more freely you move around, the more vulnerable you are, and if you want real security, you have to exchange some level of freedom for it always What we long for, though, what's deep in our soul is a longing to be completely secure, under no threat of danger, but also to be completely free. We have in our souls this human longing for security and for freedom, and we know we can't ever find it in this life. It just doesn't exist in this world. But the longing for it makes the opening question of Psalm 15 a vital question. O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? Because we know that in the presence of God, in his dwelling place, there's no reason to be afraid of anything. Nothing's going to come into the presence of God that can harm And there's also freedom and joy in the presence of God. Here David's likely thinking of the tabernacle with the Holy of Holies, but even beyond that. He's thinking of that as an earthly picture of the eternal and immediate presence of God. In Psalm 27, David writes, One thing have I asked of the Lord. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple for he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock. David has one thing he wants, one thing He says, Lord, let me dwell in your presence. Because in your presence he says, I'm going to find beauty, I'm going to find wisdom, I'm going to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord. I'm going to increase. choir in his temple, which means I'm going to find wisdom there, and I'm going to find security there. Beauty, wisdom, and security. Are found in the presence of God in fullness. And then at the end of Psalm 16, which we're going to be looking at next week, David closes that Psalm with this verse: You make known to me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. And so in the presence of the Lord, not only do we find security from harm and freedom, but we find beauty, wisdom. Pleasure, joy, eternal and unbounded. And there's no other place to find those things. We get little hints and little glimpses. You know, certainly we can see This vacation that we were on this past week uh was kind of the vacation of beautiful sunsets. Uh we got the first one driving down on Sunday. We were driving down the Shenandoah Valley and Virginia down I And just a spectacular sunset. And it just kept changing colors and it just, it was absolutely gorgeous against the mountains. And of course when you're down on a lake, sunsets over the lake are always pretty nice. And Fourth of July get to watch the sunset go down and then the fireworks start up and And then on the way back again yesterday driving home, coming through the mountains uh with the sunset. It's it's a blessing. Actually it was right when we got home in Harford County. We were coming down five forty three. Uh that sunset. I love Hartford County sunsets are among my favorite. Part of why I love living in this county. It's beautiful. But beauty. We find in this world, sure. Wisdom. We get it from the Word of God. But there's things we don't understand, and there's and there's things we don't know. We get security. The Lord is always our shepherd, and He's always watching over us, and yet we know that in this life we're vulnerable to things that we don't understand. So only in the presence of God, only when we are face to face with God, when we dwell on his holy hill, when we're home with him Well, we have all of these things, the joy, the pleasure, the beauty, the wisdom, the security, without limit, without end, in perfection. And if we know that, well then the question who can sojourn In your tent, who can dwell in your holy hill? It is a very vital question. We need to have an answer to that question. So the answer comes in verses 2 to 5. There's qualifications. Not just anybody can be in the presence of God. God is holy, holy, holy. So here's what he says. He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart. Who does not slander with his tongue, does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend. In whose eyes a vile person is despised, but who honors those who fear the Lord, who swears to his own hurt and does not change, who does not put out his money at interest, and does not take a bribe against the innocent. Let's break that down a little bit. He who walks blamelessly and does what is right. If you walk blamelessly, that means nothing that you do. Could be held against you. You can't be blamed, blameless. That means you don't do anything wrong. But it's more than just I don't do anything wrong. It's also Does what is right. This means this person who's qualified to stand before the presence of God is free from all sins of commission. That means they don't do the things that they could be blamed for doing. Lying, cheating, stealing, harming. But they also don't leave undone the right that they're supposed to do. They do what God requires. They do what's right. But it's more than just outward, because the second line says speaks truth in his heart. Outward behavior is not enough. God sees our hearts just as surely as he sees our outward behavior. Jesus confronted the external righteousness of the Pharisees, who were very meticulous in making sure they never did anything that they could be blamed for. And that they were always trying to fulfill all the righteous requirements of the law, all the six hundred and some commandments that were in the Old Testament, which then they added to by creating fences around the law. So they had thousands of rules that they followed and they were meticulous. The Apostle Paul, who had been a good Pharisee, he said, as to the righteousness under the law, I was blameless. Again, they were striving after this Psalm 15 blamelessness with their external conformity to the law. But Jesus confronted them that that's not good enough. In Matthew 15, Jesus called the people to himself and he said to them, Hear and understand. It's not what goes into a person. Into the mouth that defiles a person, but what comes out of the mouth, this defiles a person. And then the disciples came and said to him, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying? He answered, Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be rooted up. Let them alone. They are blind guides. And if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into a pit But Peter said to him, Explain the parable to us. And he said, Are you also still without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is expelled? But what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart, and this defiles a person For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. These are what defile a person. I love the way the disciples approach Jesus here. Jesus says this thing, he says it for everybody. He says, hey, it's not what goes into a person that defiles him, but what comes out of a person Now, you have to understand that to a first century Jewish mindset, this is just this is blowing the mind. It's like, wait a minute, wait a minute. We have all these dietary laws, we've been keeping them for hundreds of years. Clean and unclean, eat this, don't eat this. What do you mean it's not what goes into us that defiles us, but what comes out of us? But I think it's interesting the disciples, they don't want to just ask Jesus directly. We don't understand what you're talking about, Jesus. So they say, did you know the Pharisees are offended by what you said? And then only when Jesus is like, don't worry about those guys. The blind lead the blind, they both fall into a pit. Then they say, Okay, can you explain it to us? We don't get it either. And so Jesus tells them Whatever you eat just passes through your body. It doesn't touch your heart, and it's your heart that's the problem. Because it's from the heart that come evil thoughts and murder and adultery and sexual immorality. That's why in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus focused on the inner spiritual meaning of the law of God. He said It's not enough to say I've never committed adultery with a woman. If you lust after her in your heart, then you've already committed adultery with her. It's not enough to say I've never murdered somebody. If you hate them in your heart, you've murdered them in your heart. And so here you have to speak the truth in your heart to be qualified to stand before God. It's so easy to fool ourselves into thinking that we have a respectable outward righteousness. We are good, honest people. We pay our taxes. We obey the law most of the time. You know, we're we're hard working most of the time. We're we're good people. But God sees our hearts. And he says we have to speak the truth in our hearts if we really want Him to look at us and say that we are qualified. Next. Verse 3 focuses primarily on the tongue. Who does not slander with his tongue, does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend. James 3 says that the tongue is a restless evil among the members of the body which no one can tame. And yet the qualified person is righteous in his speech, as well as in the thoughts of the heart, and in his actions. Thought, word, and deed. The righteous person who's qualified is righteous in all of these ways. The ninth commandment specifically forbids bearing false witness against our neighbor. And here the righteousness of the qualified person is seen especially in the fact that they do not slander with their tongue or do evil to his neighbor, probably referring to the evil that might be done with your tongue, gossip. Or lift up a reproach against a friend. One of the most common, widespread, respectable sins among good Christian people is gossip. Now most of the time when we're engaging in it, we don't even think about it as gossip. We think about it as being concerned. and expressing our concerns, sharing our concerns Jesus teaches us that it's out of the overflow of the heart that the mouth speaks in Luke 6. It starts in the heart with this, I think. And that is we see something in someone. We hear them say something, we see them do something, and we don't really understand why they're doing that Why would that person say that to me? Or about me? Why would they do that? Now, we often fill in the gaps by assuming motives And unfortunately, our hearts are such that we often assume bad motives for people. Oh, he didn't say hi to me, because he's mad at me. He doesn't like me. Maybe he didn't see you. Maybe he's thinking about something else. Maybe maybe it has nothing to do with you whatsoever. Right? It's like that whole middle school thing, like, you know, you walk into the room and two people are laughing and you automatically assume they're laughing at you. Right? And and we outgrow that, but not really. Because we still act that way. And sometimes we'll go and talk to somebody else because we want to sort of confirm whether is it just me or have you noticed that so-and-so is acting such and such lately? Oh yeah, I've noticed the same thing. Somehow thinking that if we check with this person about our concern, we'll have it confirmed. Well What we don't do is what Jesus tells us to do and what we would want someone else to do for us, and that is we don't go to the person and say, Hey, are you okay? Do you have something on your mind? Why? Well, because I walked past you and you didn't say hi. Oh, I'm sorry. You're right. I'm thinking about, oh, okay. Well let me pray for you. We don't go to them. We go to others about them. And it's exactly what we would not want someone doing about us, and yet we do it all the time. And I think we're all guilty of it from time to time. It's something that we all have to own up to. James 3 says that no one can tame the tongue. We will gossip and we will slander without even realizing that that's what we're doing. Verse 4 actually leads us in a surprising direction, but if someone loves the Lord and loves the truth of God in their heart, and is walking according to God's ways, then a vile person is despised and honors those who fear the Lord. A vile person here is describing someone who utterly rejects God's commandments and God's righteousness. Standards. It's not someone who doesn't know the Lord or doesn't know about the Lord. It is someone who knows the Word of God and despises it. In our daily devotions in Jeremiah, come to a chapter where King Jehoiakim is having the prophecies of Jeremiah read to him. That call for repentance, that call for, you know, turning to God because judgment's coming. And King Jehoiakim has them read the scroll of Jeremiah's prophecies to him. And then every three or four columns that are read, he cuts it off and he throws it into the fire. This is not someone who's ignorant of the word of God. This is someone who hears the word of God, despises it in their heart, and burns it. That is what the Bible is describing here as a vile person, a person who knows the truth and hates it. But if you fear the Lord, then others who fear the Lord are honored in your eyes. And then the last line of verse 4 says, who swears to his own hurt and does not change. This is very much reflecting God. You see, when God makes a covenant promise, he keeps it. No matter what it costs him. Even when it cost his own son, his one and only son, in order to keep his covenant promises to his people, he kept it. To his own hurt? Yes, to the most grievous hurt that you could ever imagine Giving up your one and only son to offer up his life to be sin for us. Verse 5 touches on attitudes regarding money. He does not put out his money at interest, he does not take a bribe against the innocent. Put out money at interest. This is, you know, very common in our culture. Our whole culture kind of runs on it. But what's wrong with it is the idea that I see someone who's in need, I see someone who's in financial hardship, and my immediate thought is how can I profit from this? That's what's really wrong with it. Oh man, so-and-so has fallen on hard times. They don't have enough money to plant their crops. If they can't plant their crops, their family's gonna starve. How can I make money off of that? That's why it's wrong. Because it's not how can I help you? How can I how can I walk with you through this? How can I come alongside you? It's wait a minute. There's a buck to be made here Does not take a bribe against the innocent. The law of God required two to three eyewitnesses for convicting someone of a crime. And we saw this with uh Jezebel and Ahab and Naboth's vineyard, but what would sometimes be done is if you wanted to bring false charges against someone, there were people whose testimony could be bought. And so take a bribe against the innocent is being willing for enough money to bear false witness against your neighbor and corrupt justice. In summary, the qualified person, the one who's qualified to stand in the presence of God, authentically reflects the character of God in all of his actions, all of his thoughts, all of his words. in his estimation of others, in his use of his uh words, in his use of his money, in everything. He's someone who loves God and who reflects God in his life. For this person, for this person. God makes a promise in the very last line of Psalm 15, he who does these things shall never be moved. The person who meets the qualifications of Psalm 15 is promised to have access to the presence of God and never be moved from there. They can sojourn in his tent, they can dwell on his holy hill and never be moved. That's what we want. And so we have to ask ourselves, are we qualified? We just heard the qualifications. Do we measure up? No. I hope we have enough humility to recognize that, right? We don't measure up. You know the Psalms are in the order that they are in the Bible for a reason. They weren't just sort of thrown together. Psalm 14 that we looked at last week declares very clearly that there is no one righteous, not even one And it's very clear in that. We looked at that last week. And you might respond, it's human nature to respond and say, wait a minute, wait a minute, but I'm a good person. And so God gives us Psalm 15 to say, oh yeah? Okay, let me lay out the qualifications for you. And we have to be honest enough before God and with ourselves to say I'm not qualified. The one place I need to be, I must be in the presence of God. It's fullness of joy. It's pleasures forevermore. It's beauty. It's wisdom. It's freedom. It's security. I must be in the presence of God and I don't. qualify. The good news Is that Psalm 15 is describing a real person? There is the He who fulfills Psalm 15. And it's not you, and it's not me. There was a man, one man Came into the world a thousand years after David wrote this portrait in Psalm 15 and who fulfilled it perfectly. was a man whose last words were, Into your hands I commit my spirit, and who shortly before that was able to look at a thief dying, a deserved punishment On a cross next to him and say, I tell you, this day you will be with me in paradise. This man was not only qualified to be able to be in the presence of God forever, but so qualified by his death that he could look at a thief. Someone who's the exact opposite of this portrait of Psalm 15. Look at that thief and say, Today you will be with me in paradise. It's such good news that the one man who fulfilled Psalm 15, the one man who this is a perfect portrait of chose in love to go to that cross and take the place that we deserve And take all of our sin, all of our shortcoming, all of our unrighteousness upon himself, and give us his righteousness in exchange. So that not only is he qualified to sit at the right hand of God the Father Almighty forever, but to also grant us access to the same place. Hebrews 4. 15 says, we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. And the next chapter in Hebrews 5 says, although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered, and being made perfect, He became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. Jesus endured every temptation. He was tempted in the flesh when he was told, oh, just turn this stone into bread. He was tempted with covetousness. When he was shown all the kingdoms of the world and all their wealth, and he was told, I'll give you all these things if you just bow down and worship me. He was tempted with pride. When he was told, oh just throw yourself down from the pinnacle of the temple and angels will rescue you. He was tempted with cowardice When in the Garden of Gethsemane he was under this agony of, am I going to go through with this commitment that I've made? I've sworn to my own hurt, am I going to change? Am I not going to change? Am I going to go through with it? And he was in such agony that he sweat drops of blood as Satan was tempting him. Don't go through with it. You don't need to go to the cross. Jesus was tempted in every way, just as we are, yet without sin. He learned obedience through what he suffered, and being made perfect, became the source of eternal salvation. For all who obey him. And what does it mean to obey him? Well, what does Jesus call us to do? Come unto me. All you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am meek and humble in heart, and you will find rest unto your Jesus said, anyone who looks to the Son of Man and believes in Him will have eternal life. We obey Him by coming to Him for the salvation that He alone is qualified to give us Jesus completed the work the Father gave him. He fulfilled Psalm 15. He is qualified. He is in the presence of the Father. But by offering himself as a sacrifice for sin in our place, he cleanses us of all of our sin, and by his continual intercession at the right hand of the Father, He never stops praying for us that we will not be lost, but that we will make it home. to be with him forever. And because Jesus is our qualifying righteousness and not we ourselves, we can say with Romans 8. 1, there is therefore now no condemnation. For those who are in Christ Jesus. We can freely confess, yes, I am not righteous. Psalm 14 is correct. And no, I do not measure up to the standard of Psalm 15, but Jesus is my righteousness And I have everything I need. Not only is Jesus our righteousness so that we can be right before God, we call that justification. We're not guilty, we're not condemned. We have the right to be with God. But he's also our righteousness in our sanctification. First Corinthians. 130 says, Because of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness, and sanctification and redemption. So that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. We are in Christ Jesus by God's grace through faith. Because of him, we are in Christ Jesus. And if we are in Christ Jesus, he has become to us four things: wisdom from God, righteousness, that is our justification. Sanctification and redemption that is being bought back out of slavery and condemnation. So, what is our wisdom from God? What is our wisdom from God? Only Jesus and not ourselves. What is our justification before God? Only Jesus and not ourselves. What is our sanctification, our growth in holiness and obedience? Only Jesus And not ourselves. And what is our redemption from condemnation and slavery? Only Jesus. And not ourselves So many Christians get off base when they say, well, Jesus died for my sins so that I can be forgiven. But now I need to follow him because I need to be obedient if I'm going to make it home. The first thing is a contradiction to the second thing. Do you need to keep trusting Jesus? Yes. Do you need to keep following him? Yes. But guess what? That's not your work either. That's his work in you. Do we cooperate in that work? Absolutely, we cooperate in that work. But he is the guarantee. That we will not be lost. He is our surety. The Apostle Paul dealt with this with the Galatians And he writes to them in Galatians 3, O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Are you so foolish, having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? The Galatians fell into the same trap that so many Christians fall into. We're going to begin by the Spirit, we're going to begin by grace, we're going to begin by trusting in Jesus, but then we're going to act like it all depends on us. and beat ourselves up with guilt and shame and just keep trying. Christ in you is the hope of glory from beginning to end. Christ in you is your righteousness, the only righteousness that you have or ever will have. For your justification and for your sanctification, the Spirit works in us and we respond to the Spirit. So in that, conclude by saying that Psalm 15 gives us two pictures, two beautiful pictures. One is a picture of who Jesus is. Jesus is. The one who walks blamelessly and does what is right, who speaks the truth in his heart, who does not slander, who does no evil. He doesn't take up a reproach against his friend, and he calls us his friends. Swears to his own hurt and doesn't change. He does despise the vile persons who hate his word, but he honors those who by grace fear the Lord. This is a picture of Jesus. And that is comforting to us because if Jesus has made promise to you, he will keep it. He will not break it. And if you are his friend, Jesus is for you, and he will never turn against you. He will never betray you. He himself was betrayed, but he will never betray you. But the second thing it is, is it is a portrait of what the Holy Spirit is making us look more and more like As long as we remember that it is the work of the Holy Spirit that we cooperate with, then we can see this as the picture of what we should be. Of what Christ in us is, and of what the Holy Spirit is making of us. And so we can come back to it and think of ourselves and think, I fall short of this. But I know that Christ is my righteousness, and I believe the Holy Spirit is making me more like this, and so we can pray, Lord, help me to walk blamelessly and to do what is right. Help me by grace to s Speak the truth in my heart, so that is what comes out of my lips. Lord, give me the grace To never slander anyone with my tongue, to not do evil to my neighbor, to not take up a reproach against a friend. Lord, may I Honor those who fear the Lord and not those who hate you. May I make promises and keep them even to my own hurt. Let me just say a word about that. If you're married, this is your prime opportunity to do this. Lord, I made vows. I swore, for better or worse, sickness and health, good times, bad times, to love, honor, and cherish till death to us part. It hurts. This hurts. This is hard. Give me the grace to keep my promise, just as Christ kept his promise for me. Now, we don't do so thinking that our hope of heaven is that somehow before we die we're going to measure up to Psalm 15 and pass the test to get in. That's not the point. Christ is our righteousness from beginning to end. But if Christ is our righteousness, we want to look more like Jesus. We want to represent Christ to the world around us. We want to be more Christ-like. And so we can pray Psalm 15, thankful that it's fulfilled in Jesus, and praying that the Spirit would apply it to our hearts. If you believe in Jesus, He is your righteousness, He is your redemption, He is your hope for eternal salvation, and the good news is that one day When you are in the presence of God, when you are completely free and full of joy and beholding the beauty of the Lord, You will, by grace, because of the righteousness of Jesus, you too will perfectly match the portrait of Psalm 15. That's what God will do in us, on our glorification. And so if we know that's where we're heading, and we know that's what Jesus did for us, and what the Holy Spirit is doing in us, We can cooperate with that work and pray that today we would look a little bit more like this than we did yesterday, and that tomorrow a little bit more until we're face to face with Him Never afraid because we don't measure up. Always freely confessing when we fall short, which we do all the time, with a joyful and humble confidence that Christ in us. Will bring us all the way home. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your Son who is our righteousness. Jesus, thank you for taking all of our sins on yourself, for cleansing us thoroughly, for making us holy, for making us perfect forever by your once-for-all sacrifice. The Holy Spirit, you are making us holy day by day. You are conforming us to the likeness of Christ. We see the likeness of Christ here in Psalm 15. We want to live more like Psalm 15. So we pray that your grace would never stop working to make us more like Jesus. Until the portrait is complete, knock off all the sin that clings so closely, round off the rough edges of selfishness and pettiness. Strengthen the growing righteousness that you've put in us in Christ, that we might reflect Him more and more to one another within your church and to the world watching around us. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen