Isaiah 44 is our passage for today. Isaiah 44 verses 21 to 28 And we're wrapping up Isaiah 44 this week and next week. Mike Talercio is going to be bringing us Isaiah 45. Which I am thankful for him being willing to do that, so then I've when I'm away at this missionary conference, I don't have to be worrying about writing a sermon and going to a conference which is So, God's word, Isaiah 44, verses 21 to 28. Remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel, for you are my servant. I formed you. You are my servant. O Israel, you will not be forgotten by me. I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud. And your sins like mist. Return to me, for I have redeemed you Sing, O heavens, for the Lord has done it. Shout, O depths of the earth, break forth into singing, O mountains, O forests, and every tree in it, for the Lord has redeemed Jacob. And will be glorified in Israel. Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, who formed you from the womb. I am the Lord who made all things who alone stretched out the heavens, who spread out the earth by myself, who frustrates the signs of liars, and makes fools of diviners. Who turns wise men back and makes their knowledge foolish, who confirms the word of his servant and fulfills the counsel of his messengers. Who says, Of Jerusalem, she shall be inhabited, and of the cities of Judah, they shall be built, and I will raise up their ruins. Who says, of the deep, be dry. I will dry up your rivers. Who says of Cyrus, he is my shepherd? And he shall fulfill all my purpose, saying, of Jerusalem, she shall be built, and of the temple, your foundation shall be laid. Heavenly Father, this is your word, and we are your people who need to hear from you. We are not here. To hear the words of a man. We are here together gathers to hear you speak to each one of us. So speak, Lord. May your servants listen And may your word find good soil in our hearts, and may it bring forth fruit that brings you glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So you hear the passage, and now you know I'm not really clever in coming up with the theme for today's worship service. We have three stanzas of our passage today. The first stanza ends with, return to me, for I have redeemed you. The second stanza ends with, For the Lord has redeemed Jacob and will be glorified in Israel. And then the third stanza opens with, Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer. Who formed you from the womb. So the theme of the passage is pretty obvious. Sometimes God puts things right out there for us so that we can get a hold of them. He is our Redeemer. Which means he has come to the rescue and he has paid the price to deliver us from bondage, from slavery, from death. This has been uh an impactful hurricane season for our country. Um I'm sure you've seen the footage, especially that coming out of Western North Carolina, but also in Florida and other parts of the Appalachian Mountains. Hurricane Helene and Hurricane Milton have spread devastation widely to so many communities and lives. The truth is that we live in a world where disaster strikes quite frequently. Sometimes it's it's natural and sometimes it's man-made, like what they're dealing with in Haiti or what they're dealing with in Sudan. Which you don't hear about on the news as much, but we get updates regularly from our friends in Africa about the ongoing civil war in Sudan. Such disasters and devastation being a part of our world, things like cancer and things like hurricanes and things like civil wars have caused some people to say. God's not real. At least not the God of the Bible. How can there be a God who is all good and all powerful and we have all this stuff going on in the world? But the God of the Bible is the one who gives us the best explanation for what's happening. And that is that we live in a creation that is under a curse. Ever since Adam and Eve sinned and rebelled against God, those who were put in charge of creation as vice-regents were led a rebellion against the God who made them. and and chose to serve a creature by obeying a serpent instead of to serve the Lord God who made them. And ever since then the world has been under a curse. But the good news is that God has paid the price. Though we deserve judgment, though we deserve to be completely wiped out, God has paid the price. God has paid the price to set us free from all the futility, all the frustration, all the heartache, all the devastation. You know, when disaster strikes, like a hurricane coming, sometimes you can see it coming a long way away, and sometimes the most frustrating people to deal with are the people who just don't listen. You've probably seen some news coverage of people who just didn't listen. Get out! Evacuate! There's a hurricane coming. Oh, we'll be alright. I've been through plenty of hurricanes. No, this is a big one. It's really coming. You need to get out. I'll be okay. And then you see them on the roof of their house needing to be rescued, and someone's got to go in. in life-threatening situation and rescue them. And we do because we care about human life. Going through Isaiah, like we've been in Isaiah for a while, the disaster of the conquest of Babylon was coming for a long time, and God had told his people for a long time what was coming. And what they need to do, and they're like, oh, we'll be alright. Egypt will bail us out. Oh, they didn't show up, oh, we'll be alright, until they knew they weren't going to be alright. And then they said. Well where's God? Isn't that how people are? But God was committed to his people. He had pledged his steadfast love to them. They were his, and he's a faithful God. So even before he sent his people into exile, here we are. 150 years or so before this exile is a reality, or at least 100 years before it begins to become a reality, and Isaiah is prophesying the rebuilding of Jerusalem. She shall be built, and the temple, your foundation shall be laid. God is pledging Even as his people are saying, I don't have to listen to you, I don't have to listen to you. It's like a little kid. You know, it's like, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah Even as his people are being rebellious and childish and so foolish as to make gods out of wood and bow down before them, he's saying, Yeah, this is coming because you won't listen. But I remain your Redeemer. I remain the God who made you and the God who loves you, and I will In fact, I'll even give you the name of the guy who's going to lead you back or let you come back, Cyrus. Who's Cyrus? Don't worry. He hasn't been born yet. 170 years from now, everybody will know who he is. I'll let Mike do. That's my last mention of Cyrus today, I promise, Mike. So he makes this promise because he wants his people when the time comes to remember. That's the opening word of today's passage, to remember. And to return. God gives us the same call today. On the basis of an even greater rescue, by the hands of an even greater Redeemer Shepherd. So we begin in verses 21 and 22. God's calling his people to remember. Remember these things, O Jacob. Jacob and Israel, for you are my servant. I formed you, you are my servant. O Israel, you will not be forgotten by me? I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud. And you Your sins like mist return to me, for I have redeemed you. Remember In the Bible, the call to remember is never just a call to like bring back into your mind some fact that was forgotten. It's not like, oh, it's your birthday. That's right, I forgot. Happy birthday. It's not that kind of remembering. It is a covenantal word that really talks about returning And worshiping. To remember is to say, right, I had forgotten Who God was and what he had done for me. Not that we weren't aware of it. Right? You're in the midst of a trial, in the midst of a crisis, in the midst of a difficult situation. And you get anxious and you panic and you worry and you fear for the future. It's not that if someone were to come to you and say, Tell me the attributes of God and tell me the gospel. It's not that you would say, I have no idea what you're talking about. I've completely forgotten about that. No, but we have completely forgotten about it. Because we're not taking what we know to be true and connecting it and applying it with what we're going through. And so to remember is to connect. And in that connecting, turn to God and worship. Say, you are the Lord. You made us. You bought us. You are the Lord. Even in calling his people to remember, he uses two names for them that are very important. He says, remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel. Remember that story? Jacob, well that's the birth name of the patriarch, twin of Esau. It's a name that means the usurper. He who grasps by the heel. Because he came out grasping his brother's heel and then he usurped him. Took his birthright. He's the usurper, the deceiver, the one who trips up. But then God showed up and wrestled with Jacob all night long. And changed his name from Jacob to Israel. Israel, the one who wrestles with God. A name of a persevering man. Not a trickster, but one who perseveres. How did he become one who perseveres? Because God persevered with him. Because God condescended to him and took hold of him and changed him. That's the only way any of us ever changed. The only way any of us ever change if is God condescends to us, takes hold of us, and changes us. And that's what he had done for his people. So he says, Oh Jacob and Israel, that's you You're still Jacob, but you're also still Israel. That's all of us. We're all still Jacob, but we're all Israel. We're all still the deceivers. Sometimes the person we deceive most is ourselves. We're still tricksters. We still have that old nature, but we are Israel. We are loved by God so much that He condescended and took hold of us and changed us. And what he's done is he's given us a new identity. My servant, you are my servant. I formed you, you are my servant. Twice he says it, you are my servant. That might not seem like a great honor. I'm sure most of you when you were growing up, wondering what you want to be when you grow up, you probably didn't say I want to be, I wanna really wanna be be a servant. If I could go be a servant somewhere, that would be great. Probably not. But remember last week, in their idolatry, the people of God were already servants, but they were serving things that they had made. Everybody serves somebody or something. Everybody lives for someone or something. So how foolish it is to serve created things when you could have the privilege of serving your creator. And just to drive home, what a privilege it is to be able to serve the Creator. We already had the first servant song in Isaiah 42, the first of four servant songs that are focused on Jesus. Jesus is celebrated four times for being a faithful servant. And if the Son of God The creator of the universe could be celebrated for being a faithful servant. How much more should we be thankful to have that title. How much more should we strive to want to be like Christ and to be a faithful servant? That's why the Apostle Paul's favorite title, yes, he was an apostle, yes, he was an elder Yes, he was an evangelist. Yes, he was a preacher. But the Apostle Paul's favorite title for himself was a slave of Jesus. I am a slave of Christ Jesus. I am a servant of Jesus Christ. Freedom We all serve somebody. Freedom comes in serving the one who made us and who has set us free. He has redeemed us. We don't yet get a description of exactly the fullness of this redemption. But we know that he's talking about more than just a return from exile Because in verse 22, when he says, Return to me, for I have redeemed you, before that he says, I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud. and your sins like mist. In dry environments of the world, such as the Middle East, least. In the morning, there can often be a fog, a thick cloud that hangs over everything, and it looks like It might bring rain. It looks like it might just be a foggy, cloudy day. Sometimes we get it here with that dense morning fog. You look out and you can't even see your car from the house. But when the sun comes up and the heat gets going, all of that burns away, and you look out a few hours later and it's gone. That's what God does with our sins. They're real. They lie heavy upon our conscience, but He says, blotted them out. They're like that morning fog. They're like that early morning cloud. They're like that mist. They're gone. How has he done this? Well, we have to get to the New Testament to get the full story of how he's done it, although Isaiah himself will sing that in In the final servant song about Jesus in Isaiah 53. But in 1 Peter, Peter tells us about it. He says, you were ransomed. From the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. Like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of you, who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead. and gave him glory so that your faith and hope are in God. In in Isaiah the Lord says, I have redeemed you, and in Peter says, you were ransomed. Redeemed and ransomed are two words that basically mean the same thing. It's the price paid to set you free. It's used of those who are either in slavery or those who are imprisoned awaiting execution. In our case, both. Enslaved to sin. Imprisoned under God's just condemnation and awaiting the execution that we deserve. We were in both of those situations. We were condemned slaves, slaves to sin, condemned by God's justice, and the price To set us free was nothing less than the blood of Christ, like a lamb without blemish or spot. The spotless Lamb of God, whose blood is beyond value, He paid. He set us free. And so we've been bought at a price. We've been rescued. We've been delivered. We've been redeemed. We've been ransomed out of slavery and condemnation. And we've been reconciled to God, and we've been given the privileged place. Of being his servants and his heirs. He set us free, he brought us into his family, he adopts us as his children, he puts us to work in his kingdom as his servants. And he promises us that we will be heirs, heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. That's the privilege of who we are and what we've been given. And I know that most of you know that. You think, okay, yes, we've heard this. We've heard this. But how easily we forget. How easily we act like orphans. Sometimes when my kids were little and they would be struggling with something and couldn't figure it out and they'd get frustrated. Sometimes I would say, why are you acting like an orphan? You're acting like a little orphan child. You have parents. We're right here. Just say, hey, I was trying to figure this out. Can't quite get it. Okay, let me help you with that. But we do the same thing. Oh, this is too big. Oh, this is too hard. What am I going to do? We're not orphans. We have a father who loves us. Now, he might not do exactly what we want him to do, but if it's not, it's because he has something better and wiser than we are. God will not forget or forsake his servants. That's what he says. I formed you, you're my servant, O Israel, you will not be forgotten by me. You will not be forgotten by me. The world and the devil and our own flesh are always telling us That God doesn't care about us, that God's not real, or that He doesn't really pay attention. But the Lord, He just says, return to me, for I have redeemed you. Not only does the Lord call us to remember and to return, but he also then calls upon all creation in verse 23 to sing and to shout and to break forth into singing at the redemption that he's worked for his people. Verse 23, sing, O heavens, for the Lord has done it. Shout, O depths of the earth, break forth into singing, O mountains, O forest, and every tree in it. For the Lord has redeemed Jacob, and will be glorified in Israel. It's a call. It's a call for all creation. to raise up a voice of a chorus of shout of joy for the redemption that God has worked for his people. Why? Why should the trees On the mountains, care that my sins have been forgiven. It's not just clever poetry. There's something going on here. There's an implication for all of creation. And it's in the last the last line, for the Lord has redeemed Jacob and will be glorified in Israel. He has redeemed And he will be glorified. Now, question: When will the Lord be glorified in his people? Fully Anybody? I'm not looking for a date. Please don't say a date. What? When the church is full. When the church is full and complete, and then what happens? Jesus returns. So when the last soul whom God has ordained to come to Christ comes to Christ and the church is full, The last living stone put in place of the living temple of God, Jesus comes again. That's when He will be glorified in Israel, in us, the people of God. And what will happen on that day? The curse over all creation that came in when Adam and Eve sinned will be lifted forever. Paul talks about it in Romans 8. Romans 8. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. See, see, he will be glorified in Israel. the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now and not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons. the redemption of our bodies. This is the glory that is coming. What do cancer and hurricanes have in common? They're both part of the curse. And they both cause groaning. Cancer causes us to groan. Why, O Lord? How long, O Lord? And what we're told in Scripture is that hurricanes cause creation to ground. Why, O Lord? How long, O Lord? And we're all groaning for the same thing, and that is, come quickly, Lord Jesus, fill up your church, and then come and bring the glory. Because when the glory comes, the curse will be over forever. And I have no idea what a glorified creation will look like or be like, but I can't wait for it. Because I think this creation shows such unspeakable pictures of glory, and it's under a curse, it's under a shadow. So when all that's removed, can you imagine? We're going to be set free. We have been redeemed, and God will be glorified in us. And we should groan for it. We should worship longing for that day to come. And sometimes the groaning is a printer that doesn't finish printing your sermon. Okay. So moving on. But the third stanza in verses 24 to 28, God is here calling us to look to Him For the confirmation of the things that He has promised and the things that He has begun that He definitely will do. Let's read this together, verses 24 to 28. Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, who formed you from the womb. I am the Lord, who made all things. Who alone stretched out the heavens, who spread out the earth by myself, who frustrates the signs of liars, and makes fools of diviners. who turns wise men back and makes their knowledge foolish, who confirms the word of his servant and fulfills the counsel of his messengers, who says, Of Jerusalem she shall be inhabited, and of the cities of Judah they shall be built. And I will raise up their ruins. Who says to the deep, Be dry. I will dry up your rivers. Who says of Cyrus, He is my shepherd? and he shall fulfill all my purpose, saying of Jerusalem, She shall be built, and of the temple, your foundation shall be laid. The Lord our Redeemer is the one who formed us from the womb. Now actually, I believe that Isaiah in verse 24, he's not necessarily directly talking about the formation of each one of us. Personally, in our mother's womb, although that's true. We have other places like Psalm 139 and Jeremiah 1 that refer to that. But this is, I believe, referring to the formation of the people of God in the womb of Sarah. So come back with me 4,000 years to an old couple. I talked about them last week, an old couple in the Middle East. Called to leave his father's house and go and settle on a land that they don't know anything about, and made a promise. The promise was made when When Abraham was 75 and Sarah was 65. Now that's ridiculous enough. But then God took his sweet time about it, and it was 25 years before he actually kept that promise. Promise. As they're wandering around the promised land, going in and out of Egypt and Abraham doing stupid things and then doing faithful things because he too was both Jacob and Israel. And then acting like a brave man of faith like us. But God had said, I'm gonna not only put a child in Sarah's womb Names him ahead of time. He's going to be Isaac. But he says, your offspring will be so many that they will be as the star in the sky. And I love during setup, Joel and I were talking about um uh Gabe who's down in Chile doing this telescope thing. And so he said, gave Sensome pictures of what's around the telescope in Chile. And what's around the telescope in Chile is nothing. There's nothing around. It is absolutely in the middle of nowhere and there's absolutely nothing around. I said, that's where you want to put a telescope. Because if you're gonna spend millions and millions of dollars looking up in the night sky, you don't want a bunch of light pollution And so Gabe sent some pictures of the stars, just the open, like the open uh bay window of the telescope looking up at the sky. Just astounding the number of stars that you can see, the whole sky. A wash in stars. And that's what the sky looked like when Abraham saw it. It wasn't like we go out and we're like, oh yeah, there's some stars up there. It was a wash in stars. And God said, there are so many, but your offspring will be like those stars. And then he said, it'll be like the sand of the seashore. Four thousand years later, you know, there are millions and millions of Christians all around the world. But all of the Christians and all of the people of God and all of the faithful ones who have lived in the 4,000 years since the day of Abraham, that's a multitude that no one can number except God. And yet the same God says in Isaiah, he says, I have numbered the stars, and I call them each by name. That's you. Way back 4,000 years ago when Abraham looked up at the stars That's Jacob's star. That's David's star. That's Ernie's star. That's He knew who you were. He had already written your name in the Lamb's Book of Life. And he knows you personally And so when he says, You will not be forgotten by me, he says in verse 24, I'm the one who stretched out the heavens, and I'm the one who spread out the earth by myself. Stretch out the heavens, the stars and the sky, stretch out the earth, the sand on the seashore. You are mine. That's a powerful God. And what does this God do with his power? He does two things. He frustrates all the experts. And he confirms his word. Frustrates all the experts and confirms his word. And he still does it again and again and again. He makes the knowledge of the so-called wise foolish, and then he lifts up the foolish who will dare to trust in his word. And makes them his children and his heirs. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, and we'll see God doing this in the church. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 18. For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. And the discernment of the discerning I will thwart. That's basically exactly what Isaiah 44 says. He turns wise men back, he makes their knowledge foolish. Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world for since In the wisdom of God, the world did not know God. Through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles, but to those who are called, both Jews and Gentiles, Christ, the power of God. the wisdom of God, for the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men, for consider your calling. Brothers, not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth, but God chose what is foolish in the world. to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are so that no human being might boast in the presence of God. And because of him, you are in Christ Jesus. who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption, so that as it is written, let the one Who boasts, boast in the Lord. The the experts of the world can't figure God out. And they don't even really want to. And they prove themselves to be wrong again and again and again. C. S. Lewis, as he so often does, has brilliantly said, the danger of someone not believing in the truth of God is not that he will believe nothing, but that he will believe anything. But God says, all that they have is not happening. What I am doing, what I am doing. You tell the world. What's my hope? My hope Is that an itinerant preacher, rabbi, son of a Jewish craftsman, who lived 2,000 years ago In poverty, in the land that's today Israel, that by his shameful public execution at the hands of the Romans He took away all my sins and cleansed my soul. And three days later he rose from the dead. And he is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And he sits at the right hand of God. And he's come coming again to judge, and I put all my hope in him. We say amen because we know it's the truth. The world says you've lost your mind But the foolishness of God is wiser than men. And the weakness of God is stronger than men. And so God decrees what will happen, and God carries it out. Here he says, Jerusalem's going to be rebuilt. The foundation of the temple will be laid. And when everything was destroyed and they were dragged off into exile, it didn't look like that was going to happen. And it was seventy years until it did happen. And when it finally did happen, the old men who were little tiny children when the First temple was destroyed, they looked at what was built and they wept because it was so pathetic compared to what was. But God wasn't done yet. Because what he's doing now is building a temple that is made up of a countless multitude Those stars in the sky, those grains of sand on the seashore are now the living stones being built into a temple that Revelation says is going to end up like a 1,500 miles on every side cube. I don't know if you can picture that, a city temple that's a giant cube fifteen hundred miles wide on each side. It's mass it's it's it's supposed to be the same thing as the stars of the sky, same to the You can't count that. How many stones would it take to make up such a thing Beyond counting. But that's what God's doing. And the world can continue to deny, and the world can continue to mock, and the world can continue to go its own way, but God continues faithfully to build His church. God continues faithfully to redeem the offspring of Abraham, and he will never fail. There's not a word that God has spoken that has fallen to the ground unfulfilled. God will keep his promise and he will not forget us. And we need to remember that. In the face of cultural chaos, in the face of cancer, in the face of hurricanes, in the face of our doubt over our own future, in the case in the face of Children who are not believing or the world that laughs at us, we need to remember: I have a Redeemer. He paid for me with His precious blood. And He the stars and he's building his church and the world can laugh but he will never fail let's pray Father You are perfect in all your ways, and you do all your holy will. The second coming of Jesus, the renewal of all things, the new heavens and the new earth. That's a fixed reality because you have decreed it, and it will come to pass. Father, give us the grace by your Holy Spirit to remember. To remember what Jesus has done for us, to remember who we are in Jesus, and to remember what hope we've been given. That this world can never extinguish, that we might live according to your word day by day. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.