Good morning and welcome to week three, day three. This is our thirteenth Advent Devotional in Scripture and Carols. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're looking at traditional Advent and Christmas carols as we prepare to worship Jesus and celebrate his coming. We're gonna be running these every weekday up until Christmas Eve. And we've been looking at traditional English carols yesterday and today, yesterday, God rescue Mary Gentlemen, today the First Noel. They both sort of go back to the late Middle Ages, and we're not really sure of their exact origin, except that they are folk carols that emerge from the people. They were sung for hundreds of years before they were ever written down. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. For this time that we can spend together thinking about your son, our Savior, thinking about the Christmas carols that we get to treasure and sing and pass on to our children generation to generation. Help us to take time this morning to think about Jesus and to think about what it means to worship him this Christmas season and always we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well the first Noel. So you see up here it says it's a traditional seventeenth century English folk carol. That would be the sixteen hundreds. That's the latest. Scholars disagree it could go back as early as the 1300s, and we'll talk about that more later. But Noel is a word that means birth. It's an old English word. It was spelled N-O-W-E-L-L in the older English, no well. Comes from a French word. That has to do with the announcement of a birth. And so the first Noel is the first birth announcement. And the first Noel came to the shepherds. And their story is told in Luke 2. But we just looked at the story of the shepherds yesterday. So what we're going to focus on today is later verses of the first Noel talk about the wise men who come from the east following the same star to worship King Jesus and so we're going to focus our attention on those wise men whose story is told not in Luke 2 but in Matthew 2 Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him, and assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born They told him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet, and you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah. are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child. and when you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. After listening to the king they went on their way, and behold the star that they had seen when it rose, went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. When they saw the star they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy, and going into the house they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. Then, opening their treasures they offered him gifts gold and frankincense and myrrh, and being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way. Now, the first Noel talks about how the angel in the sky, you know in the Bible, angels are sometimes referred to as stars. How the angel in the sky that the shepherd saw was the same star that the wise men from the east saw. We don't know that for sure. Um that's a little bit of poetic linking of these two appearances. But we know that the wise men from the east, not kings from the Orient, but wise men from the east, from Persia, probably, maybe Babylon. Maybe the Tigris and Euphrates River Valley area or even further east in present-day Iran, we're not exactly sure, just from the east. They're magi, they're wise men. They saw a star. He said, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. What star? What they've been talking about. Why did they know to look for a star and associate it with the birth of a king of the Jews? Well, we get a prophecy about a star and the coming of the Messiah from Balaam. The prophet hired by um King Balak of Amalek, the Amalekites. And Balaam is a very celebrated, very well-known prophet. In fact, archaeologists have found his tomb. He was very wealthy, very well-honored. He was a prophet of the most high. And so he wasn't Jewish, he was a pagan, but he was a prophet of God, and he was one that was greatly used of God. And he gave a prophecy in numbers. Actually, in response to a request from the king to curse the people of Israel, he gives a prophecy where he sees a star. He says, I see him, but not yet. A star will rise in Jacob's house and a scepter out of Israel. So the rising of a star is associated with a a distant coming ruler in Balaam's prophecy. How would these magi in the East have even heard about this or even know that there was a king of the Jews coming? Well, another connection that we have, Balaam was from the Mesopotamia area. He was a prophet from the east, but also, hundreds of years later, there was a very famous magi. chief of the Magi of the court of Nebuchadnezzar, and his name was Daniel. He was a Jewish prophet. He wrote the Word of God in the book of Daniel. So Daniel the prophet was chief magi, really. Uh he was head of all this sorcerers and astrologers and wise men and enchanters and diviners of dreams, all the sort of counsel of the spiritually enlightened. Daniel was the head one, because he was gifted by God with the interpretation of dreams. and with uh knowledge of God's will. And so he was the head of this group. And there's some speculation among scholars that Daniel started a school of magi that brought in the Jewish scriptures, brought in the Word of God and the prophecies of a coming Messiah. And maybe those were taken with Balaam's prophecy from numbers, and maybe even some form of Balaam's prophecy survived. in the east, because that's where he was from. Whatever it was, though, these pagan astrologers from Babylon or Persia, from about a thousand miles away, they knew that this star was a significant sign from God that the long-awaited king of the Jews had come and they were determined to worship him. They traveled a thousand miles, and then they asked in Jerusalem, where is he? Because Jerusalem is the capital city. It's the city where King David was. It's the city where you would expect a king to be born. King Herod is there. But the Messiah is not going to come from Jerusalem. It's the chief priests and the scribes, the experts in the Word of God, who have the answer. They know their Bible. They know the prophet Micah. And they go to Micah's prophecy and they say, In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet. This is Micah 5. 2 in our translation. And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. They knew, based on the Word of God, where the Messiah was to be born. So the sign in the heavens, we could call that general revelation, it was available to these pagans, it was in creation. And special revelation, the word of God, both testify to the same truth that is the birth of the king. And I find it fascinating that it was these pagans Who came from a thousand miles away, who were the most determined to go and worship the one who was born king of the Jews, and not the Jews themselves, who were the ones that the king was coming to. He's their king. And they knew the scriptures. But they couldn't be bothered because, you know, they had a pretty cushy life there in Jerusalem. They were close friends to Herod the king. They had positions of privilege and power and pleasure and profit. That's what they wanted. They chose that over these these pagans Walked a thousand miles and brought gold, frankincense, and myrrh, expensive, extravagant gifts to worship this king of the Jews, the Jewish leadership themselves wouldn't walk five miles. from Jerusalem to Bethlehem to go and worship him with anything. Instead, Herod's the one who asks Go and search diligently for the child, and when you found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. The chief priests and the scribes aren't saying, Oh Herod, when are we going to go worship him? They don't care. I don't care. Sometimes we can be so close to the truth. Sometimes we can be so close to the Word of God we can hear it. We can know it. But we don't have time for Jesus. We can't be bothered. We have too much in our lives that's more important to us than Him. The journey of the wise men is a call to us. to make sure that we make Christ, His coming and our worship of Him, the central most important thing of Christmas. And always Well, the first Noel is a traditional 17th century English folk carol, as I said, but its origins are unknown It was commonly sung by the sixteen hundreds, which is the seventeenth century of the sixteen hundreds, but some scholars say it dates back to the thirteen hundreds. We know where it comes from, not only England, but from the Cornwall region of England. And it was Davies Gilbert, who was a Cornish intellectual and a member of Parliament and later president of the Royal Society. He loved the carols that he heard growing up as a child and he thought, we need to preserve these. We need to make sure we don't lose these traditional folk carols. So in 1823 he publishes a collection called Some Ancient Christmas Carols, and this book contains the first printed lyrics of the first Noel About ten years later, William Sandys publishes the Carol with the melody. And it's the first time the melody actually appears in print. And there's actually some speculation about the melody because it's kind of low and it's kind of plain and it's a little bit repetitive. There's speculation that what what uh William Sandys knew was the tenor part, or perhaps the baritone part. the the low male harmony part of the song and that he published that as the melody because that's what he was used to singing. Maybe. We don't know. The exact origins of the carol, where it came from, how long it was sung, exactly how it was originally sung are lost to us. But we have this melody from 1833. And then in 1871, John Stainer revised the musical arrangement, putting it to four-part harmony for use by church choirs, and it's been used in the church ever since the first Noel. This is the 1833 William Sandy's version, which has the older spelling The first Noel, the angel did say, was to certain poor shepherds in fields as they lay, in fields where they lay keeping their sheep on a cold winter's night that was so deep. Noel, Noel, Noel, Noel, born as the king of Israel. So again, Noel is a joyful birth announcement. He's born, he's born, he's born, he's born. Born is the King of Israel. They looked up and saw a star shining in the east beyond them far, and to the earth it gave great light And so it continued both day and night. Now again, in Luke 2, there's actually no record of the shepherds seeing a star. They go to Bethlehem because the angels told them to go to Bethlehem, but this is a folk carol. And in folk carols Biblical details sometimes get fuzzyfied. And by the light of that same star, three wise men came from country far. To seek for a king was their intent, and to follow the star wherever it went. The star drew nigh to the northeast, or Bethlehem it took its rest. and there it did both stop and stay, right over the place where Jesus lay. Then entered in those wise men three, full reverently upon their knee, and offered there in his presence their gold and myrrh and frankincense. Then let us all, with one accord, sing praises to our heavenly Lord, that hath made heaven and earth of naught, and with his blood our life hath That's a great gospel call to worship in the final verse of the first Noel. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for sending your son. Lord Jesus, thank you for buying us with your blood, from slavery and condemnation to freedom and joyful adoption as your children, O God. Help us to worship you on bended knee with humble and submissive hearts and with joyful spirits, to embrace what you have done, what you are doing, and what you will do in and through us. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for the first Noah. Let's hear it together now. The first Noel. Just did say was to certain worship in truth as they lay in fear. On a cold winter night light. Okay, not it's well I get it. Sun shining for And continued. And our course sing praithus to eyes. And the Lord that has made him not handwind. No, no, no, no, no la van a dar, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.