Good morning, and welcome to Journey through Acts. This is a devotional series through the Book of Acts in which we are re-presenting devotional studies that were done in Acts as part of our three-year journey through the Bible that we did as a church from 2022 to 2024. Let's turn our attention now to God's Word. Hope you're having a good day today. It's day 463 of our three-year journey through God's Word. We're jumping back to the New Testament, back to the book of Acts. to pick up with Acts chapter 9, and this is the hinge, the pivot of the book of Acts as we see the conversion of this violent persecutor of the church, Saul of Tarsus. And he will become the Apostle Paul, the most successful missionary in the history of the church. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your faithful love to us. For your strong salvation in Jesus. We thank you for saving the Apostle Paul. Almost 2,000 years ago, we thank you for saving us. We thank you for calling us to follow the same Jesus and proclaim the same Jesus to a world that needs to know him. We pray that you bless us now as we spend this time in your word, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Acts 9. But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priests and asked for letters to the synagogues at Damascus. so that if he found any belonging to the way, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. Now as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven shone around him. And falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But rise and enter the city, and you will be told what you are to do. The men who were traveling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice, but seeing no one. Saul rose from the ground, and although his eyes were opened, he saw nothing So they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus, and for three days he was without sight, and neither ate nor drank. Now there was a disciple at Damascus named Ananias. The Lord said to him in a dream, in a vision, And Anias, and he said, Here I am, Lord. And the Lord said to him, Rise and go to the street called strait. And at the house of Judas look for a man of Tarsus named Saul, for behold, he is praying, and he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay hands on him, so that he might regain his sight. But Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much evil he has done to your saints at Jerusalem. And here he has authority from the chief priest to bind all who call in your name. But the Lord said to him, Go. For he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel, for I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my name. So Ananias departed and entered the house, and laying his hands on him, he said, Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road by which you came, has sent me so that you may regain your sight and fill with the Holy Spirit. And immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight. Then he rose And was baptized, and taking food, he was strengthened. For some days he was with the disciples at Damascus And immediately he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogues, saying, He is the Son of God. And all who heard him were amazed and said, Is not this the man who made havoc in Jerusalem of those who called upon this name? And has he not come here for this purpose, to bring them bound before the chief priests? But Saul increased all the more in strength and confounded the Jews who lived in Damascus by proving that Jesus was the Christ. When many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him, but their plot became known to Saul. They were watching the gates day and night in order to kill him. But his disciples took him by night and let him down through an opening in the wall, lowering him in a basket. And when he had come to Jerusalem, He attempted to join the disciples, and they were all afraid of him, for they did not believe that he was a disciple. But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles. and declare to them how on the road he had seen the Lord who spoke to him, and how at Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of Jesus So he went in and out among them at Jerusalem, preaching boldly in the name of the Lord, and he spoke and disputed against the Hellenists But they were seeking to kill him. And when the brothers learned this, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus So the church, throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria, had peace and was being built up, and walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied. Now, as Peter went here and there among them all, he came down also to the saints who lived at Lydda. There he found a man named Aeneas, bedridden for eight years, who was paralyzed. And Peter said to him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you, rise and make your bed. And immediately he rose And all the residents of Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord. Now there was in Joffa a disciple named Tabitha, which translated means Dorcas. She was full of good works and acts of charity. In those days she became ill and died, and when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room Since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, urging him, please come to us without delay. So Peter rose and went with them. And when he arrived they took him into the upper room. All the windows stood beside all the widows stood beside him weeping, and showing tunics and other garments that Dorcas had made while she was with them. But Peter put all of them outside and knelt down and prayed, and turning to the body, she said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up, and he gave her his hand, and raised her up. Then calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive. And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord. And he stayed in Joppa for many days with one Simon, a tanner. That's Acts chapter 9 as we continue our way through God's Word. What a wonderful chapter. So we see Saul's conversion, and then we get some glimpses into Peter's ministry. Saul is a violent opponent of the church. He's breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord. He goes and gets a commission from the high priests in Jerusalem. to go to the synagogue of Damascus that anybody who might be associated with the synagogue in Damascus who belongs to the way, that is a follower of Jesus, men or women But he might bind them and bring them to Jerusalem where they would stand trial before the Sanhedrin and be threatened with death. And so he's riding on to Damascus, to Syria. He's going outside of his national boundaries, he's going On a zealous mission to find the followers of Jesus. And God meets him. Jesus meets him on that road to Damascus. And Saul's upwardly mobile, successful, politically influential life comes to a crashing stop. And he is set free from the shadow of life that he had been living, and he was given true life in the Lord Jesus Christ Who reveals himself? Who are you, Lord? He said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. When Jesus is pleased to reveal himself, to our souls, then we are saved. Now Saul was saved in a special supernatural way. He was made to be an apostle of the Lord as one born out of due time, as Paul would write in First Corinthians fifteen. He's he's called and set apart. And in a special way, Ananias who is a prominent leader of the church in Damascus, he's called by the Lord to go and lay hands on Saul and to restore his sight. And then Ananias is able there to be a character witness and one who would go with Saul and who would introduce him uh to the brothers and the brothers will encourage him. But then Saul almost immediately he goes and he starts. uh preaching and teaching in those synagogues in Damascus where he was he was charged to go by the high priest and capture the Christians, instead he's going to those same synagogues in Damascus and instead of capturing Christians, he's saying, Jesus is the Son of God. And they're amazed. And they think, wait a minute, this is the guy who attacked all the Christians in Jerusalem and he came here for the purpose of arresting Christians. And now instead of arresting Christians, he's become one himself. He's telling us all about this Jesus who is the Christ. And this is shocking to them. It's so shocking to the Jewish leadership in Damascus that they want to kill him. They want to get rid of him. Because here is unmistakable evidence. of the resurrection of Jesus Christ and the power of God for salvation through Jesus Christ, that this man who was well known, publicly, widely well known as a violent opponent of Christianity, if he could say My heart and my life have been changed because Jesus has appeared to me. He has shown himself to me. He has changed me from the inside out. Now I am a follower of his and now let me tell you from the scriptures that Jesus is the Christ. This is clear, undeniable, irrefutable proof that Jesus is alive and is who he said he is. And here's this very capable scholar, this very respected uh young Jewish man who is now testifying to the truth of Jesus and so he has to be stopped. And so there's a plot to kill him. But he's let out through an opening in the wall by being lowered down in a basket. And that should remind us of those spies who were lowered out through an opening in the wall by Rah by Rahab in the book of Joshua. In that same way, Saul of Tarsus here, now uh an evangelist for the Lord, is being led out of this hostile city uh to escape with his life. And he goes where? He goes to Jerusalem. Now, the timing of this is kind of unclear here in the book of Acts, but Paul, when he writes Galatians, he makes it clear that actually this is a long period of time that passes between the time he was confronted by the Lord on the road to Damascus and the time when he ends up in Jerusalem. This is going to be a a period of time of some fourteen years that's going to pass between the time he first meets the Lord and the time when he actually goes to Jerusalem and meets up with the apostle. sorry, three years. Did I say fourteen years? Sorry, three years after uh his his conversion. Sorry, my brain was checked out for a second. Um So this is when when he actually goes back to Jerusalem. So we we do get some idea. It's you know when many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him. So we don't know how long Paul was there in Damascus testifying in and around, but he was in, you know, Damascus for some period of time. And then after he leaves, it just says, and when he had come to Jerusalem, it doesn't mean he went straight to Jerusalem. He may have visited other churches in the area, he may have stayed in that area. But it's about three years from the time he's confronted by the Lord Jesus on the road to the time he actually ends up in Jerusalem. But his gospel is confirmed. Although his gospel was given him directly by Jesus, it's the same gospel that Peter and the leadership in Jerusalem has been preaching. And so everyone is astonished at this one again who was so famous, so well known, uh so uh uh zealous in his persecution of the church, is now so zealous in telling people that Jesus is the Christ. So we have now a turn to Peter, and we see Peter involved in a couple of significant uh healings. And I think the significance of these healings is that Peter is fulfilling the promise that the Lord Jesus gave that those who came after him would do the same kinds of works that he did and would also do greater works. So the same kinds of works that Jesus did here, he's healing a man who was bedridden for eight years and paralyzed. That's something that Jesus also did in his earthly ministry. And the second one with Lydia, with sorry, with um Lydia, just getting my all my facts mixed around my head with Tabitha, whose name means Dorcas. Tabitha, remember in the Gospels, Jesus raised up the little girl uh and said Talitha Kumi, which means little girl arise. Well here G uh Peter says Tapitha arise. So this is intentionally very, very uh close to uh the miracle. uh that Jesus did uh in restoring uh the girl who died in in the Gospels. And so uh Peter is doing the same kinds of works that Jesus did and still greater works. What are the still greater works? That's the work of the gospel in bringing many, many converts to Christ, in being the power of God for salvation, because while Jesus spent three and a half years in his earthly ministry, he had fairly few actual converts. Because it wasn't until after his death and resurrection and ascension and the sending of the Holy Spirit that now the preaching of the gospel will go forward through the disciples with great power, and within a few years you have thousands and thousands of people who are following Jesus Christ, people of the way, Christian people uh who are following Jesus. And so this is what we're supposed to see here in Peter. Is isn't Peter doing exactly the same things that Jesus did. Yes, that means he is an apostle and he's doing far greater things in that so many people are coming to know the Lord and to find salvation in him. That's a reminder to us. that while we may not see these signs and wonders being done today, there's people around who think, oh, if only we had the same signs and wonders as the apostles. The apostles were given those gifts as a seal, as an authentication of their ap apostolic ministry. because they were giving fresh revelation from the Lord to the world and that needed to be authenticated by God through these miraculous signs. We're not giving fresh revelation to the world. The revelation's already been given and it's already been authenticated and validated by supernatural science. But we are given this still this greater work to do and the greater work is the work of evangelism, the work that the Apostle Paul was doing. Paul didn't do that many miracles. He did some, but when he went around in Damascus and other synagogues, he didn't go around doing a bunch of signs and wonders. He went about preaching Jesus from the scriptures, and God was pleased to save many. And that's the same privilege that we have today as followers of Jesus Christ. We can do the still greater work. of preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ and seeing people come to life in Christ. Let's pray. Father, thank you for giving us the privilege of doing this still greater work. of seeing men and women, boys and girls set free from sin and darkness, and to be brought into the light of your heavenly kingdom and the light of knowing Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. Help us to be faithful to that. Help us to be faithful to proclaim Jesus, to preach Jesus from the scriptures, and to be used by your Holy Spirit to change the hearts and minds and lives of many. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining us for Journey Through Acts. We're going through the book of Acts one chapter at a time in this devotional series. If you would like all of the devotional series, studies that we did on every chapter of the Bible. They're available on our YouTube channel. You can just go to YouTube and search for Forest Hill PCA and then look for the playlist on Walking with Jesus through the Bible. We took three years to go one chapter per day through the entire Bible. We hope that's a blessing to you. May the Lord bless you and keep you and hope you can join us next time.