Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I hope you're having a good day. We are on question 55 of the Heidelberg Catechism today. We're in this Wonderful section that deals with the Apostles' Creed. We're in the last part of the Apostles' Creed. Last time we considered what we mean by the church. And today, closely related to that, what do we mean by the communion of saints? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gift of life that we have in your Son Jesus Christ, and thank you that the gift of life we have in Christ means that we have been made a part of your church. We have been made part of the communion of saints. Help us to understand what that means today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Today's devotional is actually a great setup for Sunday's sermon that's going to be on Romans 12. And you'll see that part of our um Catechism devotional, one of the scripture passages we're going to look at is our sermon text for Sunday. And I love that. That's happened several times In these devotionals, if you've been following along, if you're listening to the devotionals Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and you're listening to the sermon on Sunday, God in His providence, unplanned by any of us God in his providence has brought these things together in a wonderful way. So we are in the section of the Heidelberg Catechism that deals with the Apostles' Creed as the articles of our Christian faith. So what are these articles? Question 23 asked. I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified dead and buried, he descended into hell. On the third day he arose from the dead, he ascended in heaven, and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life. So we are getting close to the end of the Apostles' Creed as today we're dealing with the second part of the ninth article, the communion of saints. Let's review where we've been. Last time we looked at question 54. What do you believe concerning the Holy Catholic Christian Church? Again, it's small C Catholic, which means universal. Which is how the answer is going to help us understand it. I believe that the Son of God, out of the whole human race from the beginning of the world to its end, gathers, defends, and preserves for himself by his Spirit and Word, in the unity of the true faith, a church. chosen to eternal life. And I believe that I am and forever shall remain a living member of it. There is only one church, the body of Christ. Christ is our head, Christ is our gatherer, our defender, our preserver, our savior. It's the same church from the beginning of the world to its end. You had Adam and Eve and Abel and Seth at the very beginning. who are part of this church and we have all the people from all over the world who are part of this church now one true church in the unity of the true faith to believe in the one true and living God is to be a part of this one faith. and this one church. We looked at that last time. Today, we're looking at question 55. What do you understand by the communion of saints? Answer. First, that believers, all and every one, as members of Christ, have communion with him. and share in all his treasures and gifts. Second, that every one is duty bound to use his gifts readily and cheerfully for the benefit and well being of the other. members. It's powerful. We have a a duty to use the gifts we're given for the well-being of others. And these gifts come because we have communion with Christ. and we share in his treasures and gifts. Well where does the Bible teach these things? Well, several places. First of all, Romans 1012 says There is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches. on all who call on him. That was just from yesterday's Romans 10 devotional. So we see a connection there. Jesus is calling out people from all over the world. And as we come to faith in Jesus Christ as Lord, there's not a distinction between Jew and Greek. He bestows his riches on all who call on him. Romans 8. 34 says, He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things. You understand the power of that? Romans 8 also says that we are heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ. If we are in Christ by faith, if we have communion with him, By faith, united with him by the Holy Spirit, we share in all his riches, in the inheritance that he has as heir of the world, as heir of all things, and the gifts that he gives us to share in as the body of Christ. 1 Corinthians 12 speaks specifically of these gifts. saying, Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit, and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord, and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. So there's no, there are no Christians who don't have the Holy Spirit You see, to each is given. The same Spirit of the same Lord is in all believers, each and everyone. And we're given gifts from the Holy Spirit so that we can serve the body of Christ for the common good, the common good of the communion of saints, the body of Christ. And Romans 12, 4-8 puts it this way. For as in one body, we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function. So we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them If prophecy in proportion to our faith. If service in our serving, if um in Sorry. It service in our serving, the one who teaches in his teaching, the one who exhorts in his exhortation, the one who contributes in generosity, the one who leads with zeal, the one who does acts of mercy with Cheerfulness. That is our calling. This is our sermon text for Sunday, including verse 3, but 3 to 8. So We are one body in Christ. This is the communion of saints. We belong to Christ. We belong to one another. We're individually members of another. That means if we're joined to Christ, we also are joined to each other and we belong to each other. My right hand does belong to my left hand. They work together. My pinky finger belongs to my ring finger just as it belongs to the body. They work together on things. You don't see random parts of the body just declaring rebellion and running off all by themselves, or they just die. We're one body in Christ, and every part of the body has gifts. Gifts that are given by God to use them in serving in teaching, in exhorting, in contributing with generosity, in leading with zeal, and in doing acts of mercy with Cheerfulness. And I love that Paul ends this list with cheerfulness, because that's how all of us should be exercising our spiritual gifts, but especially those who are called to a ministry of mercy. One more passage, and that's 1 Peter 4, 10 to 11. As each has received a gift. So don't say, oh, I don't have any spiritual gifts. I'm not gifted by the Spirit. Yes, you are. As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles of God. Whoever serves, as one who serves by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. I want to end on this one because it really brings us back to what this is all for. Why are we to serve one another? We are good stewards of God's varied grace, yes. But why are we to serve one another? In order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. Whenever a member of the church refuses to exercise their gifts for the good of the church, The glory of God in Christ Jesus in the church is diminished. It's diminished by the lack of the exercise of that gift. It's like, you know, if you sleep on your side and your arm falls asleep or your hand falls asleep and it's like numb and tingly and it's not quite working right, and until that blood gets flowing and until it's functioning properly the whole of the body is diminished. And this is the glory of God. Through the Holy Spirit, we as the church are the body of Christ. Christ is our head and we are existing to glorify him. As we serve one another well, as we speak, as we serve, with the strength that God supplies, with the gifts that God supplies, Christ is glorified. God is glorified in Christ. Every single member of the church plays a part in this. And we're privileged to be able to because the gifts with which we serve are given to us out of the riches, the treasure of Christ. So again, what do you understand by the communion of saints? First, that believers, all and everyone, as members of Christ, have communion with him and share in all his treasures and gifts. Second, that everyone is duty bound to use his gifts readily and cheerfully for the benefit and well-being of the other members. Let's pray. Lord, what a privilege What an awesome privilege it is to be called to share in communion with Christ and to receive from Him, out of His treasury, gifts. that we can use to serve your church for the glory of your name among us. We cannot take the gifts we've been given and hide them away for our private use, or refuse to exercise them for the good of the body. or be selfish or demanding about them and want to make it all about us. We are called to serve one another. to give ourselves to one another in the body of Christ for the glory of God in Christ in the church. So give us that that heart, that commitment, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much again for joining me and for these Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I hope they've been helpful to you. Let's respond as we always do by worshiping God together in song. Torchures are speaking of the shell. I love the church so God her was me for these men dear as the We have all thy night and graven on thy head for her night here shall fall for her my head. We are my highest boy, my choice that we wake to speak on you. Seizure the next The pride is for the body.