Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bevel from Forest Hill Presbyterian. So glad you're with us as we're wrapping up our seventh week together in this wonderful nearly 500-year-old catechism. What's a catechism? It's just a teaching method, a series of questions and answers that helps you through Think through something and helps you learn something. In this case, it's a gospel catechism, the Heidelberg catechism And it was written during the days of the Reformation to bring spiritual unity to the people who were living within the Palatinate, which was a German area around the city of Heidelberg and it brings us gospel comfort by leading us through a series of questions and answers. It guides us through scripture. From guilt through grace to gratitude. And today we're on question number 19 out of 129. And so we're coming to Grace. We are in the grace section of the Catechism. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we seek to know Jesus more deeply together. Heavenly Father, thank you for our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Last time we saw that He is the mediator and the deliverer that we need. So we pray that we would grow in our depth of knowledge and understanding of Him and the wonderful salvation, the grace that we have in Him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so we're here in the Heidelberg Catechism, and last time we looked at question number 18. It was the end of a long series of questions dealing with The fact that we are guilty before a holy God, and we need a mediator, a deliverer, someone who can save us from our guilt before a holy God. And at the end of a long series of questions and answers, we came to question 18. Who is that mediator who is at the same time true God and a true and righteous man? And the answer was Our Lord Jesus Christ, who has become for us wisdom from God. That is our righteousness, holiness, and redemption. And that taken from 1 Corinthians Chapter 1, verse 30. So Jesus Christ is the mediator, true God, and the true and righteous man. But The next question, question 19, also part of Words Day 6 set of questions, is from where do you know this? Or how do you know, or where did you get this information? From the holy gospel, which God Himself first revealed in paradise Later, he had it proclaimed by the patriarchs and prophets and foreshadowed by the sacrifices and other ceremonies of the law. Finally, he had it fulfilled through his only son. This is how we know. We know from the holy gospel. The word gospel means good news, from the good news. Now, if you were to ask Casually, where would I find the gospel? In the Bible. Most Christians would say, oh, in the New Testament. There's four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and they're in the New Testament. And if we say, what's where's the first gospel? Oh Matthew's the first gospel. But here we're using this word gospel to mean the good news of salvation that would ultimately be brought about in Jesus, where is that first revealed? That's actually first revealed by God Himself. In paradise. And it's an unusual place because it's in Genesis 3, where we have the fall of Adam and Eve into sin. And right there in Genesis chapter 3, after Adam and Eve have fallen into sin, God comes to bring the curse and the consequence for their sin to them. But before he brings the curse and the consequence to Adam and Eve, he curses the serpent who deceived them. And he gives a promise, a gospel promise in the curse of the serpent in Genesis 3. 15. He tells the serpent, I will put enity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring, he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. This sets up an enmity between two lines, the line of the seed of the woman and the line of the seed of the serpent. those who belong to the hope and the promise, and those who belong to the lie and the condemnation. And ultimately, there's a singular offspring who's going to come, a he. He will come and bruise the head of the serpent. But the serpent will bruise the heel of the seed. This is telling us about the Lord Jesus Christ. It's very interesting that the Lord Jesus Christ is here promised to be the seed of the woman Because normally in Hebrew, this idea for seed or offspring is a reference to the child of a man, most of the time. like the offspring of Abraham, the offspring of David, or it sometimes is a man and a woman together. It's never anywhere else other than here. referred to as the the offspring or the seed of a woman. This is the only time we have that expression, the offspring of a woman. That's a little bit of a hint that we're going to have a virgin birth. But it's a special man for sure, a special man who's born of woman and who comes in to bruise the head or crush the head. of the serpent while the serpent crushes or bruises the heel of the promised offspring. That's the first gospel promise, and that first gospel promise is spoken by God Himself. in the Garden of Eden. This is before God kicks them out of the Garden of Eden, before He gives them clothes of skins, before He curses the ground and curses woman and childbirth. Before any of that happens, God gives this gospel promise in Genesis 3. 15. Well, as we continue in the book of Genesis, we get more gospel promise, and this is from the story of Abraham. We have two scriptures here, Genesis 12. 3. And Genesis twenty-two, verses seventeen and eighteen. In Genesis twelve three, God says to Abraham, when he's first calling him, I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you All the families of the earth shall be blessed. Sometimes Christians are taught to think in sort of shorthand ways and think that the Old Testament is all about the Jewish people. And the New Testament is all about the church and the nations, the Gentiles. But that's not really true, because even here in Genesis, the very first book of the Bible There's a promise given for the blessing of all the families of the earth, which means God at the very beginning had a gospel for the nations, a gospel for everyone to the ends of the earth. He repeats this. promise in Genesis 22. If you know Genesis 22, you know that this is where Abraham was called to offer up Isaac. the son of promise on Mount Moriah. And because I uh because Abraham was faithful to follow through and to be willing to truly offer up Isaac, his only son, the child of promise. God stayed his hand and God provided the lamb instead, but at the end of that, God renews this promise and gives some clarity about it He says, as he said before, I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven, and as the sand that is on the seashore, and your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies. And in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. Abraham acted in faith to obey the Lord. And here, whereas before God had said, In you, all the families of the earth shall be blessed, here he says, in your offspring, that same word that he used in Genesis 3 of the woman. The offspring of the woman is now tied in the offspring of Abraham. In your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. This is the gospel. It's the gospel in Old Testament seed form. It's a gospel for the nations, even from the very beginning when given to Abraham. Let's jump ahead a little bit in the Old Testament and let's look at Genesis 23. 5. God says to the prophet Jeremiah, Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch. And he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. This branch was mentioned a couple hundred years earlier through the prophet Isaiah, and it's the offspring, it's the offshoot of The line of David, a righteous branch. He's it's actually the picture that's given to us in Isaiah is that there's going to be a stump of of David's line, in other words, David's kingly line is going to be cut down and felled in the Babylonian exile, and there's just going to be a stump left, but even from the root in the stump, a branch will come forward in here We have a reference again to the branch. He's a righteous branch. He's going to reign as king. He's going to deal wisely, and he's going to execute justice and righteousness in the land. Again, this is a gospel promise fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Here's an even clearer Old Testament gospel promise about how Jesus will establish justice and righteousness in the land. How's he going to do it? How's the righteous branch going to establish justice and righteousness for a sinful people? Well, Isaiah 53, verses 4 to 6. Surely he has borne our griefs. and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. This is how the Lord is going to bring about salvation. This is how the promise given to Eve is going to be, or given to uh Yeah, Adam and Eve about the offspring of Eve in the form of cursing the serpent. This is how it's going to be fulfilled. This is how the offspring of Abraham is going to bless the world. This is how the branch from the line of David is going to come into the world. He's going to come. And be our mediator and our deliverer by taking our sins upon himself, to be pierced for our transgressions, to be crushed for our iniquities Upon him the chastisement that brings us peace, so that with his wounds we are healed. He comes to be the sin bearer, he comes to be the once for all final sacrifice. That's how he brings the promise about. And that's how we know that Jesus is the fulfillment of this promise because this is what he did when he came. Looking back on it in the New Testament. Galatians 4, verses 4 and 5 says, But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem Redeem requires a redemption price. That redemption price is his blood, his life, to redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive adoption as sons. So in the fullness of time, God sends forth his son. His son, who is true God, because he's the son of God, he's God. He's born of a woman. He's born as a man, as a real man. So he's true God and true man. He's born under the law. Child of Abraham, child of David, offspring of a woman born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law that we might receive adoption as sons. This is the gospel. So we could look at so many other scriptures. This is one of those catechism questions where I could have just continued on with scripture after scripture after scripture for like an hour or more. Um but but it's really helping us to see and have confidence when we say that the mediator who is at the same time true God and true righteous man is our Lord Jesus Christ, who has become for us wisdom from God, that is, righteousness, holiness, and redemption. We can know that for sure. Because God's given us his gospel in Paradise, even in the Garden of Eden, even in Genesis 3. 15 And then he's proclaimed it by the patriarchs to Abraham, by the prophets in Jeremiah and Isaiah. He's foreshadowed it by the sacrifices. We could have looked at Passover and the Passover Lamb, or the Day of Atonement, other ceremonies of the law. All of it given for hundreds of years and then finally fulfilled through his only son. The whole of Scripture testifies. And reinforces our confidence that we have this mediator, the Lord Jesus Christ. God has promised, God has given, and we should give thanks. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, how gracious you are to send us such a redeemer, such a mediator, such a deliverer. He's what we need, not what we deserve, but he's what we need, and you've given him to us, and we are so thankful. May we follow Jesus by faith and honor you with our lives for all that you have done for us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for another devotional on the Heidelberg Catechism. We're going to respond as always by worshiping God together. Oh Lord, my rock and my redeemer, greatest treasure of my longing soul. My God, like you, there is no true divide. It's bad in you. Yet even the heaven tree your truth of found a perfect relation my highest news In my angel. Oh Lord, my rock in my reke, strong deep. My soil to fight the cruelty and my team against his hateful dog. My home with him before me. My home when I'm My joy in trials are accounted for people I refuge in a So you got in the line. My rock and my receiving Gracious Savior of my real and love I guess. And cross laid on your shoulders In my praise You suffer that You The grave and death are comforted. Here we're all my kids. And crazy I'm not My rock in my remote, lay all my days, bring glory to your name, lay all my days. Breathe glory to your name.