Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest. Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you here on our twelfth week of devotionals together. We're here in the middle of the week, and we've come to question number 33 as we're thinking about uh what it means for us to be Christians, what it means for us to be children of Christians. of God and Jesus as the Son of God. That's kind of our focus for today. Let's ask the Lord's help as we dig into the catechism and into his word this morning. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. For giving us your Son, your only begotten one and only Son. We thank you that through Jesus we can be adopted into your family as sons of God. We thank you for the privilege of knowing you. We thank you for the privilege of having your word. We thank you for the blessing of the Heidelberg Catechism that helps us understand and grasp the truth in your word. We pray that you would guide us today by your Holy Spirit into all truth for the glory of your name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Okay, we're going to be on question 33 today, but first we're going to review. Last time we looked at question 32, why are you called a Christian? And the answer is because I am a member of Christ by faith, and thus share in his anointing, so that I may as prophet confess his name. As priest, present myself a living sacrifice of thankfulness to him, and as king, fight with a free and good conscience against sin and the devil in this life. and hereafter reign with him eternally over all creatures. It's a wonderful truth. We are Christians. We belong to Christ. As Christ is the anointed one, so we also have the anointing of the Holy Spirit through Christ. And as he is a prophet, priest, and king, we also are called to these roles of prophet, priest, and king, to speak forth the truth, to uh pray and to offer ourselves as a living sacrifice and to exercise the authority, all authority in heaven and on earth that's been given to Christ and then delegated to us as his disciples. Question 33 then asks, why is he called God's only begotten Son? Since we also are children of God. And the answer is because Christ alone is the eternal, natural Son of God. We, however, are children of God by adoption through grace for Christ's sake. So why is he called God's only begotten Son? And we're also children of God. He's the Son of God in a different way, fundamentally different way, eternally, naturally. We are genuinely children of God, but it's by adoption through grace, and it is for Christ's sake. Let's dig into Scripture. John 1. John chapter 1, verses 1 to 3, and then 14 and 18. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. No one has ever seen God. The only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. So we see John 1 in this masterful prologue, which really goes these whole 18 verses from 1 to 18, is telling us all about the true origin of the Son of God who came into the world. as Jesus of Nazareth. He's the eternal word of God. He's eternally with the Father And eternally is God as the Word of God. He was in the beginning, and all things were made through him. See, he's the creative word of God. He is the one who became flesh and dwelt among us. He has a glory, a unique glory. The glory as the monoganace, the one and only, the one of a kind, the unique the only son from the Father, full of grace and truth. And we've never seen God, the Father. We've never seen You know, God is a spirit, has no body, he's invisible, but the only God who is at the Father's side, see, he is God. And he's at the Father's side. He came into the world to make him known. That's Jesus, the Son of God. We, however. Have received him, and through him have the right to become children of God, as we'll see later. That's also in John 1. We'll get to that verse in just a minute. But first, another one, also from the pen of the Apostle John, this one in the letter of 1 John 4, verse 9. In this the love of God was made manifest among us. that God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through him. And again, here only is not denying that we too are sons of God, but it's saying we're not in the same category. Jesus is in a unique category in that God sent him into the world as the son of God. We're totally different. We're born into this world as children of wrath. Even children of the devil, as Jesus said himself, because we listen to him and follow him, were born under condemnation. And it's only through Christ, as John 1. 12 tells us, But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. We're given this right, this authority, this power to become children of God, not because of anything that we have done, but only because of who He is and what He has done for us. This is the privilege. Only by receiving Jesus, only by believing in his name, only because of his sake do we become children of God. And this is what Romans 8 says. Wonderful Romans 8, verses 14 to 17. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. See, this was the unique, the demonstration that Jesus made as Son of God is that when he was anointed as Christ with the Holy Spirit at his baptism, He was led by the Spirit of God into the desert wilderness to be tempted and tried, and then throughout his ministry, he was anointed by the Holy Spirit. All who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. We are never to obey God out of slavish fear as though we're going to try to avoid punishment and we're hoping to earn reward. That's what slavery is. Slavery is always, I'm trying to avoid punishment, I'm hoping to earn reward. That is not the spirit of adoption. You did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. What a wonderful truth. We are in Christ. And in Christ, we have the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Adoption. In Christ we cry out to our common Father, Abba, Father. And the Spirit Himself bears witness, we are children of God. We too have been adopted into the family. And if that's true, Then we're heirs of God and we're fellow heirs with Christ. But along with that, being led by the Spirit of God means that we need to suffer along with Him. Where was the first place that Jesus was led by the Spirit of God? Into the desert wilderness to fast for forty days and be tempted by the devil, he was led into suffering. We will be led into suffering if we are led by the Spirit of God, if we are sons of God. If we do everything we can to avoid suffering, or if we only are obeying God out of a slavish fear Fear of punishment, hope of reward, because we're mercenary in our approach to God, then we're acting as slaves, and not children who love our Father. Not children who cry, Abba, Father, to the God of the universe. Only by the Holy Spirit, only by faith in Jesus Christ, only by being united to Him can we be children of God and live as children of God. So back to our catechism question, why is he called God's only begotten son, since we also are children of God? And the answer is because Christ alone is the eternal, natural Son of God. We, however, are children of God by adoption through grace for Christ's sake. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, what amazing grace, what astounding goodness that you would adopt us into your family as your children. We don't deserve it. We couldn't earn it. Yet the very idea that somehow by our own obedience we could earn reward and avoid punishment just doesn't take seriously our sin or your law. And it also rejects this gift of grace, this adoption. As sons of God through Jesus Christ, we're given privileges, the right, the authority, the power to become children of God, heirs of God, co-heirs with Christ, to cry out, Abba Father to you. This is all by your grace. And it is all for your glory. Help us to live it. Help us to live it today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for another wonderful Heidelberg Catechism Devotional. I hope you've been enjoying going through the catechism together this year. Let's respond to God as always by worshiping Him together in song. And can it be that I should gain an interest in her day? But die for me who caused his pay for me to death. How can it be that my God should die? Light me a baby love how can it be that thou my God should die? For me, it's fine. So he still is grave and he is the And let for Adams help Praise Mercy your emails. Oh my God, I tell me amazing love. I am free since the middle day past an age. I defeat a quick knee, I walk the dungeon. With a line I changed a lot, my heart was free. I will rose with cold and cry. God will be a great one, how shall it be about to die? I'll come to nation now I try to stand off in him. It's aligning my waving coding right. The I bone throughout the turnout wrong and claim the cry to cry. How can it be that thou like God should die?