Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with us as we begin our 37th week together in the Gospels. We are in the Gospel of John, chapter 14. We're coming into some of my favorite chapters in any of the Gospels, 14, 15, 16, 17. Wonderful words of Jesus as he teaches his disciples and then praise for his church. So we're in for some good stuff this week, next week. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look at John 14, 1-14. And we're asking today, do you know how to get to God's house and how to live there forever? Let's pray. Father God in heaven, thank you for loving me. Thank you for loving us. Thank you for sending your son. Thank you for showing us the way to your house so that we can live there forever with you. Teach us from John 14 today. Give us wisdom and insight by your Holy Spirit. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. John 14, 1-14. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. and will take you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way. and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you? So long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father How can you say, show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me. that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. Truly, truly I say to you, Whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do. And greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, that I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. Did you grow up with a friend's house that you loved to go over and visit, stay there? We enjoy having some of our kids' friends over to our house and our kids enjoy going over to other people's houses. I remember growing up and They just had those certain friends where their their homes just seemed welcoming and, you know, maybe it was a good food and for me growing up, frankly, it was who had a good game system. because we didn't have one at home and things like that, right? So knowing your friend, knowing their parents knowing how to get to their house, having permission to enter. All of these things were key to like being able to go to this place that you enjoyed. Here we have Jesus on the night that he's betrayed. Judas Iscariot has already left. He's already gone to betray Jesus. This is during the time when Judas is You know, finding the chief priests and the s and telling them where Jesus is going to be. And they're still in the upper room, but Judas knows they're going to go to the Garden of Gethsemane, and that's where Jesus is going to be arrested. And so while Jesus is actively being betrayed, He's not thinking about himself. He's thinking about his disciples. He's caring for his disciples. And the first thing he wants them to know is he wants them to know how to get to his father's house. And how to live there forever with him, not just come for a quick visit of a couple of hours. He tells them about the Father's house. to calm their troubled hearts. He knows they already sense some tension in the air. They already sense that something bad is going to happen. And he doesn't want them to be troubled. He says, Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. Then he tells them about his father's house. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? So Jesus is going to prepare a place in his father's house, in God's house. But they don't get it. They sense that they're going to be parted from him. They sense that something big and important and sad is coming. But they don't really understand where he's going. Thomas says, we don't know where you're going. How can we know the way? And Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father. From now on, you do know him and have seen him. So Jesus says, I'm going to my father's house, to God's house. And you can come there through me. You can't come any other way. So if you want to know the way to God's house and you want to know how you can live there forever with Him, the way to God's house is through Jesus and through Jesus alone. He is our way. That is He's our access. He's our passage. He's our direct connection to God. He's not only the way, but he's also the truth. Jesus had said earlier, or he's going to say later to Pontius Pilate when he's on trial, everyone who's on the side of truth listens to me. But earlier John had said at the beginning of his gospel, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Jesus is the Word of God, Jesus is the truth, and whoever listens to the truth listens to Jesus. He's the truth. And he's the life. We not only need access into heaven, but we need the ability to be able to live there forever. We need eternal life to be with God forever. Jesus gives us that in himself because he is eternal life. To get to the Father's house, to be able to stay there forever. You just need to know the Sun. How do you know the Son? By faith, by trusting in Him, by believing in Him, by living with Him, by talking to Him, by having a vital relationship with Him. And if he is the way and the truth and the life, you can live with God forever. And what I think is interesting is that even Philip here doesn't get it. He's like, just show us the Father and it's enough for us and and Jesus has to go to great lengths to say, like, the reason why I'm the way, the truth, and life, the reason why I can call God my Father and say that I'm the access and no one comes to the Father but through me is because The Father is in me, and I am in the Father, and if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. People want to know, what is God like? How do we know what God's like? Well you read the Bible, yes. The Bible tells you what God is like, but ultimately you look at Jesus. Because Jesus is the full revelation of God in human form. And if we believe in him, if we believe in him, we will abide in him. That's going to be a major theme in chapter 15. We'll live in him. We'll live with him. We'll have that vital connection and that will secure our way to the Father's house forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son Jesus the way, the truth, and the life. The one who gives us access to you, the one who shows us who you are, the one who gives us eternal life. It's all found in Jesus, your Son and our Savior. Thank you for him. Lead us. Lead us until we're face to face with Jesus. Lead us to trust in Jesus more and more deeply every day. We pray this in his name and for his glory in our lives. Amen Well, thanks again so much for joining me for this first devotional of our 37th week together. I hope it was a blessing to you. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.