Anyway, let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for gathering us together for Sunday school this morning. We pray that you would bless our time together, that you would be our teacher. teacher and our guide as we think about the geography of the Bible and how the land that you promised to Abraham and that you gave to your people uh for centuries. And where the Lord Jesus Christ came and walked and lived and taught and died and rose again, how how important it is and how central And how the geography of that land and understanding it helps us to understand uh your word more clearly, helps passages of the Bible that might seem strange to us come alive to us so that we can understand uh your pattern of working in in a real place in real history and help us to get a clearer sense of that together this morning. We thank you for your goodness to us in our time and our place. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. Geography is history, some people have said, because the way a land is situated, the way it's laid out. shapes history. And I believe that when the Lord promised the land of Israel to the Jewish people and And when he foretold that this is where his son was going to be born in Bethlehem, and where he was going to do his ministry in Galilee, that this was with purpose, right? This had effect Actually let me get that laser pointer thing. I don't usually need it, but today will be helpful to have that. I think it's in that open Maybe so To understand the basic layout of the geography of Israel is actually pretty simple Um you have Land between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea. And you have to the north of this, which is just off the map on both of the Sea of Galilee, which empties into the Jordan River, and then that empties into the Dead Sea. The Dead Sea has no outlet to it. And then you have this is this is the Jordan Rift Valley, which is part of the Great Rift Valley. Which is actually, if you look at a world map topographically, this is the largest and deepest rift on land anywhere in the world. And it extends down to Africa. So Doug Dempsey, for a few years, taught at Rift Valley Academy in Kenya. And the Rift Valley of Rift Valley Academy in Kenya is the same Rift Valley that is here in Israel. So it extends all the way down. Um the land of Israel is a land of speaking of batteries Two double A's. Like, why isn't it working? It's blinking red. That means the battery's dead. There we go. Okay. Um The land of Israel is a land of rain, as we'll see in a little bit. The rains come in off of the Mediterranean. And what happens when rain clouds meet mountains? They get squeezed and all the rain comes out. So as the rain clouds come in off of the Mediterranean, they get squeezed by these central highlands, by the Judean hills. And they have, they get squeezed of their rain. And so what is to the west of there is very fertile ground Uh good for sheep grazing and then good for um actually I need triple A's, sorry. This is just a great start, isn't it? So they get squeezed and what's to the what's to the west of there is a very fertile area. But then what's to the on the eastern side of those mountains, it's very dry. Almost no rainfall on the eastern side of the mountains. Um, but a lot of the rain does end up in the Jordan River. It comes down from the northern highlands and it ends up in the Jordan River and the Jordan River does overflow its banks. And so there is some fertile land on either side of the Jordan River, which functions more like the Nile functioned in Egypt for the people of Israel. One quick spiritual lesson. The Jordan River flows through the Sea of Galilee. It flows in from the heights that are north of there, and then it flows out to the south. And as the Jordan River flows through the Sea of Galilee, in and out, the Sea of Galilee is teeming with life. It was the most abundant freshwater fishery in all of the Roman Empire. It is still an abundant fishery today. They have been bringing fish out of the Sea of Galilee for 5,000 years or more. It is abundant with life. But as the Jordan River flows into the Dead Sea, It has no outlet. It doesn't go anywhere. So it so the Dead Sea brings in the water from the Jordan River. River, but doesn't pour it out. And because of that, it's stagnant water that the only way to get dry is to evaporate, which is a slow process over time. Which concentrates the salt and the mineral content and kills everything. There is not a single living thing in the Dead Sea, not one. Not an algae bloom, not a plant. It's dead. And there's a lesson for us in that, and that if we bring in the living water, we are to share that living water with the world. But if we bring it in and we keep it to ourselves and bottle it up And we refuse to give out what God has poured in, we die on the inside. And we become like the Dead Sea. Okay. I think we're ready for our first video. This is just an overview of the geography of Israel. With any civilization, we must first begin with an overview of the terrain, as the environment played vital roles in how each culture developed. Unlike Egypt, Palestine had little natural protection since it was only a narrow strip of settled territory along the seacoast. It formed a natural highway for merchants, visitors, and invaders moving between the great city-states in Egypt and Mesopotamia Being mountainous for the most part, it could only support a modest population and could not compete with the massive armies of Mesopotamia and Egypt. Egypt. However, being an international crossroad, this most likely contributed to the high literary culture found in the Old Testament. Biblical authors seem to have known well the beliefs and writings of other nations The natural geography of Palestine divides the land into a series of long north-south zones with very easy means of getting across the country from west. The four major zones are the coastal plain, with sandy or marshy soil, which stretches from the narrow belt in the north to broad areas in the south. The Hill Country, or Shepfelah, a series of low hills and valleys up from the coastal plain, often good for sheep herding and orchards, and well settled in ancient times The Central Mountain Range, which runs like a spine down the eastern part of the country, often reaching 2,000 feet in height and sparsely settled in early times. Jerusalem sits on this range. And the Jordan Valley, which is the lowest area on our and stretches down the whole eastern border. It is broken twice by water, the Lake of Galilee in the north, and the Dead Sea in the middle of the year. Just to give you some perspective, the Sea of Galilee is 684 feet below sea level, and the Dead Sea is an amazing 1290 feet below sea level. These two lakes are connected by the Jordan River, which takes 200 miles to go the 60 miles between them as it wanders in loops. Below the Dead Sea, no river flows, but the valley continues for another 185 miles to the Red Sea. This area is called the Aruba. These north-south zones are broken only by the Esdraleon Valley, stretching across the middle of the country just above Mount Karma. It's the most fertile farming land, which was heavily populated at all times. Mount Carmel itself sticks out into the Mediterranean Sea, breaking the easy journey up the coastal plain and forcing travelers to pass through near Megiddo. This narrow pass became the center of many battles and has become popularly known as Armageddon. The land can also be divided by four major regions that stretch across its length from east to west. The first is Galilee This is a mountainous region north of the Estralion Valley that gives up to the high mountains of Lebanon. Samaria. This is the middle of the country, and its hilly nature is bordered on the north by the Australian Valley. It formed the heart of the northern kingdom after the time of Solomon. Judah. This is a mixture of the high mountains and dry wilderness area to the east, but on its west is rolling hills and wide plains that produced much of the fruits and vegetables of the land. And finally, the Negev. This is a desert area stretching across the whole southern part of the land and making up more than half of the total area of Palestine. It gradually becomes the Sinai Desert, dividing Palestine from Egypt. Few settlements were made in the Negev. We'll explore each of these areas in more detail as we study the history of biblical Israel. Well that's our first video. We're told about the land in the book of Deuteronomy as the Lord is preparing his people to enter into the land. Deuteronomy 8, 7 and 8 says For the Lord your God is giving you into a good land, a land of brooks, of water, of fountains and springs. flowing out in the valleys and hills, a land of wheat and barley, of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive trees and honey So you have this area here and this area here and especially this area here and then a lot of these areas up here are all good farmland And over time, we think Israel today is drier than it was in biblical times, but they still get a decent amount of rainfall on the western side of those mountains. But one of the things that grows really, really well are uh are fig trees and date palms. So the honey That's referred to in Scripture as a land flowing with milk and honey. There's two different kinds of honey. There's bee honey and there's date honey. You can take dates and you can crush them. and you get honey out of it. It's a sweet liquid for cooking. Um while there was probably some bee honey in Israel because bees are a good natural pollinator and they did have uh farming Probably when God said it's a land flowing with honey, it was a reference to the date honey, because there are date palms everywhere. throughout Israel. And actually just recently, within the last few years, they uncovered archaeologically twenty five hundred year-old uh date pits And they successfully found male and female. There's male and female uh date palms. And they got them to populate. And so now there are actually growing date palms that are the exact kind of date palm that would have been there in biblical times. And when you go to Israel you see very much that it is a land of abundant produce. These are pictures of two of the shops that are along the Via Della Rosa in Jerusalem, so as you're walking the path that Christ walked. Um in his day it would have been a busy market uh area and it still is today, two thousand years later, and um you see nuts and dates and and uh figs and fruit and they have baked goods and and other things that they make from those things locally. Spices, an abundance of different spices. Uh food there is really good. That's a chicken shawarma uh in a in a pita. It was our sort of standard go-to lunch. Um and so you w wherever you go, the buffets, the restaurants, there's there's fresh local produce all year round. Um different seasons, of course, different things are in season, but it's it's there all year round. And so the Lord said in Deuteronomy eleven eleven, the land you are going over to possess is a land of hills and valleys, which drinks water by the rain from heaven. Now this would have been a very different experience for the Israelites because when they heard this from Moses, where were they coming from? Egypt. And what does Egypt get a lot of rain from heaven? No. Egypt doesn't get any rain from heaven. And so on the left here You see a map of the agricultural lands of Egypt. What do you notice about the agricultural lands of Egypt? Where are they? Right next to the Nile River, right? And particularly to the west of the Nile. So the Nile flows up on the eastern side, and what they do is they dig irrigation channels to irrigate that land. Of course when it gets up to the Nile Delta, it's a little bit more of a of a wide, fertile area. But um they they've done this more recently. This is a modern day project where they've redirected water from the Nile Delta out uh into the Sinai Desert. Uh this is also another new one. down here. But in biblical times you had a very narrow strip of land and basically almost no rain in all of Egypt. This water is all coming from Uganda, a lot of it. Um, because what's in Uganda At one of the main sources of the Nile River. Anyone know? Yeah, Lake Victoria, which is the third largest freshwater lake in the world. It's the only one in the top five that's not um part of the Great Lakes. So it's the third or fourth largest freshwater lake in the world. So a lot of the rain that falls in uh central east central Africa, in Uganda, in um uh Rwanda in the Congo even ends up in Lake Victoria and then ends up flowing north through the Nile River. Some of it also comes out of Kenyan Ethiopia, but Kenyan Ethiopia are generally drier lands as So there's less water coming out of there than it's coming out of Uganda. But this is rainfall in Israel. What do you notice about rainfall in Israel? So the red is basically no rain. And then as you go from red to this color green, you're getting a little more rain, a little more rain, a little more rain, a little more rain, a little more rain, and then a lot of rain. Okay, and here's your topography in terms of elevation. Low, middle, high. So what do you notice about where the rain falls? It's all to the west of the mountains, right. So that rain comes the storm clouds come in off the Mediterranean and they get squeezed by the mountains and they drop their rain. And uh it doesn't just all drop there. A lot of it drops in the mountains and it flows down, which you can see as it drops in the mountains and flows down, it flows down in these rivers. And then some of the rivers f flow all the way out to the Mediterranean, but uh so um that's where it gets squeezed. So notice the Jordan River starts far north. Most people think the Jordan River starts in the Sea of Galilee, but actually starts far north. These are the the Lebanese highlands, which are even higher mountains than the mountains. um in Israel and so when storm clouds come out over here they get squeezed by these mountains and that gathers in the Jordan River which flows into the Sea of Galilee. This is a map of Jerusalem from the year fifteen eighty one, from a German A cartographer named Heinrich Bunting. You see Europa over here Right? And you see Asia over here, you can see India and Armenia and Arabia. And you see Africa down here, Egypt and Libya. All right. Evelyn, is that an incredibly accurate map? No. But is it a totally wrong map? No. Because Israel and Jerusalem are very much at the middle of these three continents. So Africa is down here and Asia is over here and Europe is up here. And if you're wanting to go from Europe to Africa or from Africa to Asia or Asia to Africa, you pretty much need to cross through Israel. There are other ways to go, but there are much harder ways to go. The easiest way to go is along what's known as the Via Maris. Via means way, and Maris means of the sea. So it's the way of the sea. Here it's labeled on this map, hopefully in English, the International Coastal Highway. It is the main trade route between Egypt and Damascus in Syria. And then from Damascus you could go this way into present day Turkey, which is Asia Minor, and then over into Greece and Europe, or you could go this way into Arabia and into Iran and then into Asia. So linking Egypt to Damascus is a very important road. Now there was another one called the King's Highway that went this way. But it was called the King's Highway. It was harder to travel. It was more tightly controlled. generally had higher tolls and so it was much more expensive to travel. This is pretty much all low in flatland. And so you can, uh kids, if you're if you're driving a cart pulled by a horse, right, what kind of ground are you looking for if you've got a wagon full of produce or merchant merchandise and you're trying to sell it. What kind of land do you want? Flat land, right? You want the flat land. And so that's why this route became important because uh Um if we go back a few slides, we can see um when I brought in the elevation here This is all high mountains, but this is all all the green is low. So if you come up from Egypt, you're in low, low, low. You cut across here, and then you can go up through Galilee, which is low, around the Sea of Galilee. And then up. And that is the Wiamaris. Notice Megiddo is this city right here We'll come back to Megiddo. But that is in Hebrew, that is Har Megiddo, the city of Megiddo. which in Revelation gets Greekified into Armageddon. Harmageddo Armageddon. So this is the name of this city. It's also the name of this valley that all people would have to travel through if they're going from Egypt. to Damascus. Alright, another short video. They would chop down all the trees. They needed the wood for making weapons for siege machines. And then over those thousands of years of warfare, no one's bothered to replenish the trees. Rani, you've been bringing people to Israel. And taking him around this country for a very long time. Thirty-three years. That's a good amount of time. Okay, basically somebody gets on the plane, they come to Israel, they get on a bus, and they're expecting to see sand dunes and Arabs on camels all over the place. Okay. I think the best way to really talk about the land is talk about physically what the land looks like. This is the Middle East, but it's not like you see on TV like Afghanistan or Iraq. Iraq it's a little bit different. First of all, we're not in a continent that's called the Middle East. We're in Asia. Actually we're in Western Asia along the Mediterranean coast. We're a small nation, about the size of New Jersey. The width of Israel is only seventy miles. You can drive in about ninety minutes. And the length of it is about two hundred and thirty miles miles. That's really about it. We're boundried in the north by Lebanon, uh the northeast Syria, which is right behind me. Jordan is the longest border that we have. Going all the way down south to the Red Sea between us and Egypt. The Red Sea, by the way, is an outlet to the Far East. It was a port that was opened up by King Solomon 3,000 years ago We connect three continents. This is a land bridge. We are a land bridge. This is the cradle of civilization. Because we have a 120-mile coastline, that coastline became a very, very important At some point about two thousand years ago, the Romans will nickname that. That anyone who controls that route will control commerce. And whoever controls commerce will control money. And whoever has money has power. This is the most fought over piece of real estate in the world. Israel sits in such a unique location geographically, and that geographic location helps us understand why it's such an important place spiritually. When Jesus begins his ministry, why in the world did he go to this small fishing village right on the shores of the Sea of Galilee to make that his base of operations for nearly three years? There had to be a reason. I don't know. First of all, he's a grassroots kind of guy. That's why he stayed away from the big cities. But I think the main reason is For the three years of ministry here, everyone came to him. How did they hear about him? He needed some kind of a communications network. So VMares. Pass right in front of the town. Merchants, travelers, anyone, either coming down from the north or coming up from the south, would have had to hear about the wonders or even witness the miracles of Christ at confront That's why everyone knew about her when you travel through Israel and I love traveling the land with my family, it seems like we as a nation are we're always investing in in making this place look more beautiful and in planting and you know and cultivating what this land Being that this is a land ridge and and a land that was always in in turmoil because everybody wanted to control the trade routes. There were many wars. And every army that came and attacked, whenever they besieged the city, what they would do is they would have to be a very good thing. chopped down all the trees. They needed the wood for making weapons for siege machines. And then over those thousands of years of warfare no one's bothered to replenish the trees. So for the last one hundred years or so, there's always been Jewish organizations that took care of The restoration of the land is a deep and important part of our history and identity here. But today, within the country There is a concern that the next generation is losing touch with that part of our story. It's not clear who will take up the mantle to care for the land. So let's go back to Megiddo. Because of Megiddo's central important location, so it's on the turn, right? So coming up from Egypt, you're just going up sort of right along the coast. But then you have to turn inland if you want to get over to the east and not have to cross the mountains. And so you turn to the east um and that's where they built Megiddo, is where where the armies would turn. It was the one place where you knew everybody would would pass. The merchants would pass there. So Megiddo was really a military garrison and a tax collecting town. Because if you were a merchant and you were passing by that way with your load of whatever, you were going to be charged a tax. And so whoever controlled that town had the right to collect all of that tax. But also, if you were an army and you were passing that way, that would be the best place to engage. Because after you make that east turn, it's a wide valley that goes across toward the Sea of Galilee. It's the most fertile valley in all of Israel. And it is a place where the most battles have been fought of any place in the history of the world. There are 34 Major documented battles that took place at the city itself or in the valley dating back as far as 3000 BC up to 1918 and the British conquest of the Ottoman Turk Empire at the end of World War One. Hasmonians, Greeks, Romans, Muslims, Crusaders, Marmalukes, Mongols, French, Ottomans, Brits, Australians, Germans, Arabs, and Israelis have all fought and died here. And this is that valley behind me in this picture. So that is the valley of Megiddo. Sometimes also called the Valley of Jezreel. It can be called by either name. Technically Jezreel refers to the valley. Megiddo refers to the city, but often the valley Valley is called the Valley. And so it is the number one battlefield throughout the history of the world. Um it is mentioned by name in Revelation as a place of culminating battle. Some people uh take that literally and think that at the end of the world Antichrist is going to gather all the forces of the world and fight a literal battle against the people of God in this valley. I don't take that view because I don't think Does justice to what's going on in Revelation. But the reason why Revelation names this place as the scene of conflict is because for so many years this was the place of conflict. Several important people in biblical history died in battle in this valley. But the one that I always think about when I'm there, or I've been there a couple times now is Josiah. So Josiah was the last good king of Judah and he the one time he disobeyed God The prophet Jeremiah told him not to go out and confront Pharaoniko, because Pharaoniko was marching From Egypt up against the Assyrians and Babylonians, and he passed right through the Valley of Jezreel. Well Um Josiah was went out to oppose him, to try to stop him, and he was killed. And so um He was killed in that battle. This is also the battle between the Philistines and Israel at the end of Saul's kingship started in this battle. Now it moved off to the east. And Saul and his sons were slain on Mount Gilboah, and their bodies were hung at Bait Shion, which I'm going to show you in just a few minutes, but the battle started here in the Valley of Jezreel. And there are several other very important battles. Anytime you look at in Jezreel in the Bible, it's talking about this valley just outside of Megiddo. And this is a picture taken from inside of the ruins of Megiddo, looking out at the valley. And so you can see how this city was situated to have this great view of the whole valley. So you couldn't just sneak past. Uh they had watchmen and they had They had stables to keep horses. They had an underground source of water, of a flowing stream spring. That's why the city was built there because there's an underground spring. You can actually go down to the Underground Spring and walk through the water tunnel and see where where it where it is. It's pretty cool. But it really is a military garrison town. um that is for toll toll tax collecting as well as for um uh military Housing. Where I'm standing here, this place I'm standing under is this place right up here. So that's the view out there. This is just inside the city. They've uncovered this city and found something like 17 layers of of city. And so uh it's an old city that's been uh inhabited for a long time. But the gates, uh the the gates that we went through when we were there were built by Solomon. Um and that's referenced in in uh kings about Solomon building up the gates of Megida. Caesarea, so on the Mediterranean coast Built by King Herod the Great, the one who was king when Jesus was born, was the port city and imperial city, Roman imperial city of Caesarea. Now what's interesting Herod the Great was a Hasmonean king. He was in the Hasmonite dynasty. What does that mean? Well, he wasn't Davidic. Okay? And he married into the Hasmonite dynasty. Who are the Hasmonites? Have you heard of the book of Maccabees? Okay, and the Maccabees revolt. Okay. So the Maccabees rebel against the remnants of the Greek Empire that are occupying them. And they successfully overthrow the Greeks in about 168 BC. And they establish their kingship. But their kingship is not the Davidic line. It's uh a different dynasty. It's actually a priestly family, the Hasmonites, and they they rule. Now you get to a point where by uh the twenties BC, the Hasmonite line has no male heir to sit on the throne. And so Herod marries in. Where's Herod from? Anybody know? He's an Edomite. He's an Idumean. So if you see in the New Testament an i Idumea, that e Idumea is the same as Edom. And Herod is an Edomite. So he's a convert to Judaism. And he marries into the Hasmonite dynasty. And he is he he tries to be very careful, to be very Strongly Jewish. Like he he's really he's marrying into a priestly family who are also the kings And he's an Edomite, or but no, he's an Edomite by birth, so he makes a conversion. And anywhere he goes, he builds synagogues. He he he keeps to the Jewish rules. But he also does something else. If you're Jewish, are you going to be super happy about having an Edomite reign on the king's throne over you? No. So he faced opposition. If you're facing opposition, what is one way that you can get the upper hand and secure your power? What might you need to get if you're facing opposition within your country? Other people do this with the United States all the way, all the time, by the way. What do you do? Or get allies. Get allies. Get help, right? Um, get help. And so Herod decided he would get help. He knew that the Romans wanted to have a presence and an influence on the eastern side of the Mediterranean. The Roman Empire did not yet extend to this point. But he knew that the Romans wanted a presence and an influence. And so he invited them to come in As his protector and ally. Think that was a good idea? No Will the Romans ever come in someplace and serve another ruler? No. So Herod has built this port city on the Mediterranean and he calls it Caesarea. Why would he call it Caesarea? Named after Caesar, right? So he is paying homage to the Romans by building this Roman city and it is very much a Roman city. It has a theater, it has a hippodrome, uh, and so It it is very Roman and is built right on the coast. And this is the place where the Romans will have their seat of government. So if throughout the New Testament You'll read of King Herod, King Herod Antipos, Herod the Tetrarch, and then you'll read of King Agrippa. Those are actually four generations of the same family. So it goes from Herod the Great, who was king when Jesus was born. to Herod the Tetrarch. Tetrarch means one-fourth king. And that's because Herod the Great was so powerful That when he died, the Romans said, We cannot have anybody who's this powerful over this much of the world, so we're going to divide his kingdom up into four. Okay. And then, and that's the Herod who was king when Jesus is put on trial. So you remember when Pontius Pilate is listening to Jesus and finds out he's from Galilee? He says, Oh, you're from Galilee? That's Herod's territory. But Jerusalem wasn't Herod's territory anymore. That Herod, Herod the Tetrarch, was just king over Galilee. But you still had a Roman governor the whole time. Then later you have Herod Antipos, who is the Herod on the throne, when James, the first apostle to be martyred, is martyred by Herod And then he dies, and then Herod Agrippa becomes king. And here the Bible helps us out a little bit because it just calls him King Agrippa. Which is like, thank you for not having another King Herod that we have to keep track of. But actually he was Herod Agrippa. So you have four generations of Herods. They're the kings. They're sitting on the thrones But the governor is the Roman appointed governor. And who has the real power? The Roman governor. And don't you forget it. At Caesarea, they kept a legion of troops. Rome assigned an entire legion of troops to keep the peace in Israel, in Judea. They were housed throughout the year in Caesarea. Three times a year, during the three great Jewish feasts of Passover, Pentecost, and Tabernacles. They were marched from Caesarea to Jerusalem. And they were put in uh uh Herr um Plontius Pilate had a fortress there called Antonia Fortress and he kept he housed them there three times a year So, uh Caesarea, very important city. Um it was the seat of Pontius Pilate's government, as I said. It's also the home of the centurion who was the first Gentile convert to Christ in Acts chapter 10 Uh that centurion lived in Caesarea. And then Paul was kept in Caesarea in the book of Acts from chapter 23, verse 23 through chapter 26, a period of about two, two and a half years. He's kept in Caesarea in prison awaiting his transport to Rome. And he'd have to go right out over that sea to go to Rome. This is present-day Caesarea. been uncovered. It's a beautiful uh city. Now it's been built on so many different times that the archaeologists have to be careful when they're uncovering it. because you don't want to ruin or destroy um you know artifacts and archaeological sites. But the problem is that the cities are built one on top of another. And this is a good example if you look over here real carefully. This area here is the hippodrome. Does anyone know what a hippodrome is? Does anyone know what a hippo is? What is a hippo? This is a trick question, by the way. What is a hippo? It seems obvious that it would be the short Yeah, it sh it would be, right? Except it's not. It's the first part, it's the first part of the name Hippo Potamus. And hippo potamus means water horse. A hippo is a horse. We don't think about that, right? You see a horse standing in the field, you don't think, oh there's a hippo, but that's actually what a hippo is in Latin. A hippo's a horse, right? So what's a hippodrome? Yeah, it's a horse drone. It's a it's a horse racing arena. You guys seen Ben Hur? The chariot races, that's where they had the chariot races. And there was a big hippodrome right here. The only problem is this side over here, this would be the other side of the track, but it's been built over by a later I think this is Arabic construction. But so they've uncovered part of the hippodrome, but you sort of have like half the track. This part up here is Herod's Palace. Where they're doing new excavations. See this here? This is brand new excavations. They're going underground. You can't get in there yet. But what do you think would be underground underneath Herod's palace? Any guesses? What's that? Dungeon. Prison. Yep. So this is where the Apostle Paul was kept for those two two and a half years He was kept under here, and then he was brought up and marched over here, where he was when he when he appeared before Governor Felix, and then when he appeared before um King Agrippa and Queen uh Bernice. So this is the Hippodrome. These are these are the original Roman stands of the Hippodrome. This is you can see the circuit. So just imagine that Ben Hursey of these chariot riders riding around this hippodrum. Right on the sea. I mean it's kind of like um is it Daytona that's built right on the beach? Yeah, so it's kind of like that, like, you know, built right on the beach. This is a short video. That's the spot. Where Paul makes his defense. So for me, like great treat to be able to stand there and read and teach Acts 26 and Herod's defense before King Agrippa. standing in the very place where uh he would have stood. So notice Herod's palace is right next to the Hippodrome. So you just walk right out and you can go right to the chariot races and then come right back to you. Here's another picture. It's just a beautiful place too. It's right on the Mediterranean, beautiful day. It was kind of hot, but this is our our local tour guide, Yuckols. Please pray for Yaqov. He's not a believer. He's Jewish. He is basically agnostic. He's 79 years old. He's lived in Israel since 1947. And he has cancer. And he needs the Lord. So I shared the gospel with him several times pro personally with some next to each other on the bus, but he's he's heard it all, he knows it all, but he just is uncommitted. So that's some goofy guy up there in a hat. Um yeah, that's our tour group. So right there you walk right past the excavations where they're digging out where the prisons were This over here is a later um Ottoman uh palace built by the Ottoman Turks. Alright, up to the northern part of the Sea of Galilee to Capernaum. Capernaum sits on the north of the Sea of Galilee. It was the hometown of Peter and Andrew. It was a major fishing town. I say major, it had maybe 1,500 people who lived there. We think. But it was a fishing town. And it was strategically located because it sits right on the Sea of Galilee and also right on the Via Maris. So you could take the fish out of the Sea of Galilee, and you could immediately sell them to the traders who are moving along the Via Maris. If you read the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew is the one who in chapter 4 makes it very clear that Jesus is going to Galilee and to Nazareth to fulfill what the prophet Isaiah said. about this section of the world in Isaiah 9, but also that he makes his headquarters in Capernaum. And that as he's doing his miracles in and around Capernaum and Galilee and Nazareth, everybody from throughout Syria and beyond hears about Jesus and comes to him. So Matthew makes this emphasis on how many people from even the surrounding nations heard about Jesus and came and traveled to him to be healed. Well how would they hear about him? None of his immediate disciples went that far north, but the VMRis goes up to Damascus, and the traders who would go by Capernaum and would hear about how many miracles Jesus had done, they would take news of this up to Damascus and from Damascus it would reach the whole surrounding area. This is uh not my picture. Um didn't have a drone. with me. But this is an overview of the city of Capernaum. This is the synagogue. The synagogue is a third Or a fourth century synagogue built in the 300s. But it's built on top of, right in line with and on top of the foundation of the first century synagogue. So when you're in this synagogue, you're standing directly on top of the synagogue of Jesus' day. And we know that Jesus taught in the synagogue. He healed in the synagogue. This is a a house that was uncovered that showed all the marks of being a domus ecclesia, and a domus ecclesia is a house church And it showed all the marks of having been used in the early centuries as a house church. And so it was identified as Peter's house or Peter's mother in law's house. And it's also been now thought that that is probably the house where Jesus was teaching and where the four men tore open the roof and laid lowered the man down and he got So all this is here in uh Capernaum. They've excavated all sorts of things and there under here there's all sorts of pillars and things that they've excavated. These are these are these all be uh homes, just regular homes um around. But there's a big church that sits right above Peter's home. They run masses in there continually and when they're running a mass you can't go in. So I've been to Capernaum twice, but I've never been inside the church. So inside the church they have a a glass floor where you can look down and see Peter's home from the top, but I've never been able to see it because it's always closed. That's me teaching in the synagogue. And when I was there, I was teaching on John 6, which is the bread of life discourse, which Jesus taught in that synagogue. So like standing where Jesus stood and teaching what Jesus taught is pretty cool. And this is the Sea of Galilee. Alright, we're running out of time. I knew we were would let me wrap up real quick. This is the uh third century synagogue. You can tell the first century is this darker basalt rock. Beit Sheon, we went to. It may be the oldest inhabited city in the world, maybe over 6,000 years old. It was used first by the Egyptians when they ruled Canaan about 1500 B. C. city where Saul and his son's bodies were displayed. It's later the lead city of the Decapolis in the New Testament. So when you read in the Gospels of the Decapolis, that was this city and the other nine are on the other side of Jordan and the Galilee area. area. If you look, Megiddo and Beit Sheon are at the two ends of the Valley of Jezreel, so very important cities. Because that's where you would turn and that's where you would turn again. So this is our group going through. You know, just walking on two thousand year old Roman mosaic streets. No big deal. Um Heavily Roman and pagan area. By the way, this is the source of the horn of plenty that we see at Thanksgiving. This is the Roman god who's associated with that horn of plenty. He's the patron god of uh of Beit Sheon. This is an inscription that talks about who was the sponsor of the mosaic road. Imagine making your roads out of mosaic tile. It was later built over, so you see one layer is the mosaic tile, second layer is this layer, and then the marble is the third layer. So there's three layers at least. over the city street. So by the way, this is Beth's sister Bonnie whose house in Georgia we stayed at, and that's our niece Grace, who's her oldest daughter. They were on the trip with us. So when we go to the lake house, it's her lake house. She was This is the Sea of Galilee. Just so much, of course, in the in the New Testament happens around the Sea of Galilee. We don't have time to talk about it all because we're already way over time. Um tilapia from Galilee were sold in the markets of Rome. We know that. And uh Jesus spent most of three years in and around this body of water. And we got to sail on this body of water. This is sunrise. I took this picture from our hotel, uh near our hotel, and this is us on the boat By the way, this is what the fishing boats probably look like. They uncovered one, a first century fishing boat, and so they've reconstructed. So when you go on a boat tour of Galilee, you're on a reconstructed uh based on the model that they or of the ship that they uncovered. And it's a pretty big ship. So when you think of thirteen guys being on a fishing boat, most of the pictures we see are like people crammed into a little tiny boat You wouldn't have that as a commercial fishing vessel where you're pulling in nets full of fish with, you know, a crew of guys on board. So these it's actually a pretty good size uh and we had about 30 people in our group. Actually we had 45 people in our group and we were all on board. Alright, Jerusalem. This is looking at Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives. This is looking at the Mount of Olives from Jerusalem. So this is Back and forth. It's high in elevation, it's surrounded by mountains, it's a secure place. Um this is Masada, which is the desert fortress palace built by Herod. It was the southern border of the Roman Empire at the time, and so he built this Palace in order to serve the Romans' interests as well as his own to protect against Arab raiders because this is the border of the Roman Empire, and below that you had Arabia and Mass. Abatea and those raiders would come up and that's why this was there was to keep an eye out. Alright, we are out of time. Let's pray. Father, thank you for just so much to learn about the geography of Israel and to understand about this land and to get a a feel for the layout and it helps us understand and picture the Bible better. Pray that we would be able to do that, that we would continue to learn and grow, and that you would continue to teach us and grow us. We pray this In Jesus' name. Amen.