Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forestville Presbyterian. Church. It's good to be with you here. We're in our seventh week of devotionals together, working our way through the Heidelberg Catechism, and today we come to question number 18. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the gift of this wonderful catechism. It's an instruction tool, a teaching tool. It's been used by millions of your people for almost 500 years. It's been translated into well over fifty different languages around the world, and it's a treasure to us. We thank you for it. We pray that we would see Jesus clearly today and that we would respond by faith in him And we pray this for his glory in your church. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Well, we are here looking at question number 18, but first we're going to run through the questions that led us here A little bit of a lengthy review because we're talking about the mediator and the deliverer. And we began several days ago with question 15. What kind of mediator and deliverer must we seek? And the answer is that we must have a deliverer who is a true and righteous man, and yet more powerful than all creatures, that is one who is at the same time true God. Why must he be a true and righteous man? He must be a true man because the justice of God requires that the same human nature which has sinned should pay for sin. He must be a righteous man because one who is himself a sinner cannot pay for others. And then why must he be at the same time true God? He must be true God, so that by the power of his divine nature he might bear in his human nature the burden of God's wrath, and might obtain for us and restore to us righteousness and Now we didn't spend a long time on those last couple of lines that he obtains for us and restores to us righteousness and life. That's going to come up a little bit more in today's lesson. And today we get to the very heart of it. And that is the question, who is that mediator who is at the same time true God and a true and righteous man? And the answer, of course, is our Lord Jesus Christ, who has become for us wisdom from God. That is our righteousness, holiness, and redemption. Up until this point, we haven't read the name Jesus in the catechism. It's been gradually step by step leading us to see the need. raising the questions of which only Jesus can be the answer. And it's when we come here that we realize Yeah, there's nobody else who qualifies. There's nobody else who is the Godman. There's nobody else who takes the wrath of God upon himself. There's nobody else who conquers sin and death because there's nobody else who has a true and righteous human nature and a true and eternally powerful divine nature but our Lord Jesus Christ. And so in answering our need in this way, in this person, our Lord Jesus Christ becomes for us wisdom from God. Now, wisdom from God is not You're super smart, you're going to get a perfect score on your SAT, you're going to get a PhD in some really obscure thing, and you're going to be like Mr. Brainiac. No, that's not wisdom from God. Wisdom from God is the answer to your problems. that allows you to live life the way that God intended it to be lived. Wisdom in the biblical sense is living well. In this case, the wisdom from God is the answer to our problems. That allows us to be able to live life the way that God intended us to live. So Jesus Christ has become for us wisdom from God. That is three things. He's our righteousness. He's our holiness, and he is our redemption. Righteousness. He is the fulfillment of the law of God that we need Jesus is all our righteousness. He fulfills the law of God for us, and in him and in him alone, we are righteous Because he's the wisdom from God who is righteousness. Holiness. He's the one who makes us clean, not only righteous, but clean and holy before God. We are holy because he is holy, and we are made holy by his blood shed for us. And he's our redemption, the purchase price that buys us back out of slavery, out of condemnation. into the family of God, into the kingdom of God. He's wisdom from God, He's our righteousness, our holiness, and our redemption. The one who is true God and a true and righteous man, our Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. And today for our scripture studies, I want to look at a couple of key passages in Colossians that just wonderfully plumb the depths of who Jesus is as the answer that we need for the central issue of life and eternity. Jesus is, Colossians 1, 15-20 tells us, Jesus is the image of the invisible God. the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities. All things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body of the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things. whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. This is one of the most rich Christological paragraphs in all of Scripture. Christology is just our knowledge of Christ. This paragraph, Colossians 1, 15 to 20, gives us so much about who Jesus is. We see his divine nature. He's the image of the invisible God. We see his status as the new and second Adam, the firstborn of all creation. It doesn't mean he was created by God. The firstborn of all creation is a position of hierarchy, a position of rule, a position of preeminence, right, of dominion. He's the firstborn of all creation. He's the new Adam, the new and better Adam. Because Adam was the one created to be the firstborn of creation, but he fell, and Jesus is the new and better Adam. New and better Adam, because Adam was created, but Jesus is the one by whom all things were created There's his divine nature. In heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. By him, through him, and for him. That's God. And he's before all things. Again, he's eternal, divine nature. And in him all things hold together. He's the subsistence. the glue, the coherence of the universe. Jesus is. He's the head of the body, his church. That's how he relates to his people. He's our head. He's the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. So he's the the hope of the resurrection. He's not only the one who was resurrected, but as firstborn from the dead, he's the hope of resurrection for all who belong to him. And so in everything he's preeminent. All the fullness of God dwells in him, and then through him he reconciles all things to himself, whether in on earth or in heaven, making peace through the blood of his cross. That's the that's that divine nature bearing up in the human nature, strengthening that human nature to bear up under the wrath of God. This is just a beautiful. So if you want to understand why we talk about Jesus has a divine nature and a human nature and he had to be fully God, He had to be fully man, it's really all packed right in here. in Colossians 1, 15 to 20, and I would commend it to you for further and deeper study. And then we get into Colossians 2, verses 1 to 3, and here's Paul praying for the church. This is the Apostle Paul and how he prays for the church. For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you. and for those at Laodicea, and for all who have not seen me face to face, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ. in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Why are we going through this Heidelberg catechism? Why spend day after day, lesson after lesson, learning these things? Because we want our hearts to be encouraged. We want to be knit together in love and we want to reach the riches of the full assurance and understanding of the knowledge of God's mystery. And that mystery is Christ. Christ, in whom we find all the treasures of the wisdom and knowledge of God. And that's why these questions have been so carefully leading us to see the uniqueness, the power, the provision, the wonder of Christ. As we continue, we're going to continue to plumb those depths But it's for a very real reason. It's not just so that we can be real smart, we can know a bunch of theological terms, and we can have the right answers to the theological quizzes that we might face in life. No. It's so that we would be so deeply assured of what we have in Christ and that we would be knit together in love with everyone else who has the same treasure in Christ. That we would be encouraged. That means we have that gospel comfort. That's another way of talking about our hearts are encouraged. That means we have gospel comfort. to face everything in life and in death because of who Jesus is and what he has done for us. So, who is the one mediator who is at the same time true God and a true and righteous man? It is our Lord Jesus Christ. who has become for us wisdom from God, that is our righteousness, holiness, and redemption. Let's pray Oh Lord God, you've given us the most wonderful, precious, eternal treasure when you sent your one and only Son to become a true human being. to be our wisdom, our righteousness, our holiness, our redemption, our everything is in Jesus. So fill us with Christ Lead us in Christ. Glorify your name in us. In Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me. This is kind of the culmination of this whole first section of the Heidelberg Catechism here in Question 18. I hope it was a blessing to you. Let's respond by worshiping our Lord together. Before the throne of God of us I have a strong and perfect plea, the great high priest name is Whoever lives me for me, my name is praised and on his head, my name is Brave on his heart. I know that while it says No tongue can be this D Bart No tongue can be this Sweet and healthy to despair help me up. I look at the made at the end of all my things because I'm sin. My simple soul is shall get free for God's west thing that is like to the car hearing. I then be to the hunting and I'm not going to be able to do that. My perfect violence, right to pray, the greatest angel I am, the king of glory gets called. What in his fail I cannot die? My soul is perfect by his blood, by rising in the way, Christ don't die. With correct my day or a God With correct my day or a God Only Him tell I can I die My soul is purged by his life, by my victim, Christ on high, Christ my Savior and my God.