We have before us two chapters in Isaiah. I don't know if I scared some of you with my email saying that this was God's providence that I'm going to be preaching on the futility of the world's idols two days before election day, and so it becomes a pre-election sermon. But this is what God has for us, and that is what is before us. So Isaiah 46 and 47, I do want to give you a little bit of orientation before I read the passage. There's some contrast being drawn here between the one true God, Israel's God, Yahweh, and the gods of the Babylonians. In the first seven verses of chapter 46 is a contrast in burden bearing, whereas the gods of the nations have to be carried by their worshipers. God is the one who carries his worshipers. And then at the end of 46 and really going into 47, there's a contrast between who is able to accomplish their purposes, who is able to actually do what they promise. And then at the end of 46, there is a declaration of what we really need, and that is we need God's righteousness and salvation. And then in chapter 47, we get a proclamation of what God is going to do to the enemies of his people, and that is he's going to bring judgment. So this is important for us to hear. This is the word of God, Isaiah 46 and 47. Bell bows down. Nebo stoops. Their idols are on beasts and livestock. These things you carry are borne as burdens on weary beasts. They stoop. They bow down together. They cannot save the burden, but themselves go into captivity. Listen to me, O house of Jacob, all the remnant of the house of Israel who have been born by me from before your birth, carried from the womb. Even to your old age I am he, and to gray hairs I will carry you. I have made and I will bear, I will carry and will save. To whom will you liken me? and make me equal, and compare me, that we may be alike. Those who lavish gold from the purse and weigh out silver in the scales, hire a goldsmith and he makes it into a God, then they fall down and worship. They lift it to their shoulders. They carry it. They set it in its place. And it s Stands there. It cannot move from its place. If one cries to it, it does not answer or save him from his trouble. Remember this and stand firm. Recall it to mind, you transgressors. Remember the former things of old, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and And there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times, things not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose. calling a bird of prey from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country, I have spoken, and I will bring it to pass. I have purposed and I will do it. Listen to me You stubborn of heart, you who are far from righteousness, I bring near my righteousness. It is not far off, and my salvation will not delay. I will put salvation in Zion for Israel my glory. Come down and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon, sit on the ground without a throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans, for you shall no more be called tender and delicate. Take the millstone and grind flour. Put off your veil, strip off your robe, uncover your legs, pass through the rivers, your nakedness will be uncovered, and your disgrace will be seen. I will take vengeance And I will spare no one. Our Redeemer, the Lord of hosts is his name, is the Holy One of Israel. Sit in silence and go into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans, for you shall no more be called the mistress of the kingdoms. I was angry with my people, I profaned my heritage, I gave them into your hand. You showed them no mercy On the aged you made your yoke exceedingly heavy. You said, I shall be mistress forever, so that you did not lay these things to heart or remember their end. Now therefore hear this, you lover of pleasures, who sit securely, who say in your heart, I am, and there is no one besides me I shall not sit as a widow or know the loss of children. These two things shall come to you in a moment. In one day, the loss of children and widowhood shall come upon you in full measure in spite of your many sorceries and the great power of your enchantments You felt secure in your wickedness. You said, No one sees me. Your wisdom and your knowledge led you astray, and you said in your heart, I am, and there is no one besides me. But evil shall come upon you, which you will not know how to charm away Disaster shall fall upon you, for which you will not be able to atone, and ruin shall come upon you suddenly, of which you know nothing. Stand fast in your enchantments and your many sorceries with which you have labored from your youth. Perhaps you may be able to succeed. Perhaps you may inspire terror You have wearied with your many counsels. Let them stand forth and save you, those who divide the heavens, who gaze at the stars, who at the new moons make known what shall come upon you. Behold, they are like stubble. The fire consumes them. They cannot deliver themselves from the power of the flame. No coal for warming oneself as this, no fire to sit before. Such to you Are those with whom you have labored, who have done business with you from your youth. They wander about, each in his own direction, and there is no one to save. This is God's holy word. Let's pray. Father, you are the one true God, the living God of heaven and earth who rules over the nations. We are your people. We're gathered here this morning because we need to hear from you. The world talks to us every day of our lives. Our flesh cries out for satisfaction every day of our lives. We must. On this Lord's Day, we must take time to hear from you. So speak, O Lord. Give us ears to hear, give us hearts to receive and respond. We pray In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I love the book of Daniel. It's one of my favorite books in the Bible. It's such a great book for understanding how to live. in a pagan culture, which is where we're living. The book of Daniel has two of the best known stories in the whole Bible. Daniel in the lion's den, and Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the fiery furnace. Almost anyone who knows anything about the Bible knows those two great stories. Stories of men of God who refused to fear the threats of the world or to bow to the world's idols. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, they were threatened with a fiery furnace if they would not bow down and worship Nebuchadnezzar's ninety-foot-tall golden statue. Everyone else was doing it. The music was playing, the peer pressure was intense. The legal authorities were threatening death, but they would not bow. Decades later, we find Daniel as an old man serving King Darius. of it the next kingdom, the Medo-Persian Empire. And he's told, you can't pray to any other God but the king. King Darius, who's no God at all, and Daniel says, uh, I'm going to go home, I'm going to open my windows, and I'm going to pray just like I did before in the sight of everyone, because I will not obey this law that is an offense to God. All of these men refused. They did not tremble before the threats of these wicked kings and They were rescued by God. But one thing that we overlook with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego sometimes is that they were going to obey God, whether God rescued them or not. When King Nebuchadnezzar threatened, if you do not worship, you shall immediately be cast into a burning, fiery furnace. And who is the God who will deliver you out of my hands? This is Babylon. This is what we're hearing here in 47, especially, Babylon saying, I am, and there's no one besides me that mocking God, aping God. Nebuchadnezzar is like, who can possibly deliver you out of my hands? Well Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego they answered. They said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. If this be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. And he will deliver us out of your hand, O king. But if not Be it known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up. Daniel also, we have no record of him boasting that he knew for sure that the lions weren't going to be able to touch him. He obeyed. He trusted God. He acted in obedience. Now, I think they were prepared. for these acts of obedience in the face of danger by the earlier act of obedience in chapter 1, which was an act of obedience in the face of offered delicacies. They refused to bow at the threats of the world because they had already resolved, as young men, as teenage boys really, being taken from Jerusalem to Babylon, they had resolved not to bow. and give in to the false promises of the world. They were offered delicacies from Nebuchadnezzar's table, from the king's table. They were going to be feasted. And they wouldn't take it. Now some people speculated, why wouldn't they take the delicacies from the king's table? And some people have said, well, maybe it's because they wanted to keep the Jewish dietary laws and they knew that they wouldn't be able to get keep the dietary laws because there's probably pork and all sorts of unclean foods. Well, if that was the case, they could have picked and chosen. They could have just had the lamb and the beef and they could have said no to the pork chops But that wasn't the issue. The issue is that any meat, especially, that would have been served at Nebuchadnezzar's table would have been offered up to his God. Our passage opens today with a reference to Bel and Nebo. Bel bows down, Nebo stoops. These are the two primary gods of the Babylonians, Bel and Nebo And in fact, the the the two kings of the Babylonians that are mentioned in the Bible, what are their names? Nebo, Kidnezzar. and Bel Shazar. They're named after their gods. Nebo Kadnezer means Nebo protects against misfortune. And so certainly the food that was served to King Nebuchadnezzar would have been offered up in sacrifice to Nebo. And it was coming with a double promise: an earthly promise of the protection and favor of the king, and a spiritual promise of the protection and blessing of Nebo. And that's why the four Hebrew youths could not eat. They could not eat food that was sacrificed to an idol. They could not give their consent to this false worship of a false god. So they refused. They wanted only vegetables and water, because you don't sacrifice vegetables to a god. They trusted in the Lord. They said no to the false promises of the world. They They entrusted themselves to the Lord. They were kept by the Lord. They were shown to be healthier and fitter than any of the people who took the delicacies of the king's table. And on the basis of that confidence, they went forward and they were able to not bow the need. before the golden idol and not pray to King Darius. I wonder If a large part of the problem of Christians today who live in fear of the world's threats, ready to act in fear and anger to protect themselves, or to trust in some idolatrous means of protection instead of joyfully and confidently trusting in the Lord. I wonder if a large part of the problem is because we've given in to the temptation to trust the world's promises more than the promises of God. If somehow the world's promises are more real, more deeply motivating than the promises of God, then the world's threats. are going to make you tremble with fear and react in sinful anger because at the root of your heart, what has happened is you've given in to the temptation to take the things of the world more seriously than the things of God. Sometimes I'll be sharing spiritual counsel from God's Word with someone. And I can just kind of tell by the look on their face. Most of the time they're too polite to say it out loud. But I can kind of tell by the look on their face they're thinking Okay, Pastor, you're giving me all this Bible advice and all this spiritual advice, but I've got like a real-world problem I'm dealing with here. As if somehow the God of the universe who rules over heaven and earth doesn't really rule over our lives and doesn't have anything to do with our lives. We are always, hopefully from this section of Isaiah we've gotten this message, we are always, always being tempted To either trust in the idols of the world or trust in the Lord God for our daily bread, for our daily sustenance, for our protection, for our blessing. And so there are contrasts in this passage. The first contrast has to do with burden bearing. The gods of the nations have to be carried by They're makers. They're first of all, they're made by their worshipers, and then they're carried by their worshipers. Isn't that the way the world's idols still work? How do they become idols? The world makes them that, exalts them. And then how do they get carried? They get carried by the world. They don't really have any power in and of themselves. But what does God say? Listen to me, O house of Jacob, the remnant of the house of Israel, who have been born by me from before your birth. Carried from the womb even to old age, I am he, and to gray hairs I will carry you. You. I have made and I will bear, I will carry, and will save. Whether it's little Cassidy or little Isabel or The little baby that's in Megan's womb now, or whether it's someone as old as me, or maybe even older. God's carrying us all. Every day. Every bit of blessing we have. That's why I think I've encouraged that this month be set aside. I think God's given it to us. It's usually the the first Sunday in Advent is always the Sunday after Thanksgiving. And usually it falls sometime in late November. And I would never think about it until December. Well, this year, that first Sunday in Advent is December 1st, which means we have the full Thanksgiving season, 30 days to set aside and give thanks. Thanks and and pr and prepare our hearts for the Advent season where we get to give thanks again for the greatest gift God's given us in His Son. But to give thanks every day is to realize we are the receivers. We are the blessed, we are the carried. We are the sustained The gods of this world are a burden to their devotees. Babylonians were known for making these huge idols, and the only way to cart them around was to have huge beasts of burden. that would cart them around from place to place. And one of the things that would happen when a city got conquered is their gods, their gods would be taken into exile and they would be put in the temple of the conquering civilization. Just like remember the story in 1 Samuel when when the Ark of the Covenant is cast And it's taken away, and it's put in the temples of the Philistines, and all the Philistine gods that Dagon bows down before the Ark of the Covenant. Importantly, the Ark of the Covenant is not a statue of God. It's a symbol of his footstool, the idea his throne is in heaven, and this is his footstool where he meets with with his people on earth. But worldly idols demand high loyalty And a high cost from their worshippers. Think about the things that people pursue idolatrously, that we're tempted to pursue idolatrously. They're expensive. They're time-consuming. They're a burden. They make promises that they don't usually keep. We'll get to that in a minute. But worshipers of idols also tend to get angry at people who are not following their idol. Because they're giving so much for it and it's so important to them. And why aren't you getting on board with it? That's why we have this threat of Of course we're all going to worship the same idol. What's your problem? Get on board. Worship this idol with us. And if you say, no, I can't, the world Some of you have dealt with this with sports leagues with your kids. Yes, somebody go there. You've said church is really important to us on Sunday. We don't want to miss worship. So sorry if there are games scheduled Sunday mornings, we're not going to be there. Well, you don't you care about the team? Aren't you committed? Well, not above church, no. And then it's like, what's wrong with you? And there's other things too. I mean Do you know the difference between a hobby, an obsession, and an idol? A hobby is something you enjoy. It does cost usually to engage in a hobby, but you enjoy it. You welcome others to enjoy it with you. If you can't enjoy it, it's okay. You're okay if you can't enjoy it. An obsession is something that you feel compelled to do, whether you're really enjoying it or not, and it's not okay if you can't do it. And then is that does get into being an idol. Because an idol then is something You get angry about when it's threatened or when others won't recognize it or go along with you on it. Some of you, not just with sports leagues, but with family gatherings that are on Sunday days. Oh, you can miss church? We've got Aunt Jane's cr uh birthday party. Just Skip church, come to the birth. No, we'll be late because we're going to go to church first. What? Don't you care about your family? Doesn't God ask you to care about your family Well yeah, but God asks me to worship him together with his people, and we're going to worship, and then we're going to go to the family gathering. We'll be a little bit late. Well you are gonna bring your dish, right? Yeah, I'll bring it, but it'll be a little bit late. That usually appeases them. But these are the things I mean how different is the Lord? How different is the Lord. We've been carried by Him. He saves us by His grace. He sustains us every day. He refreshes and renews us when we are weary. The idols make us weary and lay heavy burdens on us, but Jesus says, Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is Light. Instead of being a burden to us, God invites us to cast all of our burdens on Him, knowing that He cares for us. 1 Peter 5. 7 So the contrast is not just between burden bearing, it's also found in promise keeping and in purpose accomplishment. God says in chapter 46, verses 9 to 11, I am God, there is no other, I am God, there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times things not yet done. saying, My counsel shall stand, I will accomplish my purpose, calling a bird of prey from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country, I have spoken and I will bring it to pass. I have purpose and I will do it. And of Babylon and her gods, in chapter 47, you said, I shall be mistress forever. You did not lay these things to heart or remember their end. Now hear this, you lover of pleasures, who sit securely, who say in your heart, I am, and there is no one besides me, I shall not sit as a widow, or know the loss of children These two things shall come upon you in a moment, in one day, the loss of children and widowhood shall come upon you in full measure, in spite of your many sorceries and the great power of your enchantment. We've really got two competing purposes. And we need to remember, the prophet Isaiah is actually prophesying all of this a hundred plus years before Babylon is the leading power able to take the people of God into captivity. So this is a hundred years before they go into captivity. And already he's saying about how their captivity is going to end. But you've got two competing purposes. God's purpose is to release his people from Babylonian captivity, return them to their homeland. To do this, he's called Cyrus the Great from Persia to conquer Babylon and release his people. But Babylon, on the other hand, has purposed that she will sit and reign over God's people and her great empire forever. And will know no loss. And to to to boast in this, she even imitates God and says, I am, and there is no one besides me twice in chapter 47. But Babylon's claims were false, and her purposes failed. Remember the handwriting on the wall of the book of Daniel, chapter 5? Belshazzar was celebrating. He was celebrating with the gold vessels from the temple of the Lord, partying. The Persian army was outside the city, but they're offering up drink offerings and praises to their gods Using the very vessels of the Lord from the temple. And then God's hand writes on the wall, and the king is terrified. And the message comes. It's over. Party's over, King. That very night. What God says here, it'll come upon you in one day. It happened. That night. Persian army found a way into the city. It was over. It was all over. From partying one night to grieving and mourning the next day and watching their idols be carried off into Exile, it was over because the claims and purposes of all worldly idols will fail. When Hitler took power, he proclaimed the Third Reich. The First Reich was the Roman Empire, the Second Reich. was the Holy Roman Empire. He's going to have the Third Reich, and he said it was a Reich that would last a thousand years. It lasted twelve. When Mussolini took power, he declared that the calendars in Italy should be stopped and restarted, counting year one as the year of his ascension into power. By the way, the French Revolutionaries did the same thing when they threw out the old Christian calendar and declared year one of the republic. Well, all those are history, and here we sit in the year of our Lord 2024. Because God's purposes stand. And what are God's purposes? God's purpose is to save and glorify his people. He is the great I am. There is in fact no one besides him. He can and he will accomplish his purposes. Think of all the reasons why the idols of the world give excuses why they can't get done the things that they promise Well, I could just couldn't make it happen. I just couldn't get the votes. I it just ran out of resources. We went so far over budget that we just couldn't really get it done. I changed my mind. I thought it was a good idea, but then I realized it wasn't such a great idea. God never has any of those problems. God never changes his mind. mind about what he's going to do. He never runs out of resources. He's never unable to accomplish his purposes. He will accomplish his purposes. And here's where we get to the rub Because what God has purposed to do, he gives us, right at the end of chapter 46, and it may be different from what we want him to do. What are God's purposes? God's purposes are to give righteousness and salvation to his people. Listen to me, you stubborn of heart. You who are far from righteousness, I bring near my righteousness. It's not far off. My salvation will not delay. I will put salvation in Zion for Israel my glory. Whatever else we might think we need, what we actually need is righteousness and salvation. Righteousness gives us a right standing before God so that we can be justified. We can be Okay, before God, our sins forgiven. Salvation means God will rescue us. He will deliver us from sin and death and from this fallen world. And ultimately he will bring us in to the new heavens and the new earth. This is what we need, and this is what God brings us. But the main reason why even Christians turn to idols instead of the true and living God is that Idols promise us what we want. God promises us what we need. And there's a difference between those two things. things. What do we want? Generally most idols are peddling. It's a very limited menu of what they're peddling. Pleasure? Security? Power or status, pride. We talked about this before. Lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life, something like that. It's on that menu. It's all about you. For eight years, from 2003 to 2011, I served as head of school at New Covenant Christian School And one of the jobs I had was to interview prospective families who were coming in. And one of the questions that I would often ask is: what are your goals for your children? What do you really want for them? The most common answer I got, Christian, non-Christian, it really didn't make a difference. Christian, non-Christian would say the same thing to me. I just want my children to be happy and successful at whatever they choose to do. That was the answer. I just, I just want my children to be happy and successful at whatever they choose to do. I almost could have written it down on a card for them and handed it to them and had them read it off If your faith in Christ makes no difference in what you want for the lives of your children, what difference does it really make in your life? Well then what's the right answer? We should want our children to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. We know that. The world's tricked us into thinking, oh, that's a church answer. We need something different for the practical realities of day-to-day. No, I want my children to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. Day by day in their lives. Way back in 2000, Gene Armstrong brought this back to my memory when we celebrated Don Dove's 25 years in ministry. Way back in the summer of 2000, I got to go to Victory Jam, which was a middle school retreat. This was back when uh Liz was too young to go. Not even in middle school yet. They were asked at that retreat, what do you want in life as an adult? What would you have to have in your life as an adult for you to have a good life? What would you want? Here's what the kids said. Want a happy marriage. Want a good family. Decent place to live. Want a good paying job. Want to find satisfaction in my work. I want a secure life. Oh, I want a good church. So the guy wrote down everything they said on a whiteboard, and he said You know what? If all I did was erase a good church, the rest of this would look exactly the same as if I got together a group of non-Christian kids and asked them what they wanted out of me. He said, so what difference is Christ making in what you want out of life? If your treasure is the American dream plus Jesus on top as a cherry, you're laying up treasures. on earth. And Jesus said, Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. But then Jesus also said, Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Does God know that you need to have a good-paying job to provide for your family? Of course. Does God know that you need food and clothing? Of course. Go reread that section of the Sermon on the Mount. We went over it at the marriage conference. If if God knows what you need, He will care for it. What we need to do is focus on the priorities of the Lord's Prayer. It was a good memory test earlier. But we prayed the Lord's Prayer together. It's not just something to recite in church from time to time. Jesus gave it to us as a pattern. for how we are to pray and how we are to pray is to overflow from how we think and what we value. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. That's first. God be glorified. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Not my kingdom come, my will be done, but thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. We need forgiveness, and we need to extend forgiveness. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom. And the power and the glory forever. God promises to give us righteousness and salvation. He gives it to us in Jesus Christ. And in Jesus Christ, we have everything we need. Yeah, but we live in a culture that's turning away from God. It's turning away from even tolerating Christianity is a good thing. It's becoming more hostile to the Christian faith. It's more anti-Christian. Well, God will take care of that too The Babylonian culture certainly wasn't pro-Yahweh. It didn't generally think that having all these Jews in their midst was a good thing. Remember the book of um Esther? There were people in every city and town all over the empire who were ready to kill all the Jews. But God was their protection. This is what chapter 47 talks about, how God is going to bring judgment. One day God's going to bring judgment. He's gonna bring it. And he'll keep us until that day. Doesn't mean we won't face hardship, but he'll keep us. Maybe he'll keep us the same way he kept the apostles. Do you believe the apostles were kept by the Lord? Yeah. The Apostle Paul could write in the last chapter that he wrote, 2 Timothy 4, he could write, I have run the race, I have kept the faith, now there is laid up In store for me the crown of glory which the Lord has not only for me, but for all who long for his appearing. And then he went and was beheaded. The Lord kept him and the Lord blessed him. The bottom line of what it means to live The way God calls us to live is not to tremble before the world's threats and not to pant after the Lord's threats. promises, after the world's promises. Not to tremble before the world's threats, not to pant after the world's promises. But to tremble and trust in the Lord alone. So election day is the day after tomorrow. Some of you I should say some of us. I'm human too. Some of us are at times trembling at the thought of the wrong person taking office. Maybe you're also trusting in the right person to make things right if they take office. And I think what Isaiah 46 and 47 would say to us is Stop trembling before people, stop trusting in people, tremble before and trust in the Lord alone. And if you think that's not practical, we live in the real world, elections have real world consequences, yes. By all means vote your conscience. I'm not saying don't vote your conscience. But even when we think and talk like that, yeah, but we've got to we've got to do something because elections have consequences Do we believe that God rules over the world and the nations of this world? If the thought enters your mind, America needs blank to win this election or we're doomed. And I would encourage you to change your whole way of thinking. First of all, why is your hope set on America and not the kingdom of God? Second, does God need a specific person to be in office in order to work his will? Third, do you think God is up in heaven sweating the outcome of the election? Oh man, how's that boat gonna break in Pennsylvania? And fourth, and perhaps most importantly, will the call of God on your life change one bit based on who wins and who loses on Tuesday? No. I saw a little video on Facebook last night. I'd already written all my sermons, everything. It was a Christian musician, very wise. He said he was asked by some youth Who I guess we're kind of aspiring musicians. He was asked, how did you know that God's will for your life was for you to do music? And he said, It's not. What do you mean? He said it's not. If I was convinced that God's will for my life was for me to do music, what if all of a sudden I couldn't do music anymore? The circumstances of your life are not what determines God's will for your life. 1 Thessalonians 5, 16 to 18, rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for years. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances. So Believe in Jesus. Place 100% of your hopes and fears in his hands. Love God and love your neighbors, all of your neighbors. Spread the gospel in your words and actions. Ask the Lord to lead you in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Trust him for the things you need in this life. Do not be anxious for tomorrow, but take each day as it comes as a gift from God, and fear God, not people. That's my election advice for you. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are in control. Jesus, you are King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and your name is not on the ballot on Tuesday. You are the unimpeachable, unremovable, sovereign, holy, eternal King. And you are our King. You are our Lord. May we follow you, fear you, trust you, rejoice in you, believe you, live for you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.