Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. It is good to be with you. In week nine, as we wrap up this week, we have one more catechism question to look at. We're moving on to question number 25 as we're thinking about the Trinity. What we must believe in About God is what's revealed to us in the gospel, and what's revealed to us in the gospel can be summarized in the Apostles' Creed. And among the things the Apostles' Creed reveals to us, even in the structure of the Creed itself, is the doctrine of the Trinity, which is a biblical doctrine. Profound mystery, but something worth thinking about. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your gracious love. for the gift of life that we have in your Son Jesus, and for the truth that we have, summarized for us in the Apostles' Creed and taught to us by the Heidelberg Catechism, all drawn from your word, from your self-revelation. We thank you for this gift in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. We are going to start with some review, as we usually do. We're going to go back all the way to question 22. What then must a Christian believe? Our faith has to have content. What must a Christian believe? All that is promised to us in the gospel. Which the articles of our Catholic and undoubted Christian faith teach us in a summary. Again, Catholic just means universal. So the articles of our universal worldwide, but also throughout the ages, Christians all over the world, Christians throughout time. have held this undoubted Christian faith, which is taught to us in a summary called known as the Apostles' Creed. What are these articles? Question 23 asks. I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit. born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and buried. He descended into hell On the third day he rose again from the dead, he ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. So Then question 24 says, how are these articles divided? And it's pretty evident, but we're told here it's divided into three parts. These 12 articles are divided into three parts. The first is about God the Father and our creation. The second, about God the Son and our redemption. The third, about God the Holy Spirit, and our sanctification. And we looked at that last time in some detail. Well then picking up with this Trinitarian language, question 25 asks, since there is only one God Why do you speak of three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit? And the answer is very clear, because God has so revealed Himself in His Word. that these three distinct persons are one true eternal God. This is a good summary of what we believe about the Trinity. There is one God. There is one true eternal God. There is only one God. And yet, he has revealed himself in his word that these three distinct persons of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are the one true and eternal God. We know there's one God because the earliest creed that we have in the Bible, another example of how the Bible gives us creeds, is here, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is. But you know, even from the very beginning of the Bible, there's something interesting about God The Hebrew word for God, whenever you see the word God, it's the word Elohim. And Elohim with the ending em is plural. It's kind of like putting an S on the end of a word. sort of. But it's plural. It means mighty ones. And yet, from the very beginning, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. So this very first sentence of the Bible is in the beginning, and then what looks like the gods but then a single verb created as in he created. So it has it carries with it Elohim carries with it a sense of plurality, and yet always in the Bible it takes a singular Verb, he, because there's one God. One place where we see this again in the very first chapter of Scripture This plurality within the Godhead, and yet singularity, is in the very creation of man, male and female, in Genesis 1, 26 and 27. Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens. and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image In the image of God he created him, male and female he created them. So Let us make man in our image after our likeness. There's that plurality language, right? But then when God actually does it, so God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. So again, even this word Elohim, which is here, has a plurality within it and yet a singular verb. And when God speaks, God's taking counsel with God. Again, let us make man in our Who's God talking to? Himself in counsel. This is a hint. It's a hint. That within the one of God there is plurality. We move on. And when Jesus comes into the world, a very interesting thing happens at his baptism. Who is Jesus? The Son of God? Yes, because God Himself says so from heaven He's also God the Son. The Son of God is God the Son. He is God. The Word of God made flesh, God in human form. The Spirit of God. Who is the Spirit of God? He's not some Spirit separate from God. He's the Spirit of God. Yet look at what happens at Jesus' baptism And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him. And he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him, and behold a voice. From heaven said, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. Here we have Jesus being baptized, the Spirit of God descending upon him from heaven, and then the Father speaking from heaven. saying, this is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. It's clear that these are three distinct persons acting And yet Jesus is God in human flesh, the Spirit of God is God, the Spirit of God, and the Father is God, and the Father is speaking. So we really have three persons acting. But all three of these persons are God, and yet there is only one God. Is that hard to understand? It's impossible to truly comprehend, but it's clearly what's being revealed to us here Again, if we believe that Jesus is truly God, and he became human flesh, and his father remained in heaven and was pleased with him, and he did everything to please his father. and the Spirit descends from the Father to the Son to empower him, we're left with the only conclusion, which is that there must be three persons who are one God. John 1 says this. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him. We saw this last time in Genesis 1. It's the word spoken that God the Father created through. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of man, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Jesus is unique as the only Son from the Father. He's unique as being full of grace and truth. He has a unique glory because he is the Word of God who is with God and who is God. He's the one through whom everything was created. He is the life That is the light of men. Again, we're talking about God and his word. Are we talking about two gods? No. We're talking about one God, and yet you can make a distinction between God and His Word, or between the Father and the Son. Jump forward a little bit to Galatians chapter 4. And Paul says this to us as believers, because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. God here is talking about the Father. And the Spirit is the Holy Spirit of His Son, of Jesus, into our hearts, crying, Abba Father. So we have all three persons of the Godhead involved here. And we have, by the Spirit, the joyful privilege of calling upon God as our Father. Why? Because we are in the Son, and the Son is in us by the Holy Spirit. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And yet how many gods are there? There's just one God. One more. Hebrews 1, 6 to 9. Talking about the Son. Again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, let all God's angels worship him. God's angels only worship God. God would never direct his angels to worship non-God. That would be blasphemous, that would be idolatrous, that would be sinful, that would just be wrong, and it would really undo the fabric of reality. for God to command angels to worship something other than God. So when he brings his firstborn into the world, he says, let all God's angels worship him, because the Son is God to be worshipped. Of the angels, he says, he makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire. But of the sun, he says, your throne, O God, is forever and ever The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. This is actually a quote from a psalm. It's clearly talking about God and God's eternal reign. And it is applied here to the scepter of Son. The Son who has loved righteousness and hated wickedness, therefore God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. This is hard for us to wrap our minds around. God has a God? Yes, because the Son has a father. within the Trinity of the Godhead. It's the only way that Scripture makes sense is to embrace the doctrine of the Trinity. I said one more, but really I meant one more. Don't you hate it when preachers do that? And finally, and then you go on with four other points, this is truly the last scripture, and it's from the last book of the Bible. Revelation Opens with God the Father speaking and saying in chapter 1, verse 8, I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God. who is and who was and who is to come the Almighty. Now, this expression, who is and who was and who is to come, this is an unpacking of the Hebrew I am. Remember at the burning bush in Exodus 3, God revealed himself to Moses and said, I am who I am? Well, that Hebrew verb, the I am who I am, is really I am who I always was and always will be. It has a timeless aspect to it. And so God is the one who is and who was and who is to come because he is the Alpha and the Omega. That's chapter 1, verse 8. Jump ahead to the end of the book. At the very end of the book, in the last chapter, Jesus speaks, and he says, Behold, I am coming soon. Who's coming soon? Jesus is coming soon. Bringing my recompense with me to repay each one for what he has done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. So the Lord God says that in 1. 8, and Jesus says the exact same thing in 22. 13, because Jesus is truly God, and yet he's sent by the Father. Because there is a distinction between Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. So you put all the witness of Scripture together, and I could give you a lot more, but this is just a short devotional study. And we come back to our question. Since there is only one God, why do you speak of three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit? And the answer is because God has so revealed Himself in His word that these three distinct persons Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, are the one true eternal God. pray. Oh Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, our God, Almighty, thank you for revealing yourself to us. Because to know you is to have eternal life. And we would not know you unless you had revealed yourself. Thank you. Help us to live in the knowledge of you. Help us to live by faith in you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, let's respond to this lesson on the Trinity by singing my favorite Trinitarian hymn, Holy, Holy, Holy. Holy holy god of my Holy, holy, holy mercy. Beautiful and viety God in repository. Holy, holy, holy. Hold the nature totally casting down the golden crown the ground. Under the last three generation. Holy, holy, holy. Go to the darkness, come like Holy, holy, holy, Lord God. All our works shall praise thy name and guy and he Holy, holy, whole God in three posters, let the train seek