Isaiah 65, we'll read verses 17 to 25 of Isaiah 65, and then we'll skip over to 66, and we'll read verses 15 to 24. These two passages at the end of Isaiah that deal with the end of this age and the end of this world. Hear God's holy word. For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. No more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress. No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his days, for the young man shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed. They shall build houses and inhabit them. They shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit. They shall not build and another inhabit. They shall not plant and another eat. For like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands. They shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity, for they shall be the offspring of the blessed of the Lord and their descendants with them. Before they call, I will answer. While they are yet speaking, I will hear. The wolf and the lamb shall graze together. The lion shall eat straw like the ox, and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, says the Lord For behold, the Lord will come in fire, and his chariots like the whirlwind, to render his anger in fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire. For by fire will the Lord enter into judgment, and by his sword with all flesh, and those slain by the Lord shall be many. Those who sanctify and purify themselves to go into the gardens, following one in the midst, eating pigs' flesh and the abomination and mice shall come to an end together, declares the Lord. For I know their works and their thoughts, and the time is coming to gather all nations and tongues, and they shall come and see my glory. And I will set a sign among them. And from them I will send survivors to the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, to those who draw the bow, to Tubal and to Javan. To the coastlands far away that have not heard my name or seen my glory, and they shall declare my glory among the nations. And they shall bring all your brothers from all the nations as an offering to the Lord, on horses and in chariots, and in litters and on mules. And dromedaries to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says the Lord, just as the Israelites bring their grain offering in a clean vessel to the house of the Lord. And some of them Also I will take for priests and for Levites, says the Lord. For as the new heavens and the new earth that I make shall remain before me, says the Lord. So shall your offspring and your name remain. From new moon to new moon, and from Sabbath to Sabbath, all flesh shall come and worship before me, declares the Lord. And they shall go out and look on the dead bodies of those men who have rebelled against me, for their worm shall not die, and their fire shall not be quenched And they shall be an abhorrence to all flesh. Thus far, the reading of God's Holy Word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. We long to hear from you. We have heard your words. We need to understand them. And we need to believe them. And we need to live our lives in response to them. And we pray that you, by the power of your Holy Spirit, would work in our hearts, in our minds, to show us the truth. To help us to love Jesus and to follow after you until we see you face to face. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, Shakespeare famously wrote that life is a tale told by an idiot. Full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. And one of the dangers whenever you hear a Shakespeare quote, Shakespeare said, Shakespeare didn't say that. Macbeth said that. Because Shakespeare wrote lots of things for characters in plays to say at certain times, and it doesn't mean that Shakespeare thought that life was a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury and signify nothing But Macbeth says those words right after he hears the news that his wife has died by suicide. She was overwhelmed with despair and guilt and could see no way to be forgiven for the treachery that she and her husband had entered into. Because they had killed the King of Scotland so that her husband could have his throne. And so Macbeth is convinced that basically everything's meaningless. He's been driven into despair. And perhaps in that moment also, for Macbeth, it would be better if life was a tale told by an idiot full of sex. Home as a guest and had blessed and protected him. Well, like Macbeth, Shakespeare's Hamlet also asked some important questions and said some important things about the meaning of life in a world of seeming Meaninglessness. Hamlet wasn't the perpetuator of unjust violence. He was a victim of it. His father had been killed by his uncle. who had then quickly married his mother, and once Hamlet hears the truth of all of this, he is struck to the core and he is thrown into despair and he is questioning. He wants revenge, he wants justice. But he's also thinking of ending it all himself because he's so overwhelmed by the state of things. And so he famously asks, to be or not to be? That is the question. And later, as he's pondering ending his life, he thinks of what might come afterwards, as he famously says, and in that sleep of death, what dreams may come Come when we have shuffled off our mortal coil, must give us pause. Shakespeare has remained popular and performed in the English-speaking world for 400 years because he asks the important questions about life. Is there meaning? Where is justice? Is there forgiveness? Where can it be found? How do we know where is all of this even going anyway? These are the big questions that we all ask. At times we look at the news and we look at the state of the world and we might be tempted to think what Macbeth was thinking. It's just a Tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury signifying nothing. This person kills that person, that person kills this other person, this nation goes to war with that nation, and over and over and round and round it goes. But deep down We have these longings. We have these longings and these and this knowledge that that somehow life and love and justice are real and valuable. And we carry these things in us because we're made in the image of God. And we do reflect His character, although we do so very poorly. We we find ourselves in the middle of a story where everything has gone pear-shaped and we're wondering where it's all going. Meaninglessness might seem like the most obvious answer, but deep down we know there must be something more. Where is this story heading and how can we know? We come today to the end of the book of Isaiah. And it is the conclusion of the story that God has been telling. We've spent the past three years looking at this story. It's the story of a God who loves his people and who has called his people to trust him and to follow him, but those people have rebelled. Again and again, they've said, no, we're not going to trust you and follow you. We're going to make alliances, political alliances with nations, we're going to go serve idols. We're going to turn a deaf ear to your word. We're going to go our own way. And rather than just saying, well, Who cares? I'll just blow it up because it's all a mess. God says something different. He says, I'm going to send a Redeemer. And the Redeemer is going to come. And we see the most beautiful portrait of him in Isaiah 53. We saw that a few months ago. This Redeemer is going to come and he's going to bear the iniquity, the sin, the wickedness, the rebellion of God's people in his own body. He's going to take the punishment. so that his people can be forgiven. And we saw how in amazing detail, down to stripes and piercing, and being buried in a rich man's tomb, and rising again. The details of Jesus were told to us in a book that was written down more than 700 years before he was born. This book also predicts the spread of the gospel all over the face of the earth to every people, which is echoed here in Isaiah 66 at the very end. Because God has sent a redeemer and God has good news for the world. But I have a concern. Because I have a concern that many Christians, especially in America in the 21st century, where we have an attention span only a microsecond longer than that of a gnat. That we have this very reductionistic understanding of the gospel. And like, well what is the Christian message? What is Christianity all about? What's this Jesus thing all about? And we say, well, Jesus died on the cross for my sins. so that I can be forgiven and I can go to heaven and be with him when I die. And I say, oh. And you might have some idea of, oh, a great commission. God wants us to take that message all over the world. Tell everybody. Jesus died on the cross for your sins, so that you can trust in him and you can be forgiven of your sins and you can go to heaven when you die. And that's true, but it's terribly incomplete. Because God is doing something so much more than just forgiving our sins and just taking us to heaven when we die. Remember Humpty Dumpty? If you don't know Shakespeare, I'm sure you know Humpty Dumpty. Right? He sat on a wall. He had a great fall. And then what? All the king's horses and all the king's men. Couldn't put Humpty back together again. And what if you come along and just say, that's okay. Humpty will go to heaven when he dies It seems like okay, but is it gonna get put back together You see, we live in a broken world, a world that's been broken by sin. You know it. You don't need me to tell you that. People get sick, people die. Wars are started over the stupidest things, and millions of people are killed. People hate other people for no other reason than that they look different than them or speak different than them, and it is a mess. Is it ever going to get put back together again? Yes. The end of the story is, yes, God is going to make it better than it ever was. At the beginning of the story, God had made a world that he could look at in all of his holiness and he could say, it is very good. It is full of life, it is full of love, it is full of peace. And here are people made in my image who are going to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth with the love and the image of the character of God. It was very good. And then it went very bad because of foolish selfishness. And God is not just in the process of forgiving individual people's sins. so that individuals can go to heaven when they die. God is in the process of gathering together a people for himself from every tribe and tongue and people and nation on the face of the earth to reconcile us to himself and to one another. So that we can see ourselves as being brothers and sisters, a part of the family of God, with people who look very differently than we do, who live very differently than we do, but we trust in the same Savior and we worship the same God and we're headed to the same place. And when it is all said and done, God says he will make it all right and better than it ever has been. The end of Isaiah 65, the first passage I read, tells how God intends to make a broken world whole again. God promises he's going to make a new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered, nor come to mind. The brokenness will be powerfully undone. And that will lead to eternal joy. Be glad and rejoice forever. in that which I create. Have you ever think about moments of real joy in your life. What would you say if I if I were to play one of those top five games like you see on, you know social media or whatever on what are the top five most joyful moments in your life? If you're married, hopefully you'll say your wedding day. If you're a parent, hopefully you'll say the birth of your children. Right? So that takes care of four for me. And then there are others, right? There are others. And one of them for me, and if you're a believer, maybe you have this day, maybe you don't have a particular day. But maybe there were moments, maybe there were times. I remember a particular day in 1988 When I was singing with uh Christian choir in Germany, the messengers, and we were doing a concert, and a couple of guys from the choir were doing uh When God Ran, which is a beautiful song from the 1980s. All great music in the 1980s. It's where it all has its origins. Anyway. But there's a beautiful song for the 1980s called When God Ran, and it struck me I had been I had been rebellious, I knew who the Lord was, I identified as a Christian, but I had been just living a really rebellious lifestyle. and just kind of doing whatever I wanted to do and being really foolish and irresponsible. And that song is about the prodigal son and it's about seeing ourselves as that prodigal son. The only time I ever saw God run is when he ran to me and And he took me in his arms and he said, My child's come home again. And I just started weeping. I'm standing up here on stage in the middle of a choir of 150 people or so, and I'm just Balling my eyes out. Well, these guys are singing this song, and then I'm supposed to go on singing in this choir. I was crying because I was so overwhelmed with the joy of the love of God. But whatever your top five is, what do they all have in common? One thing, and that is all of those great joyful moments past. And they were followed by moments of pain, of hurt, maybe even of despair. What God's talking about here, he says, be glad and rejoice forever in what I create. There will be such a thing as eternal joy. God says that his redeemed people, his Jerusalem. He's not talking about the literal city that's in Israel, but he's talking about the redeemed people of God. Revelation describes it as the new Jerusalem. Created to be an eternal joy, a joy to God Himself first. He says, I will rejoice. in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. He says that in 65. But then in 66 we find out it's a joy for all the nations. I will bring your brothers and sisters from all the nations, and I will make them priests and Levites. So God's redeemed people being gathered in will be a joy to God Himself and to all the nations who are brought in. What will life be like under the new heavens and the new earth on the new earth? Well, Isaiah 65 is painting a poetic portrait for us. So one of the things you've got to keep in mind always when you're in Isaiah is we're dealing we are dealing with poetry and with imagery. And so God is giving pictures of a truth that is so mind-blowing that it's kind of hard for us to fully grasp. And so God speaks God speaks baby talk to us in the Bible because that's the level of our understanding. And so what he says is true, but the the full truth of it is even greater than words, human words can express or human minds can express can understand. But the biggest thing he says is, uh all of the bad stuff is gonna be forgotten. And verse 20 of chapter 65, uh, sorry, no uh verse 19, no more shall be heard in Jerusalem among God's people. the sound of weeping or of distress. So so whatever whatever was former is going to be forgotten, and no more will be heard The sound of weeping or a cry of distress. So what are the things that cause weeping and distress? Well, we're given four examples here of the kinds of things that cause weeping and distress in this life. The first is dying. People who die before their time. That's in verse 20. The second is injustice. That's what verses 21 and 22 are talking about. The wicked oppressors who seem to be so blessed and the work of God's people, good people, they're still It's stolen and exploited by others. We we we deal with ministries in countries where this is a living reality. In Haiti, for example, one of the things we learned when we went there, and we went there when it was much more peaceful than it is now, back in twenty seventeen. One of the things we learned is that in Haiti, you don't plant vineyards and build nice houses. Because if you do, a gang of armed people will show up and take it from you. Because as soon as you make something nice, there are people who have enough power and the government is corrupt enough that they just come and take it away. And that is an injustice that is heartbreaking. We've all seen things like that in the world. The third thing that causes weeping and distress is futility. Verse 23, it's a picture of someone who labors in vain. Bears children for calamity, the idea that you would work for something and nothing would come of it, futility. And the fourth thing is conflict and violence. And that's in verse 25. And so God in the new heavens and the new earth, he says, I'm going to reverse the curse and we're going to undo all of those things. No one's ever going to die prematurely. But people's lives are going to be like the lives of a tree. Now this is symbolic language. He says a hundred years old. A hundred years old, a round number. It's just a big, big number. In the New Testament, it's clear that we will actually live forever. There will be no more dying at all in the new heavens and the new earth. So the pain of losing a loved one, of going to a funeral, of mourning, is gone The second thing is that no one will ever suffer unjustly by the oppression of the wicked. People will be able to keep the fruit of their labor and enjoy the work of their hands. And here's a here's a hint that this is going to be very long because At the end of twenty-two it says, My chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands. Forever There's no more futility, and there's no more conflict or violence. That's the new heavens and the new earth. But when is all that going to happen? When? When's it coming? Boy, wouldn't it be nice to be there? Well, it is coming. And chapter 66 gives us a little bit more information about what's going to happen when it comes and what has to happen first before it comes. And that is before the new heavens and the new earth come, God's going to come, and God's going to bring justice to the earth. In the New Testament, we're told this is Jesus. Jesus is going to come again, and he's going to come again to judge. He's going to punish those who have wreaked havoc. on his good creation, and who have brought death and injustice and futility and violence into his world. Now here's the thing about justice. Justice is a deep Universal human longing. It's so deep, it's so universal that so many good stories, think about how many good stories Will pull you in and draw you along because you are longing for justice. Something really terrible happens, some terrible person is doing some terrible thing, and you're like This has got to be made right. And the tension of the whole story is, is this going to be made right? When's it going to be made right? Is it going to I've told you a story before about the way my kids were when we were watching movies when they were younger, but sometimes uh they would just get so uh stressed in the middle of a movie they would make me pause the movie. And they would ask, Daddy, does this have a good ending? Does this have a happy ending? And only after I assured them that it had a good and happy ending would they let me resume the movie I just spent a couple of days listening to uh a classic spy thriller novel. And I knew at some a certain point in the novel I knew. These people are going to die at the end of this book. And I'm just going to be left with people that I've invested in, people that I care about, people that I'm sort of pulling for, and they're going to be dead And sure enough, that's how the novel ends. I won't tell you what the novel is in case you want to read it, but it's like, no, that's not the way it should be, right? Now here's the tricky thing. We all have this deep and universal longing for justice. But justice against the misdeeds of those people, not mine, mine aren't that bad Mine I will excuse and minimize and self-justify, but those people and you see this in little kids, I've given you this illustration before too, but it's it's just a universal one Anybody who's ever dealt with little kids has probably heard a little child say, that's not fair. And they always mean it when someone else got more than them. I've never seen a child say to their parent You gave me a bigger piece of cake than my brother. That's not fair. You have to give him more. We always do it the other way around. Which shows That we can get frustrated and irritated with the hypocrites that are out there in the world who talk about justice and then do evil things But what about the hypocrite who looks back at us in the mirror? What about Us knowing that we shouldn't be hateful, greedy, envious, judgmental, and yet we are. Well, Jesus came so that those who recognize, who recognize I'm part of the problem One of my favorite writers, G. K. Chesterton. He was a British writer in the early part of the 20th century. He was one of C. S. Lewis's uh role models. He He participated in a an essay sort of competition or invitation that was put out and they asked people to write in And to say what was wrong with the world. And what he wrote in was he said, dear editors Regarding your question, what is wrong with the world? I am, yours truly, G. K. Chesterton. And at first they got it and they thought, well, he didn't answer the question, and then they realized that was the answer to the question and they put it in the paper. When we realize that we are part of the problem, God then says to us in 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And you might think, wait a minute, how? How can it be just of God to forgive us and cleanse us of all of our unrighteousness just because we confess? Well, it's not just because we confess, it's because Jesus paid the price He took the penalty we deserve. He paid the fine. He did the time. He took the judgment that we deserve so that we can be forgiven. It's spelled out beautifully in Isaiah 53. If you weren't here for Isaiah 53, I recommend you read Isaiah 53. Listen to the sermons. I think I did about four sermons on that passage. It's spelled out beautifully. But that is the power of God in Christ. And that is the glory of God that's being declared to all the nations. The end of 66 is a very interesting passage because it talks about Gathering up all the nations and tongues, and they shall come and see my glory, and I will set a sign among them. This is 66 verses 19 and 20. I will set a sign among them, and from them I will send survivors to the nations. To Tarshish, Puld, who draw the bow, to Tubul and Javan. By the way, if you are of European ancestry, you are Javan in this, by the way. I can't necessarily decode all of them for you on the spot, but that's one I know. This was actually fulfilled at the day of Pentecost. When God gathered together people from every people and tongue and set a sign among them. Turn with me if you have a Bible in front of you. Turn with me to Acts chapter 2. And we'll look at this together. When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven a sound. like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting, and divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven, and at this sound the multitude came together. And they were bewildered because each one was hearing them speak in his own language. And they were amazed and astonished, saying, Are not all these who are speaking Galileans? And how is it that we hear, each in his own native language, Parthians and Medes and Elonites and residents of Mesopotamia and Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus, and Asia Phrygia, Pamphylia, Egypt, the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians, we hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty works of God. And they were all amazed and perplexed. This is the sign. God gathered up all these people from all over the world, and he gave them this sign. The mighty works of God are being declared to you in your own native tongue, even though everyone who's speaking only speaks Aramaic probably, or movie Aramaic and Hebrew. And so that's the sign. And then notice back in Isaiah 66 it goes on to say, and I will send out survivors from them, and they will go out to the nation. So what happens in the book of Acts is that shortly after this, persecution arises because of the word, and Stephen is martyred. And people are arrested and imprisoned, and so the church is scattered. And from the scattered church, the gospel, the good news of the glory of God, is taken out To all the nations. And that story has continued to this day, 2,000 years later. We're taking the gospel to all the nations. Friday morning. 8 o'clock. A group of us will meet and we'll head out to Dulles Airport. We're going to go to northern Uganda, close to the South Sudan border, and take the good news of what God has done. To the nations. Because it is what God's called us to do, and it is the blessing and the privilege of the church. The proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. To every people group in the world allows all peoples to hear of the glory of God in Christ Jesus and to come Into God's people. Most people in Isaiah's day were convinced that God was on their side and God was going to protect them and God was going to defend them for two reasons. One, because they were the biological descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and because they had a temple sitting in Jerusalem that God had told them to build. So they thought their national identity, their ethnicity, right, and their human achievement was going to be God's on our side. And here God is saying, no. Don't be arrogant in your nationalistic pride. Don't be arrogant at the works of your hands. I'm going to take, even from Gentiles, I'm going to take people who are going to be priests to God. All those who know and who believe in the real glory of God in Jesus Christ will enjoy the presence of God forever But at the same time, those who reject that good news, those who say, no, I want my own way. I don't want any of this Jesus stuff. I want to live my own life for myself. They have chosen death over life, and they will have what they have chosen. They will be shut out of the new heavens and the new earth. So what do we learn from these passages here at the end of Isaiah? We we learn, first of all At a basic level, I think we learn that all of our frustrations with life in this world are understandable. The next time you are frustrated by something that seems so pointless So petty, so wrong. Just know that God is even more angry at that wrong than you are. And he fully intends to make it right. But second, we also see that God has a solution for our sin in Jesus Christ the Redeemer, and that He's gathering a people from every tribe, language, and ethnicity on earth. He's spreading the good news of Jesus to every corner of the world. And when God has gathered together all of those who are going to come to faith in Jesus, Jesus will come again. to judge the evil of the world and create a new heavens and a new earth where righteousness and joy will thrive forever. And you might say, well when is that going to be? It's going to be when the last person Who's going to come to faith in Jesus comes to faith in Jesus, and the people of God are complete. And if you say, well, when is that going to be? Then you have to go with what Jesus says. No one knows the day or the hour. But people have been longing for that for a long time. And we should be thankful that God has been patient and has delayed that coming for a long time. Because us and our children now have an opportunity to respond to the gospel and enter into We also learn that those who die without trusting in Jesus die in their rebellion against God. without their problem of sin and brokenness solved, and they will stay in that state forever. Everybody has sinned Everybody is in the same state naturally. Everybody needs forgiveness. Everybody needs a Redeemer, and there is only one Redeemer who has come. And lived a perfect life, and died death in our place, and risen again from the dead. There's no one else. So if we take these words to heart, I think it should change the way we look at the world, what we long for, how we live our lives. Instead of being focused on ourselves and our own temporary happiness, we should focus on Jesus, the promised Redeemer. Instead of being focused only on life in this world and YOLO. It's yes, you only live once in this life, but then you will live forever. We are going to be embarking on a long journey starting Friday morning. But some people, you know, there's a saying that goes around, the journey is the destination. That's not a biblical or Christian understanding of life. We're going to embark on a journey, and then there will be things to do and to see along the way of the journey. Hopefully, Lord willing, we're going to make a little side excursion into Istanbul because we've got like a 12-hour layover there But the goal is to get to where we're going and to do what God's called us to do when we get there. And the journey is about getting to the destination. And that's the truth. Now some people think that this kind of perspective is unrealistic. Maybe it's escapist, maybe it's unhelpful, maybe it's impractical. But the truth is that God has revealed this to be our eternal destiny and the hope that he gives, it satisfies our souls in a way that nothing in this world can. And while we know that this world is not the way it should be, if we know that a better world is coming and we know that God is going to be faithful, we are we are longing for that day and we are living for it and working for that day. C. S. Lewis famously said, if we find within ourselves a desire that nothing in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that we were made for another. And at the end of the Chronicles of Narnia, C. S. Lewis writes this. All their life in this world and all their adventures in Narnia had only been the cover and the title page. Now at last they were beginning chapter one of the great story which no one on earth has read, which goes on forever, in which every chapter is better than the one before All our life in this fallen world, lived by faith, lived in hope of what is to come. is the cover, the title page, and the introduction. Now as I tell people when I give them a book, don't skip the introduction, because it prepares you for chapter Chapter one. Let's pray. Heavenly Father We thank you that you are writing a story that has a more glorious ending than we could ever imagine, and that the ending is really just the beginning. May we live for the eternity to come. And while we are in this world, seek to make a difference. So that others would come to know Jesus and come to join in his people forever. We pray that we would do this faithfully by your grace and for your glory. In Jesus' name, amen.