Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. It's our third day of our 31st week in the Gospels together, but it's our second day in the Gospel of John. So we're looking at the second half of chapter 1, verses 19 to 34. We're going to hear from John the Baptist today, and he's going to say something that prompts our question for today. And our question is, how is Jesus the Lamb of God? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this day that you've given to us and thank you for the blessing that it is to be able to spend time in your word. Please teach us from your word. And write your word on our hearts that we might believe you and follow you and love you. In Jesus' name. Amen. John 1 19 to 34. And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him. Who are you? He confessed, and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. And they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? He said, I am not. Are you the prophet? And he answered, No. So they said to him, Who are you? We need to give an account to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? He said, I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. Now they have been sent from the Pharisees. They asked him, Then why are you baptizing if you are neither the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet? Jesus answered them, I baptized with water, but among you stands one you do not know. even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. These things took place in Bethany, across the Jordan, where John was baptizing The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. This is he of whom I said, After me comes a man who ranks before me, because he was before me. I myself did not know him, but for this purpose I came baptizing with water, that he might be revealed to Israel. And John bore witness, I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain This is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen and have borne witness that this is the Son of God. What's interesting is John's Gospel is written with very simple language. There aren't too many big words in John's Gospel. Luke a physician and historian whose native language was Greek, he actually writes with much bigger words, much more complex sentence structures. John was a fisherman from Galilee. And Greek was not his first language, or probably even his second language, but it was the the trade language of the Roman Empire, and so he did know Greek, but he writes Greek in a very simplistic way But don't let the vocabulary and the grammar fool you. John did not write a simplistic gospel. Instead, he gives us short, direct, clear statements. that are full of deep and profound truth that we can ponder for so long. Yesterday we saw this in the simple statement that in the beginning was the word. And the word was with God and the word was God. Just think about that. Short, simple, clear, direct. And yet, oh my, how profound. And we tried to unpack some of the ways in which that has deeper meaning for us when we understand that Jesus is the Word. And here today we're given the witness of John the Baptist. John was referred to in the prologue that he came as a witness to bear witness to the light. He himself was not the light. So here we get John saying this in his own words, saying that he's not the light. And that's really the gist of this question and answer from these people sent from the Pharisees. And they're saying, are you the Christ? No. Are you Elijah? No. Are you the prophet? No. He's basically saying, I'm not delight. But I'm the one who's come to prepare the way for the light. Now, one point of confusion That actually John is clarifying here is that in the Synoptic Gospels, Jesus does identify John the Baptist as the one who is who was the Elijah to come, who was the promised Elijah. So how could Jesus say that John was the promised Elijah, but John himself say that he's not Elijah? Well it's a big difference between understanding the promised Elijah is really one who comes in the spirit and power of Elijah. Which was John the Baptist, because he wore uh garment of camel's hair with a leather belt around his waist, he wore sandals, he lived out in the desert, he ate locusts and wild honey. These were a lot of the same kinds of things that Elijah and Elisha did. And how they dressed, and how they were kind of known, especially Elijah. So he comes in the spirit and power of Elijah. But in the mindset of a first century Jewish person, when they heard that Elijah was going to be sent, which is in Malachi, they were thinking, Elijah himself, the same guy who was taken up into heaven. in the chariot is going to come back down from heaven in person himself, like I am Elijah the Tishbite. No, that's not what God meant. God meant he was sending someone like Elijah in the spirit and power of Elijah. So the answer to the direct question, are you Elijah? is I'm not. John the Baptist was the son of Zechariah and Elizabeth, who was conceived in the womb of Elizabeth by God's miraculous grace. He was not. Elijah, the Tishvite, the prophet from the Old Testament, but he comes in the spirit and the power of Elijah. He's not the prophet that Moses talked about, because that's Jesus. Jesus is the great prophet, the final prophet, the revelation of the Word of God, in that sense, final in the sense of the fullness of God's revelation. He's the Word of God made flesh, and He's not the Christ So all this is basically John saying, I'm not the light. And they say, Why are you baptizing them? And he says, Well, because I'm coming to prepare the way for the light. He quotes Isaiah 40, and the voice of one crying in the wilderness makes straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. He's the preparer. So as the preparer, as the herald sent ahead, he has to make a proclamation And the Synoptic Gospels don't really record John making his proclamation. What they do record are the details of Jesus' baptism. where the Spirit of God descended, which John refers to here, but see John is like completing the story. The synoptics give you, Matthew and Luke give you the baptism of Jesus and the dove descending. And then John comes along later and says, well, here's the rest of the story. Yes, the dove came and rested on Jesus, but then John proclaims Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. This is the next day after the baptism of Jesus. And It's behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And this is our question for today. How is Jesus the Lamb of God? I mean, a Lamb is a small furry animal with wool and Jesus is a man. What's going on? Well, first and foremost, Jesus is the Lamb of God because of his sinless life. The lambs that were brought for sacrifice on Passover and in other times, they had to be spotless. No blemish, no flaw Jesus was sinless. No blemish, no flaw of any kind in his life. These lambs were, of course, not morally sinless, they were just lambs, but they were a picture. And in anticipation of the moral perfection, the holy perfection of Jesus, who was tempted in every way just as we are, and yet without sin, according to Hebrews 4. 15. But secondly, Jesus is the Lamb because he quietly submitted himself to the cross in obedience to God. Seven hundred years before Jesus was born, Isaiah 53 prophesied of him, he opened not his mouth like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. That's what Jesus was the Lamb of God. He didn't open his mouth. He submitted himself to being sacrificed for our sins Third, Jesus is the Lamb of God because he died to cover us from God's wrath. And this is probably the heart of this meaning that Jesus is the Passover Lamb. That's why he was killed at Passover. He hung on the cross at Passover because he was the Passover Lamb. Remember the story of the Exodus? God's people were in bondage in Egypt. Pharaoh was told to let them go. Nine plagues came, frogs and flies and gnats and darkness and river turning to blood and all these things. And Pharaoh hardened his heart and would not let the people go. And finally there was the last plague, the last curse, the death of the firstborn. And it's the clearest picture of the outpouring of the wrath of God because all sin deserves death. And no one is innocent. Everyone has sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, and everyone deserves to die. So it was actually merciful that God only took the firstborn of the people of Egypt because actually all of the Egyptians, oh, and all of the Israelites all deserved to be wiped out by God's wrath because of their sin. But the Israelites were told to mark their houses. with the blood of the lamb. And that would be their protection, their covering. And the the avenging angel, the angel of wrath, would pass over The blood would cover over them, and the angel would pass over them. And that's what Jesus does. Jesus' blood covers over our sin, cleanses us, so that God's wrath passes over us. Fourth, Jesus is the Lamb of God because he takes away the sin of the world by dying in our place. He's a substitute. Ezekiel 18, 4 says, the soul that sins will surely die. Romans 6. 23 says, the wages of sin is death. Hebrews 9. 24 says, Without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins. If you've been at Forest Hill for the Lord's Supper, you'll know those three verses because I use them together when we're talking about the cup. That represents the blood of Christ. And so Jesus is the Lamb of God. He takes away the sin of the world because he died for us in our place. He made substitutionary atonement. He atoned for our sins by dying in our place, taking what we deserve on himself. And finally, he was the Lamb of God because he was provided by God and was offered up to God. Remember when Abraham was called to sacrifice Isaac in Genesis 22? God spared Abraham. He spared Isaac. He gave him a ram that day that was caught in the thicket to sacrifice. But Abraham had said, God himself will provide the lamb for the sacrifice. And even after the ram was sacrificed, Abraham sees that on the mountain of the Lord it shall be provided, or he shall be seen. And this is where Jehovah Jireh, the God, the Lord who provides, the Lord provides the lamb and was offered up. Willingly. God spared Abraham, but he did not spare his own son. He did not spare himself. He's the Lamb of God, offered up by God and to God. So Jesus, again, it's a simple little phrase here in John's Gospel. Everybody can picture it. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. There's none of no big words there, no hard words, but boy, it's a deep and profound mystery. And it's a beautiful truth. It tells us that the love of God, the provision of God, the promises and purposes of God being fulfilled, our sin being covered and taken away, and God's wrath being satisfied because Jesus died in our place. That's the heart of the gospel. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, thank you for giving your Son. Oh Lord Jesus, thank you for giving your life. Please grow us in our knowledge and understanding of you, our appreciation of you, our worship of you, our love for you, and our obedience of you. May all of this grow in us by the grace of your Holy Spirit as we see more and more Jesus, the Lamb of God, who takes away our sin, how worthy He is, and how thankful we are. We pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for the Gospel of John. We're going to finish up chapter one tomorrow with the calling of the first disciples. Have a blessed day in the Lord.