Good morning and welcome, welcome, welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is now week 19 of our journey through the Heidelberg Catechism together. We're working our way through the section of the catechism that deals with the Apostles' Creed, as we're taking a look at what we must believe as we receive grace from God, moving us out of our guilt through grace to gratitude in the pursuit of the glory of God and gospel comfort. Today we'll be in question 53. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the grace that you have given us through our Lord Jesus Christ. Who laid down his life for us to redeem us from sin and death and hell and make us yours forever. We pray that you would lead us in your path. You would lead us in faith, that you would lead us in grace and grow us to be more like Christ, to trust in Him more deeply. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, let's turn our attention now to the Heidelberg Catechism, and we're going to do a little bit of review and just remind you where we are. A while back we started this section on the Apostles' Creed with question 23, and today we're on question 53. So question 23 is about the articles of the Christian faith. What are these articles? And the answer really is the Apostles' Creed. broken down into twelve different articles of faith across three sections in a Trinitarian formula, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. So the answer is I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, His only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified dead and buried, he descended into hell. On the third day he arose from the dead, he ascended into heaven, and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. We've covered all that. Today we begin the third section with the eighth article, I believe in the Holy Spirit I believe in a holy Catholic Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. So we're down to the third section of the Apostles' Creed, and today we're at question 53, what do you believe concerning the Holy Spirit? Because we say in the eighth article of our faith, I believe in the Holy Spirit. So what do you believe concerning the Holy Spirit? First, he is, together with the Father and the Son, true and eternal God. Second, he is also given to me, to make me, by true faith, share in Christ and all his benefits, to comfort me and to remain with me forever. Christ tells us in the Great Commission that the Holy Spirit is true and eternal God. This is actually, if you consider the Great Commission, it's a very strongly Trinitarian formula It's actually part of what teaches us from the from the mouth of the Lord Jesus Himself that Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are together one God. Because he says, go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name singular. the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. And if you were to ask further, like what is the name, well the name is the name of the Lord. Yahweh, Jehovah. We actually don't know how to pronounce it in Hebrew. Neither Yahweh or Jehovah is probably correct, but it's the name. And that's the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. So when you read your Old Testament and you read about the Lord, all caps, L-O-R-D. You're reading about the one true God who is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Three persons, one God, forever. Matthew 28, 19. But also in Acts 5, Peter confronts Ananias and Sapphira. They've lied to the Lord. They've lied to the apostles. And Peter confronts Ananias. Here in Acts 5, verses 3 and 4, but Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to man, but to God. Again, if you've lied to the Holy Spirit, verse 3, you have lied to God, verse 4. And that surely is telling us that the Holy Spirit is God. 2 Corinthians, I mean sorry, 1 Corinthians 3, verse 6. Paul writing to the Corinthians says, Do you not know that you are God's temple? and that God's Spirit dwells in you. God's temple means God dwells in you. But who exactly is it that dwells in believers but God's Spirit, the third person of the Trinity? God the Holy Spirit, who is true God, and who dwells in us. And that's what the second part of our catechism answer is, that the Holy Spirit is given to me. And so this is what we see here in 1 Corinthians 3. 6. You are God's temple, God's Spirit dwells in you. Another verse, Galatians 4. 6, says, Because you are God's sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba. Father. I love sometimes the Apostle Paul will have this these little grammar shifts that technically don't sound like their correct grammar, but I love his heart behind it and why he does it. He says here, because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son, and you would expect him to say, into your hearts, crying Abba Father, but he says, into our hearts, crying Abba Father, because he doesn't want to be left out of that. Like he too has the Holy Spirit and He too cries to God Abba Father. And so we are, all believers, all of us together, we are sons of God, and that means we have the Spirit of His Son. who is in our hearts crying Abba Father. This is why the Nicene Creed says that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son, because the Holy Spirit is the Spirit of God. He's the Spirit of the Father, but he's also the Spirit of His Son. 1 Corinthians 12, 13, we're told, For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body. Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and all were made to drink of one Spirit. Here, the baptism that's being really talked about is Spirit Baptism which is what water baptism is a sign of. So water baptism is an outward physical sign of an inward spiritual reality. And the inward spiritual reality that water baptism points to is spirit baptism. In one spirit, we were all baptized into one body, Jews or Greeks, slave or free, and all were made to drink of one spirit The word all, repeated twice here, is an indication that all believers, everyone who is a child of God, everyone who has come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, has received spirit baptism, has been baptized by the Holy Spirit in one spirit, made to drink of one spirit That's very important because I think sometimes, like within the Presbyterian community, we don't talk that much about baptism of the Holy Spirit, which sometimes think that sounds like a charismatic thing. But the charismatics actually in their theology teach that only some Christians would experience the baptism of the Holy Spirit, that it's a second work of grace, but that's not what the Holy Spirit teaches us. in Scripture. All were baptized into one body. All were made to drink of one spirit. We are one body in Christ, in one spirit. We've all been baptized in the Spirit, made to drink of one Spirit, and that's how we share in Christ. Romans 8, 15 to 16 tells us. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons. By whom we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. So, who has the witness of the Spirit? All believers. All the Roman Christians? Paul himself. We have the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit bears witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. One more verse for you. I know we've had a lot of verses today, but there's so much scripture that we could really get into. um to to understand the work of the Holy Spirit and the heart of the believer. But the Holy Spirit remains with us forever. And this is John 14, verses 16 and 17. Jesus says, And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper to be with you forever, even the spirit of truth. whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you The Helper, the Holy Spirit, is with us forever. Here we are, 2,000 years almost after Jesus' resurrection and ascension. And we're still receiving the Holy Spirit for every believer. And the Holy Spirit, once given to a believer, never leaves the believer. He's with us forever, with the church, throughout all the age, and with every believer, until we are home face to face with the Lord in glory. So back to our catechism question number 53. What do you believe concerning the Holy Spirit? First, he is, together with the Father and the Son, true and eternal God. Second, he is also given to me to make me, by true faith, share in Christ and all his benefits, to comfort me and to remain with me forever. That should give us true comfort because that really is the ministry of the Holy Spirit. And the more we understand Him, and the more we learn to commune with Christ through the ministry of the Holy Spirit. the more we draw by faith on the rich comfort that God offers to us. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for not only giving your Son for us to be our Savior, but in also giving your spirit to us to be our comforter, our helper, our assurance. Holy Spirit, you have come to live within every one of God's children as the spirit of adoption, by whom we cry out, Abba, Father. And you're the one who makes us partakers in Christ. So that we can share in all of his benefits and blessings. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, thank you. And please work in our hearts this week. Please work in us. What your word promises to us. Please work in us the presence of Christ to abide with us forever. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again as we're continuing our way through this wonderful Heidelberg Catechism. And as always, we're going to respond to today's lesson by worshiping God together in song. Of God fill me with life for you that I may love what you love. And what do you do? Be the omnipotent God until my eyes pure. And though my way is what he does to kill and kill him. So that I may be free. Still live with you for all the time. Free love me, breath of God. Fill me with life for new that I may love. The blessing of the Father, gift of grace and love, the promise of the Savior, for power from above. A wondrous gift has given for confidence and mission Holy Spirit you make all things new Spirit of God we now source of life come with my weary. Spirit of God Shine on me now, light of God, come ignite my longing. Come and lift the dark clouds of doubt and unreal. Shine upon my soul now the vile rays I see clearer, closer, deeper, the love of my beef. See the Holy Spirit you may go in you to God for me. Come by the gas die. Me now light of life, comic side, warming home where you breathe hope thrice the day. Dead return to light and the dark must flee the freaking dead By a lie, I see the glory of thy king. Beholding him, I will be cheered. Spirit of God breathe only now source of light coming by my weary heart. Oh shine, no light of the comic night to me.