We are doing a part two of the geography of Israel. And um I was I was trying to figure out how to do this because I had sort of put the the PowerPoint together to be a standalone. I didn't know to make a second one. So I didn't do that. I actually just added slides into the one that I did before. So we're gonna part of this is just going to be quick review. So if you weren't here last week, I apologize because I'm going to go by some things very quickly and just mention what we talked about last week, and then I'll stop and pause on the new stuff. But there was a lot I had to rush through at the end that I can slow down and hopefully do a little bit more detail today. And then I also wanted to bring out a couple of places where examples of how understanding the geography of Israel impacts the way we read the Bible and how we understand even familiar parts of the Bible through new eyes as we understand the geography better. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for loving us perfectly and unfailingly. Thank you for your sovereign hand in the history of the world. And included in that, Father, was planting your people in the land of Israel and preserving them as a people. Until the coming of your son to this land. We pray that you would guide our study this morning, help us to understand the geography of this place, its location. Its importance and help us to gain insight that will help us to better understand your word and your character and your purposes. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to start with another short video overview of geography that's going to focus on two different maps, sort of a wide angle and then a close-up map. So it's about four minutes long. There is a geography of the Bible as well as a history of History of the Bible that we need to hold in our minds when we're reading it. And there are really only two maps that we need: a map of the whole Middle East and a map of the Promised Land in the Middle East Now the familiar name that is given to the overall map of the Middle East is the Fertile Crescent. And what it does is it links two very large rivers at each end. The River Nile and the two rivers, Tigris and Euphrates So these are very fertile valleys, the Nile Delta, and then the Tigris and the Euphrates, what used to be called Mesopotamia. which means uh the middle of the rivers. Now then these two fertile areas were the centres of power in the ancient world. These were the East and West world powers. So the whole Old Testament is a struggle between these two world powers, between Egypt and the different empires That arose here, notion of Assyria and Babylon. And in between the promised land. Now you notice that the Arabian desert covers all of this and the Sahara there. So when When these two big towers attacked each other or tried to overcome each other, they had to travel through this narrow little downhill. All the traffic was directed down this narrow coastal step. Which means that this was the crossroads to the world actually. The road from Europe comes down the coast, it crosses the plain Australia, goes down into the Jordan Valley, and up onto the other side and Mount Arabia. The road from Africa comes up the coastal plain and crosses over the same Vale of Israela or the Valley of Jesuit and goes up to Pane and up to Damascus and after India and China So the actual crossroads of the world is precisely there. At a little hill for Flagino And the hill of Megillo in Hebrew is hard again. And that's why most of the big battles in history took place there, at the crossbows of the world, overlooking that crossbows in the little village called Nazareth. And a boy in Nazareth could watch the world go by. He could lie on the hill as a boy, like being in an airport lounge, where you see all the nationalities coming and going. That's why they call this northern path. Galilee of the nations, because it was an international prospect. Whereas further south up in the hills, it was very isolated and very Jewish. And Jerusalem is right up in Nemare Hills. So you have two parts of the Promised Land, the international parts where all the nations came and went. And it was very Jewish, isolated by having the hills with Jerusalem. So you can see the importance of this land. God was going to plant his people At the crossroads of the world, where everybody could see them. Where they could be a model of the kingdom of heaven on earth So the whole world could see what blessing comes from even living under God's rule. But they would also see what cares comes from displaying God's rule. Alright. All these short videos I'm showing you are on YouTube by the way, so you can get um All of those. It says please feel free to share with your friends. So hopefully YouTube won't get mad at us here We didn't exactly live stream that, but all right. So we talked about last time one of the big differences between uh The promised land, Israel, where God's people were brought to, and the land where they came from Is that there's a wider area of fertile land in Israel because Israel is a land of rain and rainfall of seasonal rains, and it drinks in the rain in its season. And so Deuteronomy 11. 11 says it drinks water by the rain From heaven and share with you that when you go to Israel, there's a lot of fresh produce everywhere. There's all sorts of fruits and vegetables everywhere. And so it's a it's a wonderfully productive land. Now it's it's probably drier today than it was in biblical times, and so there's a lot more irrigation needed today than there was in biblical times. Um but the pattern of the rain that falls is the same. And we looked at this last time. Um but if you see the Nile On the left, you have a narrow strip of agricultural land that was irrigated from the Nile to the west, because the land is lower to the west of the Nile than it is to the east of the Nile, so they would now irrigate out. to the west and then up in the Nile River Delta you have a wider area of fertility. Whereas in Israel you have rain. And so the darker the green, the more rain there is. And the rain would come off of the Mediterranean. And those rain clouds would come into the land, and as they hit the mountains of the Judean uh hills, they would get squeezed and the rain would fall and it would generally flow in these rivers. These rivers here out toward the coast. So this is all very mountainous in here. Okay? And so the rain falls, and some of it does fall into the Jordan River Valley and then hits the Dead Sea. But a lot of it falls and flows out back toward the Mediterranean. So all of this is going to be very, the lower part out here toward the coast is going to be very productive farmland. He said it in the video, and I showed you this last time. This is an early depiction of Jerusalem from Heinrich Bunting in 1581, obviously a symbolic representation, but an accurate symbolic representation. that Jerusalem stands at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, and Africa. And you can see that Africa to the southwest, Asia to the east. Israel is actually in Asia, but it's the westernmost part of Asia except for Turkey. And then Europe up to the northwest. And because of that, as he said in the video, this becomes a crossroads of civilization And this intercoastal highway, international coastal highway, is where you would come up and do trade and out of Egypt. You would hit Gaza and Ashkelon and Ashdod. Now who controlled all of these cities for hundreds and hundreds of years? Philistines, right? This is the Philistine area. And the Philistines were a very powerful uh Mediterranean peoples who probably fled the islands of the Mediterranean after a large volcanic eruption ended the Minoan civilization. So if you're familiar with ancient Greek fables, You may know that the first big power in the Mediterranean, the Eastern Mediterranean, was the Minoan civilization. And if you didn't know that, you've probably heard of the Minotaur. The Minotaur was this mythical beast that was kept by King Minos in the labyrinth. Right? And you've heard of uh Icarus and Daedalus and Daedalus's wings and how he well they were trying to escape from the island of Minos. So the earliest Greek stories are all about how powerful Minos was. Well there was apparently a volcanic eruption that basically devastated life along the islands of the eastern Mediterranean. And that appears to be the time when the Philistines fled. And they settled on this coast because they were just coming from like right over there, so they came here. I say that to say the Palestinian Arabs of today are not descendants of the Philistines. The Philistines were a Greek Related Mediterranean people. They were not Arabic, which is from uh further east. So even though this is the Gaza Strip today and it's Palestinian controlled It's not true that the Palestinians are descendants of the Philistines, so two completely different people groups. The Palestinians are basically a an Arabic people group that were pushed out and they ended up settling in this area very sparsely because they were without a homeland. So anyway, it goes by this, but you can understand why the Philistines became so powerful because they controlled traffic along this very powerful highway. And so they became very wealthy. They could do Mediterranean trade, and they could do this trade here. But here's Megido. And here's that important valley. You can actually go two different ways through the valley. You can go this way or you can go this way. And then So these are Mount Mora, Mount Tabor, Beit Shion, Gilboa, Mount Gilboa. That's very centrally important in biblical history as well as in world history. This valley We don't know for sure because we can't account for every single battle in the history of the world, but as far as we know, that valley has been the site of more battles than any other valley in the world. um going all the way back to when the Egyptians controlled uh prior to 1500 and all the way up to the establishment of Israel in the 1960s. Many, many battles fought over that piece of real estate because of its strategic importance. So Megiddo is the City that was built to sort of be a toll booth military station to supervise traffic going through that valley. And uh there are, I think they found 17 layers of civilization when they excavated Harmagido, it's a big mound, and they would dig down to the layers and find all these different civilizations that had that had had a foothold there. And there I'm teaching on, I'm actually talking about The death of Josiah, King Josiah, died in a battle in Jezreel. That's the Valley of Jezreel. And that's the view from further in the Megiddo. So you can see it was a good vantage point for controlling traffic through that part. And then along the coast. The Romans built, well actually Herod the Great, who was uh the ruler of Judea, but he's an Edomite. He built Caesarea as a port city to allow the Romans to come in and help him support his rule over Judea. So he builds Caesarea and it's built in honor of Caesar. He invites the Romans to come in, thinking that they will serve his interests. in propping up his rule of Judea. It's not didn't work out that way. They ended up controlling him. He became a puppet and they ended up, you know, from the time this was built In the in the twenties and teens BC to the time when the Romans would just destroy Judea is less than a hundred years. And so beware if you invite the Romans in to help you But it's a well-excavated archaeological site today, and you can see there were this city was actually occupied for hundreds of years after the Romans by Muslims by well first by the Byzantine Empire, which was the Christian Eastern Roman Empire, then by the Muslims, and then by the Crusaders, and then by the Muslims again. They, you know, they controlled this area So there's layers of of uh city built. This is the remains of the hippodrome, which they've excavated, so the chariot races were were held here Another view. Short video. This is the land, this is the ground where Paul would have stood to make his defense before King Agrippa. We talked about that last week, but this is that this is the remains well the the the location at least of Herod's palace. Here's another view of it. Those columns are largely reconstructed from what was found buried. So this was all just buried And as they unburied it, they were able to reconstruct some of the columns. So all of those columns mark the outline of Herod's palace. So that that area in there would have been Herod's palace. And then the This area under here is what they're currently excavating. This leads to the dungeons that were below Herod's palace where Paul was kept in prison for two years. Again, we're going through this fast because this is all review. So if you're here last week, you're like, oh yeah, I remember that. If you weren't here last week, you're like, wait a minute, what's all this? We went over this last week. Um Capernaum. is at the north shore of the Sea of Galilee, and it is right along that international trade route. It's where you would make the turn to go north to Syria. It's the hometown of Peter and Andrew, and it was the base of operations for Jesus' Galilean ministry. What you're looking at here is um part of this this older black is basalt, which is a volcanic rock, and that's what they built with in the first century. So this is the stuff that was built when Jesus was there. And then this white was built later. um in the 300s under the Byzantine rule. This is an aerial shot of Capernaum Really important town. If you read the Gospels, you'll know that Capernaum is where Jesus did so many miracles, cast out demons, you know, heal the paralytic. healed Peter's mother-in-law. He taught repeatedly there, taught on the bread of life in the synagogue, and here I am standing in that same synagogue and teaching on the bread of life, which is pretty cool. And that's the view of the Sea of Galilee from Capernaum. Outside of the synagogue So the synagogue itself is not the same synagogue that Jesus would have stood in because this was built in the 300s. under the Byzantine rule. And it appears to have been a mixed-use synagogue. From the things that they excavated This synagogue appears to have been used by Jewish people and by Jewish Christians because it's heavily Jewish, but also there's some Christian symbolism that was found there as well. So that may have meant it was an early church for Jewish Christians, or it may have meant that it was the Jewish synagogue, but then they allowed Christians to gather there and worship as well. We don't know for sure. We're just guessing based upon what they uncovered. But the lower level of this is basalt. And it lines up perfectly. So this synagogue was built right on top of the one that was there in Jesus' day. So it's the same spot where that synagogue was. At the other end of the Valley of Jezreel from Megiddo is this town called Beit Shion, which actually in Jesus day, it had a Roman name, Scaphopolis. And this town is in the running at least for oldest continuously inhabited city in the world. Now if you Google What is the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world, it's going to tell you. Anybody know? Forest Hill Maryland. Yeah. Forest Hill, Maryland. Damascus. Damascus in Syria is the official answer to what is the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world. And that may be because Beachheon Schethopolis isn't really that big these days, so maybe they don't consider it a city anymore, or it may be just because, you know. Whatever. But it we we believe that it's about 6,000 years old. And we know it was used by the Egyptians when they ruled Canaan before 1500 B. C. It's the city where Saul and his son's bodies were displayed in 1 Samuel 31. And it's the lead city of the Decapolis, where it's when it's known as Scythopolis during the days of Jesus' ministry. And again, it sits right at the eastern, southeastern end of this valley of Jezreel. So you can see how important that is. and you control Beit Sheon or Scythopolis, which has a large hill in it, you have the two ends of this what's arguably the most important valley in the world for a couple thousand years. because of its location. Steve. Um it's it's pretty good. It's pretty good size. Um I don't know the exact dimensions, but uh So that's the valley. It it stretches a good ways. You can see the mountains on the other side pretty pretty clearly, but you can also see it's It's a very, very wide and very fertile valley, so um I don't know the exact dimensions of it, but It's probably Do I have? It's probably two or three miles wide and probably about ten to twelve miles, maybe twenty miles long. It's a guess based upon I'm looking at the Sea of Galilee, kind of comparing that. That's about twenty miles long and about ten miles wide at its widest. So all right. This is a video of us in Beit Cheon in Scythopolis. So we're walking around, and you can see this mosaic tile that we're just walking on is the 2,000-year-old Roman mosaic tile. And this street, which is known as the Corda is the main thoroughfare through town. And it would it was paved with mosaic file. Later Later civilization built over top of it with compacted stone, and then still another civilization later built over top of it with marble slabs. Those are the three layers that we can find there. This hill, in Jesus' day, this hill had a temple to Zeus on the top of it. So right in the middle of where Jesus did his ministry, had his activity, there was a very strong Roman pagan influence. And so you can see that in some of the mosaic that's left. This is the God who is uh the patron god of schiphopolis. I pointed this out to you last time, but we were going by quick. Anybody recognize what that is? The Horn of Plenty. So you see that at Thanksgiving, right? The Horn of Plenty at Thanksgiving. This is the origin of it. And then that's a Greek inscription that basically talks about who was who was the patron, basically the guy who footed the bill for the mosaic tile. He gets credit because he paid for it. So um but then what you see as you go around is although this was a heavily Roman pagan area, what is this? It's a cross. It is a cross. Because this becomes a Byzantine city and becomes a Christian city. And so this is a uh actually a uh we think a baptistry for the Eastern Orthodox uh church tradition, we think. So These are the ten cities of the Decapolis that are in purple. The Garasenes and the Gadderenes, you read about those in the Gospels, these are these two over here. This is what's referred to in the Gospels as the other side of the Jordan or the other side of the Sea of Galilee. It's the other side. Schethopolis is the only city that's on the western side. So if you are a if you are a Jew and you live in the hill country of Judea, where you live in Nazareth, and on the western side of the Sea of Galilee. What do you think is your opinion of the other side of the Jordan and the other side of the Sea of Galilee? Yeah, that's the wrong side of the tracks. We do not go over there. Right? Because this is Roman, this is pagan, this is unclean. We don't go over there. And yet, as you read through the Gospels, you will continually find Jesus going over there. He crossed to the other side of the Sea of Galilee. He went to the other side of the Jordan. Whenever you read that in the Gospels, don't just let your mind pass by it. Realize Jesus is crossing over to reach the unclean, the pagan, the despised, and the rejected. And in Matthew 3, when we have Jesus' ministry just being introduced here, we see his fame spread throughout all Syria. Because Capernaum is right here. Damascus, that's Syria. Caesarea Philippi, that's where Peter made his confession of faith. It's in a pagan area. His fame spread throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all the sick, those afflicted with various diseases and pains, those oppressed by demons, those having seizures and paralytics, and he healed them And great crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decapolis, and from Jerusalem and Judea, and from beyond the Jordan. Matthew is writing his gospel to a Jewish audience, but consistently throughout He's emphasizing two things. Jesus comes in fulfillment of Scripture. Matthew has more direct quotations from the Old Testament than any of the other Gospels, more than 40. This was to fulfill what was written by the prophet Isaiah. Boom. This was to fulfill what was written. Boom. He has that more than 40 times. Jesus comes in fulfillment of the Jewish scriptures, but he comes for all the nations. It's Matthew who ends his gospel with the most familiar version of the Great Commission. All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all ethnos of all nations, of all people groups. So he's writing to Jewish people telling them Jesus is the Messiah that you have been waiting for, but he didn't just come for you, he came for all the nations. Because that was the part that was very offensive to many Jewish people. How could the Messiah come and not bring Israel to glory? But that's not what he came for. So here's the Sea of Galilee, and here's a highlight of some of the things that are around the Sea of Galilee. The feeding of the 5,000, we're going to look at that in a minute, was on the other side of the Sea of Galilee in a desolate place. Capernaum is up here on the north. The road goes by there. Taughtha, which is, there is a there's a church here of the multiplication of the loaves and fishes. This may be the location for the feeding of the 4,000. And this may be for the feeding of the 5,000 or We're not sure. The Bible doesn't exactly tell us where these things happened, so there's some tradition, some mixture of tradition and archaeology that we rely on to try to figure this out. Tiberius is still an active city today. That's where we stayed in our hotel. So our hotel was here and overlooking the Sea of Galilee that way. Magdala, just right up the road. It was like less than a 10-minute drive from our hotel. That's where Mary Magdalene was from. This this we know by excavation. It was lost time. It had been forgotten. And then they uncovered it. They uncovered it because a wealthy Catholic man bought this piece of property on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee and he said, look, it's right between Tiberius and Capernaum. And this is a heavily touristy area. A lot of Catholics come in here. I'm going to build like a retreat center, hotel type thing for Catholic pilgrims who are coming to the Holy Land. Well, Israel asks that before you build something of that scope, that you do an excavation to see if there's anything of archaeological value that you would be destroying or covering up. So they did an archaeological dig and they uncovered an intact first century synagogue. And they uncovered all this and and and the description, they actually matched it up with what the first century Jewish historian Josephus wrote about the battle for Magdala, which Josephus wrote about in great detail because it was at the Battle of Magdala that Josephus, who had been a Jewish general He defected and he went and joined the Romans. And so he wrote in great detail about that battle And what they found matched the descriptions from Josephus perfectly. Even to the detail of they took the pillars down from their synagogue and laid them across the road to prevent the Romans from being able to enter to prevent and they were there. They were right across the road. So that's Magdala, and uh we got to go there. And then just up the coast from there, they uncovered a first-century fishing boat. It was buried deep in the mud. It was remarkably preserved because it had been buried. And it's the air that really decomposes things. And so they have that on display in a museum, and they've built boats that model after that in terms of size and shape. So here's the feeding of the five thousand. I want us to see a couple of things here. These are two accounts of it from John 6 and from Matthew 14. By the way, the only miracle of Jesus other than the resurrection That is recorded in all four Gospels is the feeding of the 5,000. So it's really important. Was also the most public of all of his miracles. I mean the crowd was five thousand men besides women and children. You've got over ten thousand people probably who are being fed by Jesus. And so People knew about this. So after this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias, and a large crowd was following him because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. Lifting up his eyes then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him. Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. And then Matthew gives us these details. Now when Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by himself. But when the crowds heard it, they followed him on foot from the towns. When he went ashore and saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them, and healed their sick. Now, when it was evening, his disciples came to him and said, This is a desolate place. And the day is now over. Send the crowds away into the villages and buy food for themselves. But Jesus said, they do not need to go away. You give them something to eat. They said, we have only five loaves here and two fish. And he said, Bring them here to me. So, other side of the Sea of Galilee, in a desolate place where there's a mountain nearby, the best educated guess is probably somewhere around here But the crowds would have followed him on foot. They would have walked from Capernaum, from Bethsaida, uh, from Gamla around. They would have walked around and gotten there. He would have been crossing. Probably this way. So um and he saw this great crowd. They're on the other side. So they're in this unclean Heavily Gentile, and they're in a desolate place. And that's where Jesus feeds them. He's teaching them so much. He does it at Passover because he's trying to show them that what Moses did In the wilderness, in the desert wilderness, feeding the manna from heaven. He's the true manna from heaven. In John 6, he's going to go back to Capernaum and teach on the bread of life the day after feeding the 5,000. He's showing them that he comes to those who are unclean, to those who are outcast, to those who are desolate, and he feeds them with himself. He feeds us with himself, with the bread of life. And so so much so much detail that you pick up when you understand the geography. So there we are on the Sea of Galilee. This is actually taken, this is sunrise on the Sea of Galilee. This is from Right next to our hotel. So we went out early one morning to watch the sunrise and to get a picture of it. And pictures don't do it justice as usual. But yeah. Yeah. So And this is the boat that we were on. So that's the same size and shape as what they found. in the mud. Now what they build on top of it, the canopy and you know that benches along the side, that's all built to make it tourist friendly. But the basic size and shape is the same size and shape as the fishing boat that they uncovered. It's a good size boat. Most of our artistic depictions, I mean it's little bigger than a rowboat and the guys are all crowded in there. They're like hanging off the side. And you think, well, how could that be like a functional like commercial fishing boat where you have to haul in nets of fish, right, and then keep them? And you know, so this they were good-sized boats. While we're in the north, out on the coast You have Mount Carmel to the to the northwest of Megiddo, the other side of this valley, the mountain that keeps you from being able to go along the coast. I mean it'd be nice to just be able to go right along the coast the whole way. It's Mount Carmel that is in the way there, right on the coast. What happened at Mount Carmel? Elijah and the fire from heaven and the prophets of Baal, right? Why would Elijah, why would God choose Mount Carmel as the place for this confrontation with the prophets of Baal. Well, we have to understand some background. Who was Baal? He was the prominent Canaanite deity. Do you know what he was supposed to be in charge of? All pagan deities have their sort of area that they're in charge of. Baal was the storm god. He was the one who's supposed to bring the storms, bring the rains. And then he has a female counterpart, Asherah, who is the fertility goddess, who would make sure that life came up from the ground when the rains came down from heaven. And so there's this male-female uh story being told of how uh Baal sends the rain from from heaven and Asherah brings up the life from the earth. And so there's this But who's the one who really sends the rain? God So through the prophet Joel, the Lord tells us people, be glad, O children of Zion, and rejoice in Yahweh your God. For he has given the early rain for your vindication. He has poured down for you abundant rain the early and the latter rain as before. There are two rainy seasons, two rain cycles in Israel, and therefore two harvests. Which is why you have Pentecost in the spring, which is the first harvest, and then you have tabernacles uh or the festival of ingathering at the in the fall, which is the second harvest. The first harvest, second harvest corresponds to the rains, the early rains and the latter rains. And so the Lord is the one who sends that. Before Elijah confronted the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel, and Elijah's the one who called him out. Elijah's the one who said, It's time, let's meet on Mount Carmel. There were three and a half years of drought that the Lord had sent as judgment. And then what happens immediately after the Lord clearly defeats Veal by showing that the Lord is God and Veal is a nothing. What happens right afterwards? Yeah, but first, right, remember, Elijah sends his servant out to look. Look out. Right? This is a little monastery that sits on the top of Mount Carmel today. We didn't get to go here. But this is a lookout Why do they have a lookout platform? That's where the guy was sent. Look out! See if there's a storm coming. And he goes back several times and finally he says, I see a cloud the size of a man's fist And Elijah says, that's it, run, because it's coming. And it comes, right? Because the confrontation took place here. So that all of Israel would know that it's God who sends the rain, not Baal. Baal is defeated, Baal is humiliated, Baal is shown to be a nothing, and then God sends the rain So this location is it's the part of Israel that sticks out furthest into the Mediterranean and it's the mountain that's right on the Mediterranean. The rest of the Mediterranean plain is all flatland. But here you have a mountain where you can look out further and you can have this dramatic confrontation. Alright, moving south During their pilgrimages three times a year, the people of God would reenact coming into the Promised Land by crossing the Jordan River at Jericho. The Jordan River Valley is the lowest valley in the world. The whole thing is far below sea level. The Dead Sea sits at the lowest spot on planet Earth, and Jericho is the lowest elevation city in the world. It's still a city today. Jericho sits about 1,000 to 1,200 feet below sea level, and then Jerusalem sits about 2,500 feet above sea level. So when you read about going up from Jericho to Jerusalem, it's no joke. It's going up. And there's this little flat spot in the middle, which for families, if you're going as a family and you've got your kids and you've got your stuff, for this week long festival that you're going to be in Jerusalem for, right? You've got the minivan packed, only if you're on foot You get up to here and you stop. And here there would have been inns and hotels where you could stop for the night and make a two-day journey out of it because it's it's too much for a family with a bunch of children to make in one day So you do that. So the story of the Good Samaritan, how he was going from Jerusalem to Jericho. and he was beset by thieves who beat him and then the man, the Samaritan comes along and he puts him in a hotel for the night in an inn to be taken care of. There would have been inns about halfway there. And then you have the hard part of the climb uh ahead of you. These are the songs of a sense. Um I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come? These songs would have been sung during those pilgrimages. And we believe that Psalm 121 would have been sung from Jericho as they're leaving and they're lifting up their eyes. I lift up my eyes to the hills. And you got this really long, difficult journey ahead of you. From where does my help come? My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. All of these hills, by the way, were places where a lot of pagan worship took place as well. And so you looked up your eyes to the hills and you're saying, the Lord Yahweh is my help. And Psalm 125, probably sung after you arrived in Jerusalem. Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved but abides forever, as the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the Lord surrounds His people from this time forth and forevermore. So Jerusalem is high in elevation. It is surrounded by mountains These are some of the mountains are seven mountains, including the mountain that Jerusalem the two mountains that Jerusalem is on, which is Mount Zion and Mount Moriah. But it's surrounded by mountains. So if you put lookout towers and you put uh military outposts on each of those mountains, you're in a very secure position because any direction that someone approaches you, they have to go up a pretty steep mountain. And then they have to come over the crest of that mountain and come into the valley, and so it makes it a pretty secure place surrounded by mountains. In Jerusalem, the place to go is the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. This is a shrine, a little building that's built over the top of the tomb. of Jesus and there's a window at the top so there's always light coming down and shining uh into that tomb area. There's a lot of dispute over whether or not that is the right location or not. Within the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, when you first walk in the front door, you go to the right, and there's a very steep, winding staircase And when you climb that, you're going up Mount Calvary. You're going up to the top of Mount Calvary. And at the top, there's a place where they mark where the cross was, and there's exposed rock that you can see the the rocky outcropping there. The thought is that this was a rock quarry and that it was excavated for its stone in building up Jerusalem, but that that one mound was left because the quality of the stone in that mound wasn't good enough to to spend time coring, so they left this mound. When the Romans came in, they used it as a place of execution because it was elevated and it was very visible to people coming and going in and out of the city. The evidence that this is the tomb is twofold. One, when they went inside recently to do some uh restoration work some preservation work because this whole the whole building around the tomb was crumbling. They they dated the slab That's in there, the the marble flab that was laid in there, and it does date back to the three hundreds, which means it was laid there during the days of Constantine But they also did some imaging inside, and they found walls, cave walls, of what they believe is the original tomb. And then the further evidence is that in the 140s, so the slab dates to the 300s, but going back to the 140s, the Roman emperor Hadrian Had kicked all the Jews out of Jerusalem, and he was trying to exterminate Christianity as well. And he ordered that a temple to Zeus be built on this spot. And the reason why he ordered that a temple to Zeus be built on this spot is because Christians were going on pilgrimage to this spot. to re to celebrate the resurrection of Jesus. So if Christians are already going on pilgrimage to it by the 140s, and that's so well established and well known that the Roman Emperor builds a a temple to Zeus to cover it up, it's probably the right spot. So it's very built up, but it's probably the right location. Same thing at Bethlehem, by the way. We talked about Masada. We're out of time, so I'm just going to skip to the end. Um this beginning here Christianity then spreads because of Roman roads and because of the Mediterranean. Christianity then spreads to be around Antioch. Ephesus and the area around Ephesus, this is where Paul was in Ephesus for two years, Corinth and Athens, in and around Rome. Paul at the end of his life went to Spain. All these dark blue areas were actually areas where the gospel was taken within those first couple of generations. And it's able to spread so far relatively quickly. The map says 300, but that's because you don't know officially who's Christian and not until it's legal to be a Christian. Um but those areas, those dark blue areas were the first Christianized areas in the world because of Roman roads and the Sea of the Mediterranean Sea and the strategic location of Israel. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your sovereign hand over history and geography. Thank you for what you have done in history to bring salvation to the world. Help us to be as faithful as the apostles, to go out by all means that are given to us, and to take your gospel to the world, that the nations may know you. And may come to worship you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.