Good morning, and welcome. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you here for our 18th week together In our journey through the Gospels, we come to Mark 11, verses 1 to 14 today, and we're asking, what is the importance of the triumphal entry? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your love for us. We thank you for your Son, our Savior. We thank you that He came from heaven to earth and that He came into Jerusalem on that first Palm Sunday years ago. for us and for our salvation. Teach us from Mark 11 the importance of this and help us to draw our hearts closer to Christ in Jesus' name. Amen Mark 11, 1-14. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem, to Bethphagyi, and to Bethany, at the Mount of Olives Jesus sent two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately as you enter it, you will find a colt tied on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it If anyone says to you, Why are you doing this? Say the Lord has need of it, and we'll send it back here immediately. And they went away and found a colt tied at a door outside in the street, and they untied it And some of those standing there said to them, What are you doing untying the colt? And they told them what Jesus had said, and they let them go. And they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks on it, and he sat on it And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread leafy branches that they had cut from the fields. And those who went before and those who followed were shouting, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. Hosanna in the highest. And he entered Jerusalem and went into the temple, and when he had looked around at everything, as it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve. On the following day when they came from Bethany, he was hungry, and seeing in the distance a fig tree in leaf He went to see if he could find anything on it. When he came to it he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs, and he said to it, May no one ever eat fruit from you again And his disciples heard it. When God sent his son into the world as the king and savior of his people, he made sure it was announced. He sent the birth announcement by angels to a group of shepherds keeping watch over their flock by night. God's choice of shepherds was significant on a number of levels, including the fact that they were keepers of sheep, and God was sending his son as the Lamb of God to take away the sin of the world. Now approximately thirty-three years later, God's Son is entering into Jerusalem. to accomplish the final and most vital stage of his mission in just a few days. He would be betrayed and beaten and crucified. He would become our Savior as he took his sin, our sins upon himself. This day was an important entry, and it was foretold in Scripture in Isaiah 52 and very specifically in Zechariah 9:9. Just as God the Father made sure Jesus' entry into the world was announced by angels, so now he made sure that his son's entry into Jerusalem was announced. This time the announcing was done by the shouting of the crowd, who laid down their coats and spread out palm branches to proclaim the coming of the king. Jesus was riding on a donkey, on a colt, the fold of a donkey in exact fulfillment of Zechariah 9 9 The crowds shouted, Hosanna, which means save now. They were asking for salvation from the Romans, but Jesus came to save them from their sins. They praised Jesus for bringing the kingdom of David, but he was actually coming to bring the kingdom of God. So how about us? Do we shout the right Hosanna? Are we expecting the right kingdom? In other words, do we praise and welcome Jesus for the right reasons? It's very easy to shout Hosanna in praise to Jesus for saving us from the things we want to have taken out of our lives, suffering, sorrow, poverty, sickness, struggle, and not what we most need to have removed, sin. It is easy to ask Jesus to come and set up our own self-serving kingdom, but he comes only. to set up the kingdom of God. Thankfully, what Jesus brings is what we most need. We need to be saved from ourselves. And only Jesus. could do that. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 87 as we continue praying through the Psalms. This is a Psalm of the Sons of Korah. It's a psalm. On the holy mount stands the city he founded. The Lord loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob. Glorious things of you are spoken, O city of God. Among those who know me I mention Rahab and Babylon, behold, Philistia and Tyre with Cush. This one was born there, they say, and of Zion it shall be said, this one and that one were born in her, for the Most High Himself will establish her The Lord records as he registers the peoples, this one was born there. Singers and dancers alike say, All my springs are in you. Psalm 87 is a psalm that celebrates the city of God, which represents the people of God. And to be born into the people of God is to enter into the kingdom of God, into the covenant community, into the people over whom Christ rules as king. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for sending your son to be our King and our Redeemer. May we praise him for who he is. May we welcome the kingdom that he comes to bring. May we rejoice that we are counted worthy by your grace, made worthy in Christ to enter into your kingdom, to be born in Zion to be born a member of the people of God. May we rejoice in your people. May we be refreshed by your Holy Spirit. May we say that all of our springs are in you and in your people, and may we rightly Worship, rejoice, and exalt the Lord Jesus in our lives, in your church, in this world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hopefully you can join me again tomorrow, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.