Passage for today is in Hebrews chapter two. Hebrews chapter two Our passage is verses 5 through 18, but I'm going to go ahead and start reading at the beginning of the chapter. This is the Word of God. Therefore, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it. For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable, and every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution, how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard, while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, distributed according to his will. For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere. What is man? that you are mindful of him, or the Son of Man that you care for him. You have made him a little lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside of his control. At present We do not yet see everything in subjection to him, but we see him, who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death So that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. For it was fitting that he For whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies, and those who are sanctified, all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children God has given me since therefore. The children share in flesh and blood. He himself likewise partook of the same things. that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil. and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham Therefore, he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for for the sins of the people, for because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. Father, please write your word on our hearts. Help us to understand it. But more than that, help us to believe it and to respond in true and saving faith to it, that we might treasure your truth. And live in this salvation that has been so wondrously won for us by Jesus, the founder of our salvation. It's in his name we ask. Amen. You may be seated. So if you look at our sermon graphic on the cover of your bulletin, our great Savior, Jesus in Hebrews, he came to be one of us. That's our message for today. He offered himself for us. That's our message for Thursday. And he rose again to save us. Forever. That's our message for Resurrection Day. So here we are in Hebrews 2, and Jesus here is called the founder of our salvation, the founder of our salvation. What is a founder? Well If you think back with me to 1776, we have a famous group of founders that we can reflect on what it means to be a founder and to found something. By 1776, we know that the American colonists of Great Britain had had enough. They'd been subject to unjust taxation without representation by a parliament that had no legitimate jurisdiction over them. They'd been forced to house troops sent from England to suppress them. They'd been harassed and provoked into conflict. And now finally they decided to declare their independence. And in the Declaration of Independence signed on that July 4, 1776, the founders of our nation Risked their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to state clearly what had gone wrong in their relationship to England and what principles they would seek to uphold in their new nation. Which is a new undertaking for the ages, is what they called it. Ben Franklin famously said to his fellow founders in Independence Hall, gentlemen, we must all hang together. Or we will surely hang separately. And we remember the work of our founders every 4th of July. At least some people remember. Most people just eat too much and watch fireworks. What what does that have to do with Jesus being the founder of our salvation? Well, you see, in seventeen seventy-six something had gone wrong. And things were in a very bad state. And so there was a need to create a new order. Ever watch the news for just a few minutes? I really can't stand to watch it for much more than a few minutes Or spend a few minutes on social media and you think, what in the world is wrong with this world? I mean, just a mess. People being ugly and mean and violent and vindictive What is what is wrong with this world? You ever think what does God think about his world and what people have done to it? Well, we don't need to wonder Either what's wrong with the world or what God thinks about it, because the Bible tells us exactly what's gone wrong with the world and exactly what God thinks of it In the beginning, of course, God created the heavens and the earth in power, wisdom, and love. He created a good world. He filled his world with life and beauty. Which we see echoes of this time of year as colors burst forth and life comes out. We see that God, if you read Genesis 1, God created a world of beauty and order and life, teeming with life in every sphere. He made people in his own image and he put those people in charge of creation and he told them With a blessing and a charge to say, be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth, spread my image all over the world, that the world might know what I am like. And God said that his creation was very good. But not much time went by before everything went very wrong in God's very good world. Adam and Eve sinned. They rebelled against God. They chose willingly to put themselves under the tyranny of the devil. You think about that. God had created everything It was good, it was abundant, it was beautiful, it was full of life. God had made them in his image, God had blessed them, God had said, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. I'm giving you the privilege to rule over all creation, over the birds of the air and the fish of the sea and the land animals. You go and take care of my creation and I will bless you. And because there was one tree that they were told they couldn't have, and one crafty serpent who said, did God really say They chose deliberately to put themselves under the authority of a serpent rather than the good God who made them. And that brought ruin and misery into the world. And, you know, my kids, when they were younger, used to get really mad at Adam and Eve. They'd be like, man. Man, this, why'd they have to mess it up for everybody? And I would say, well, what do you think you would have done if you had been in their situation? Probably the same thing. Yeah, probably the same thing. So don't get too mad at Adam and Eve. Our human nature, even without sin, because we're fallible and we're human We we blow it. And now, since that fall, everyone's born with a sinful nature in the world, and the world has been subject to curse and corruption and death. And ruin and misery plague God's still good and beautiful world, but it's not the way that he intended it to be. And so God promises a new world, a world to come. The opening of verse 5 talks about The world to come of which we are speaking. This is the new age that is coming. And just as our country needed founders, so the new age to come needs a founder. And Jesus is the founder of that salvation, of that world to come, of that glory to which God is bringing many sons. Since it was people who were made in the image of God, it was people who were given the privilege of ruling over God's good creation, and it was people who blew it. and who ruined everything, it had to be a person, a man, made in the image of God to undo that mess. A man had to undo the mess that man had created. That's the way it works within God's economy. God is gracious, far more gracious than I would be. I often think the world, including me, should be very, very thankful that I'm not God because I don't have that kind of patience. It astounds me really, some people talk about the God of the Old Testament. And they say the God of the Old Testament is a God of wrath and judgment who's just always smiting people and he seems to have a bad temper and to wake up on the wrong side of the bed. He's always angry about everything And to which I always think, have you actually read the Old Testament? Because he's far more patient than you would be if you were him. I mean, the stubborn rebellion and the repeated sin and the ridiculousness of people. But God loves his people. We saw it again in Sunday school today as we're going through Nehemiah and the teachings. Teaching that Ezra was giving in the book of Nehemiah of this whole long history of hundreds of years. You know, God gave you good promises, God was gracious to you, God delivered you, you turned aside the idols and you neglected God and you went your own way. But God you know, disciplined you and God restored you and God was good to you. And as we went through it, Jonathan was really good to say, wrap it back to the end and say, This is us. This is us. Has God been good to us? Does he provide for us? Does he make precious promises to us? Does he keep those promises to us? And how do we respond to him? Do I really have to go to church today? Do I really have to read my Bible? Yeah. Oh, it's so hard. Like, we're so selfish and so petty and so impatient and so grumpy. But God is good. And God loves people. And God is so committed to people that he's willing to go to the furthest lengths to save us. Us. Right? Here we go outside at night just to look at the stars. Gotta be in a place where there's not so much light pollution around, or maybe it's a moonless night especially, but Oh, I love looking at the stars. Especially if I'm out in a place where I can really see a lot of them. Where you ever just watch the sunset? And the colors or or the sunrise. Or stand at the edge of the ocean and just watch the vastness and listen to the rhythmic pounding of the waves and just Imagine the scope of the power of God's creation. And you feel like Such an awesome world. Such an awesome universe. And we're so small. We're so insignificant. That's what uh In verse 6, when the writer of Hebrews says, it's been testified somewhere, what is man that you are mindful of him, it's actually from Psalm 8. And right before that verse Psalm 8 says, When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have set in place, what is man that you are mindful of him? And the Son of Man that you care for him. Yet you've made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, and crowned him with glory and honor. You've given him dominion over the works of your hands You've put all things under his feet. We've never given God anything We've never put God in our debt. God doesn't owe us anything, and yet God has given us this unique position of honor, responsibility, and privilege. In all of God's creation. All this means that we need to have a human Savior to come and save human beings because of the special place that human beings have within God's creation. Only when God Rescues people through a human savior, can creation itself be then fully redeemed and transformed Romans 8 tells us the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. In bringing many sons to glory, as verse 10 says, Jesus not only fully and finally redeemed A people for God and brings us into a new world. But the whole of creation is then transformed and glorified into this world to come. I love watching really good nature documentaries. And they're just stunning. What what what they're able to do now with the high definition cameras they have and the shots that they're able to get get it's just it's just absolutely stunning and I'm always struck by the beauty and the power and the majesty of God's creation But also there's the sadness, right? There's the death, there's the hunger, there's the savagery There's the waste. And so there's this sense in which, yes, God made this world so beautiful, and yet it is so tainted and stained. And how much better. Can you imagine how much better the world to come is going to be? When all the stain and all the waste and all the shadow of suffering is removed, that's where God's taking us. If we are one of his children who trust in him. If we are the offspring of Abraham, as uh verse sixteen says. He helps the offspring of Abraham. Who are the offspring of Abraham? Those who have faith like Abraham and who are united to Christ, the seed of Abraham. So that's what God's doing. What did it take for God to do that? It wasn't a small undertaking. One of the most compelling stories, rescue stories in recent years, was uh the story of the the soccer team that was stuck in the cave. Have you guys seen that? Oh, it's astounding. Thirteen lives. Astounding rescue story. I mean, what those guys had to go through To get to these youths who are stuck in this cave, I mean it's flooded underwater. It watching people swim through caves underwater freaks me out. Makes me very uncomfortable. My heart's race. I'm just sitting in my living room watching it. I'm just like, oh this is r how could you do that? But they had to go there and they and then they decided they needed to just have these kids be uncomfortable because they had to get them out and they couldn't have them, you know, try to drag me underwater, let me tell you, you better knock me out first. But they and they got them all out. It was amazing, right? But you know, that's nothing compared to the rescue story of when God came into the world to rescue his children and his creation. Hebrews 2 tells us he had to be made like his brothers in every respect. The glorious, eternal Son of God, who is the radiance of the glory of God, had to become Like his brothers in every respect. He had to take on our full human nature, he had to take on the full weight of flesh and blood. He had to enter into an ex experience our suffering and then experience more suffering than we could ever imagine by becoming sin for us and being cursed and crushed on the cross. Think about the ways that Jesus suffered. Just by becoming human. Let's think about this for a minute. He who was is by nature the very God of very God. who dwells in unapproachable light, who is glorious beyond human imagination, he entered into our humanity by becoming a tiny human being in the womb of the Virgin Mary. He was born in a humble and poor condition. He was wrapped in strips of cloth and laid in an animal feeding trough, rough wood and scratchy straw, and strips of cloth. Welcomed and honored only by his poor parents and some smelly shepherds, he lived a life of relative obscurity and poverty and was often misunderstood and rejected. Despised by his own earthly family and his own nation. But then Hebrews tells us he suffered when tempted. He suffered when tempted. Jesus endured the full suffering of being tempted personally by Satan with the maximum weight of temptation. any human being has ever faced. You and I, you and I never ever experience the full weight of temptation because we give in. We give in so early and so easily. It takes like 3% level of temptation. We're like, uh, that's too hard. Think about it, Satan himself put the full weight of his tempting power on Jesus. Satan was never interested in causing any human being to sin more than he was in trying to get Jesus to sin, and he put that s that weight on him, and Jesus Jesus suffered in obedience to his father. He had to learn obedience through what he suffered. Hebrews also tells us, in seeking to obey his father and to go through with his commitment to go to the cross for our sins. And his self-sacrifice, Jesus suffered such agony in the Garden of Gethsemane that his sweat became drops of blood, and he needed to be strengthened by an angel just to endure the suffering. And yet, through all this suffering, he never surrendered to temptation. He never gave up. He endured in faithful obedience. In Hebrews 12, the other place where Jesus is called the founder, we read this. Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and the sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Jesus endured the cross, the suffering required for our salvation, for the joy that was set before us. Him. And that was the joy of what? The joy of bringing many sons to glory. The joy of having you and me in the world to come with him. Pleasing his Father by having us sit at the table with him. That should be an encouragement on your worst day. Jesus endured the cross because he wanted you with him in his family, in his home, forever. It's also an example for us of how it is that we can endure suffering. How do we endure suffering? Because we do live in a fallen world And we do have a sinful nature, and we do suffer. How do we endure it? We have to be focused on the joy that is coming. On the joy that is coming. We go through because there's something better ahead, something far better, something unimaginably better. What are we saved from by Jesus' suffering and victory over sin and death? It's so much more than just, well, we get to go to heaven when we die. That's true, and that's wonderful, and I'm so thankful for that. But that's a bit simplistic and reductionistic. We're saved from more than just that. We are in the future, we're brought into the world to come, which is this glorious new heavens and new earth. But even in this life, we're saved received from so much. All human beings. Our passage tells us that all human beings Are held in a lifelong slavery through the fear of death. The one thing everybody knows Is that one day we're going to die. And that's usually we try to shove that to the back of our minds and not think about it. But it's like a haunting And Satan uses that. Our fear of death. He uses it to make cowards and slaves of us. If you study human history um too much, you'll learn that so many of the really horrifically evil and truly cruel things people have done throughout history Have been because they were afraid that if they stepped out and challenged the system, they would be killed. I went to a conference a couple years ago. uh and s confronted by the reality, you know, that Adolf Hitler never actually killed anybody You say, oh Hitler killed eleven million people in the Holocaust. Actually he didn't. He got other people to do it for him. And they did so willingly Thousands of people did so willingly. Why? Because they were afraid of death. They were afraid if they did something, it would be them. That's a slavery that we're held in by this fear of death, and Jesus sets us free from that. Jesus sets us free from that kind It's why in the early days of the church, when the martyrs were brought into the arenas and they were put on display, those who were unafraid And they were put on display. The thousands of people who gathered together could not understand what these Christians had that nobody else had. Here they were being threatened with death, and they sang praises to God. They boldly testified to the reality of Jesus. They were free. You see, even before they went to heaven to be with God, they were free. So not only that, but he also saves us from the feeling of helplessness and loneliness that we often face in the face of temptation. How often do we struggle with feeling like we're alone? Like we're the only ones facing the kind of temptation that we're facing and that we just can't do it. We're helpless. That's not true. It's not true that we're the only ones, and it's not true that we're helpless, and Jesus frees us from that feeling. If we go to him. First Corinthians ten thirteen reminds us that no temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted. Tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. Every temptation is common to know And Jesus faced them all, and he overcame them all, and he can help us through all of them. Do you believe that? You might think, well, Jesus never had the internet. Jesus didn't have to deal with rush hour traffic on 95. No, but he faced every kind of temptation. Here's what the Bible says. The Bible says that there really are only three major categories of temptation that people face. There's the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. Let me break that down for you real quick. The lust of the flesh, that's the animalistic, craving-driven, appetite-demanding temptations like gluttony and lust and sloth. It's like, I just want to be satisfied. Right? Lust of the flesh. Jesus faced that temptation when after 40 days of having nothing to eat, Satan came to him and said, If you're the Son of God, why don't you take that I don't know how hungry a person is after 40 days of not eating. I've never experienced that But that's a hunger. We know that Jesus got hungry. We know that he got thirsty. We know that he got tired. He was fully human like all of us. So he faced that temptation. He could have. He could have very easily. He could have justified it a hundred different ways in his mind. I've gone the 40 days. What more does God expect of me? All these sort of self-pitying things that we do in the face of temptation. But he didn't. He didn't do it. He didn't give in. The lust of the eyes is a materialistic, possessive sin like greed, covetousness, and envy. Jesus faced this when he was shown all the kingdoms of the world. And all their riches, and he was told, I'll give you all of this if you'll just bow down and worship me. Think of what people are willing to do for so much less than all the kingdoms of the world and all their wealth. You just have to bow the knee and worship. A little bit of worship. He didn't do it. He didn't do it. And then the pride of life is our self-centered boasting in what we have or what we do, our arrogance, our condescension. Our sense of entitlement. Here Satan took Jesus to the pinnacle of the temple and said, Throw yourself down from the temple, because it is written in Psalm ninety-one, he will command his angels concerning you, and they will bear you up on their wings lest you f Strike your foot against the stone. See, Jesus, if you throw yourself down from here, the angels will come, they'll bear you up, everyone will see how great you are. That's a good show. Jesus didn't give in to it. Every time he answered with the Word of God, and he depended on the strength of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. Jesus overcame every temptation. And then in the Garden of Eden, or in the Garden of Gethsemane, rather, Satan came back with an even more intense temptation. Temptation, because a more demanding test was before him. And Jesus passed. Though the agony was so great that his Sweat with drops of blood. Jesus passed. Jesus overcame. Now, here's the thing. Be honest for a minute. How do you feel when you pass a really difficult and challenging test? Feel pretty good, right? Yeah. You just get a little bit full of yourself? Or is it just me? Like, oh yeah, see, did that You guys couldn't do that, but I I did it. Right? But Jesus doesn't do that because he's not puffed up with pride like we are. Jesus, having passed every test, we're told he becomes a merciful and faithful high priest. Instead, he comes to us and he says, I know what that's like. I've been through that. Let me help you. I understand it's hard. Let me walk with you. Let me carry you He's a merciful and faithful high priest because of what he suffered and he overcame. And how does he help us? He helps us. He's able to help those who are being tempted. Do we believe that? He does. He helps us through his word, which gives us the truth and helps us cut through the lies of the devil, the father of lies. We go to the word and we see the truth. And the fog lifts. He helps us through his example of showing us what a loving, faithful, obedient life looks like. He helps us through our intercession for us. He never stops. Praying for us. He helps us through the Holy Spirit, whom He's poured out upon us, who lives within us, and who gives us help, conviction, comfort, strength. He hears us when we cry to him and he welcomes us in our weakness. He sends us grace to empower us against temptation and to reassure us of forgiveness when we fall. He is our righteousness before God. He is our acceptance before the throne of grace. He's our advocate with the Father, our older brother, our kinsman redeemer. Our example to follow, our strength and weakness, our forgiveness and guilt, our covering for our shame, and our security from the enemy's attacks. That's how he helps us every day. And how do we get the help? It's really very simple. We trust him enough to go to him for it. Trust him enough to go to him for it. Well, that means we can't pretend like we've got it all in hand. Our human weakness is so tricky. And ridiculous. Because what we do is we say, Oh, I got it. I can handle this. I got this under control. I've I've been through this kind of thing before. I I know what I'm doing. That's all right. I'll call you when I need you. I got this one. And then of course we don't got it, and so we blow it. And then we say, oh man. I should have gone to Jesus, but I blew it. Such a loser. I can't I can't go to him now. I mean I should have gone to him before, but I can't I can't now. It's just too bad. It's our self-reliance and then our shame that both keep us from Jesus and and Satan is like a virtuoso. He works those things like a A master. To break free, we have to just trust. When we're weak, Jesus will be our strength. When we've sinned, he will be our forgiveness. When we're ashamed, he will be our covering. When we can't stand, he will carry us And all he says is, Come to me. And we don't do so on our own. Look around you. Everybody around you is facing the same struggle that you face. Same kinds of temptations, same kinds of struggles. Some are a little further along the road than you, some are a little bit further back on the road, some of you are right where you are. God's given us each other to walk together. To more than anything else, what we're supposed to do is point one another to Jesus. Encourage one another. We sing to one another. We confess our faith to one another so that we can encourage one another. That's why we need to be here week after week. And we need to be in each other's lives day by day. God has been good to us. God has given us everything we need. A fully human, sympathetic, merciful, and faithful high priest. who's overcome everything for us. And then he takes all of us and puts us in a family together and says, I am working in you, I'm working among you, seek me, help each other, and I will bring you. All the way home. So, what are we going to do? Are we going to trust him? Are we going to go to him? Are we going to encourage each other? Are we going to walk together? Or are we going to neglect such a great salvation and drift away? God is so good. He's so patient. He's so wonderfully worthy of our trust. Let's go to him and let's encourage each other to do that day by day. Let's pray. Oh Father, thank you for such a merciful and faithful high priest. Thank you for such a gracious Savior. A founder unlike anyone else. And he's ours. And we are his. We are blessed. Thank you. Help us to go to Jesus all day, every day. Help us to encourage one another to go to Jesus all day, every day. On our good days, on our bad days. On our days when we feel alone, on our days when we feel like we could conquer the world, we always stand in need of Jesus and one another. Help us to walk that way, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.