Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I am Pastor Jason Van Lemmel. It is good to be with you as we're into our ninth week now together going through the Heidelberg Catechism from 1563, a series of questions and answers that is designed to lead us into God's. comfort. What is your only comfort in life and in death? The opening question famously asks, that I am not my own is the answer. That's radical gospel comfort. In America, in twenty twenty six, that can almost seem like blasphemy, heresy. How could we possibly say that we get comfort from the fact that we are not our own? But that is the comfort the gospel brings. We have been purchased by the blood of Christ. We belong body and soul in life and in death to our faithful Savior Jesus Christ. That's where we're heading, but we want to have that solidly woven into the very fiber of our being. And so we're working our way through a series of questions and answers that lead us through Scripture, through the gospel, from guilt through grace to gratitude. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for giving us your Son. purchase us back from slavery to sin and death, from condemnation, back to you, back to our Creator, the one who loves us, our Redeemer, our Our ransom, the Lord Jesus Christ, is our eternal gospel hope. So as we think about your truth today, would you please write it on our hearts and may our love for Jesus and our appreciation for Him grow deeper and deeper. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, we're going from guilt through grace to gratitude. We are on our way here. We're in question 22 and 23 and 24, kind of looking at today combination of 22 or 23 and 24, which we're beginning to focus on the Apostles' Creed. Creeds have been summary statements of what it is to be a Christian, what it is that we must believe, the essence of our faith. And so Question 22 asks, what then must a Christian believe? And the answer is all that is promised us in the gospel, which The articles of our Catholic and undoubted Christian faith teach us in a summary. We covered this last week, but I just want to be clear. When you see Catholic lowercase c This is not Roman Catholic. We're not part of the Church of Rome. The Pope is not our bishop We are Christians, part of the universal church. Lowercase C Catholic just means universal worldwide And united. So we are part of the one true church and we have one true Christian faith It is Catholic, that is, it is universal in scope, it is for every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, and throughout every age of history. And it is undoubted. It is believed and securely held to by a countless multitude of people, witnesses all across the generations. And What is it? What are these articles of our Catholic and undoubted faith? Well, they are summarized for us in The Apostles Creed. The Apostles Creed. I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of Heaven and Earth I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified. dead and buried, he descended into hell. On the third day he rose again from the dead, he ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. Now, if you're really perceptible, And you've been part of Forest Hill Church for a while, you might think, well, these words are slightly different than the words that are in the back of the Trinity Hymnal and the Apostles' Creed we have there. Well, all of the modern versions of the Apostles' Creed, of course, are translations because in the original it was written in Greek. And so whenever you translate from the original to Greek, you may have slightly different word choices. But the essence, the truth The claims that are made here, there are 12 statements of truth, 12 assertions of belief, and they're grouped in three different parts. These are the same. And the essence of it is the same in every language for every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. It has been the same for hundreds and hundreds of years. Question 24 asks, how are these articles divided? And we've already talked about this, but the answer is it's divided into three parts. The first is about God the Father and our creation. The second about God the Son and our redemption. The third about God the Holy Spirit and our sanctification. Now we're using the word hour here because, again, the pursuit here is of gospel comfort. What is your only comfort in life and in death? Well, it's that God the Father is my creator, that God the Son is my Redeemer, and that God the Holy Spirit is my sanctifier. We're going to deal more with question 24 in our next devotional where we're talking about the Trinity. Today I just want to do a little bit more groundwork laying of like What is the purpose of creeds? Because depending on your background and how you were raised or where you're coming at this from, you might be thinking, oh, these creeds, that just feels Roman Catholic, it feels super traditionalist, it feels really unnecessary, this isn't really biblical, blah blah blah. I tried to make the case last week that creeds actually are biblical. And if you remember rightly, last week we took a look at 1 Timothy 3. 16, which is something that we confess. Great indeed is the mystery of godliness we confess, or great indeed we confess is the mystery of godliness, and then this is a confession of faith, a creed He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world. taken up in glory. That was probably memorized and recited in the early church. It may have been set to music and sung, but it is a creed. This is also where we get the the the the precedent for having a confession of faith in our worship service. So at Forest Hill, part of our weekly worship service is a confession of faith. Why? Because the pattern seems to be that the early church also had. a confession of faith. And last week I referenced another famous confession of faith in the New Testament, Philippians chapter 2, verses 5 through 11. So let's take a look at that now together. Paul says, have your m have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. And that part's probably Paul's introduction to it. And then beginning with this word who or he, it's a little Greek. Reflexive pronoun, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father This is known as the Christ Hymn or the Christ Creed. It is most Bible scholars agree. This is something that was already in circulation in the church, already being recited or sung in the early church as a hymn or a confession of faith or both. And it is focused on Christ. And it has a similar pattern to what is the heart of the Apostles' Creed, which would develop later after the the end of the New Testament. Sometime, we don't know exactly when, but sometimes in the early days of the church, the Apostles' Creed was developed. But I want you to see the pattern here The Christ Jesus here is the focus of the creed, and it's the focus on his humiliation, he humbled himself, and then his exaltation. So his coming down. And then his being lifted up. So his humiliation. Though he was in the form of God, he did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, by being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. That's the humiliation of Christ. And then, therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That's the exaltation. So this Philippians creedle hymn, which is how I like to think about it. It's a creed that I think probably was set to music and sung, but that's to help people memorize it and remember it. is focused on the humiliation and exaltation of Christ. If we go back to the Apostles' Creed, we see that in the main body of the Apostles' Creed. First of all, there's God the Father, which we'll look at all this in detail in coming days and weeks, but just notice the heart of it, the second article, which is the longest part about Jesus Christ. It's the humiliation. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried. And then he descended into hell, which is kind of a turning point, and we'll just talk about that. I think it's going to be April before we're there, but um he descended into hell. On the third day he rose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. Philippians makes reference to how every knee will bow. And every tongue confessed that Jesus Christ is Lord. The Apostles' Creed makes reference to how he's going to come to judge the living and the dead. You can see how the Apostles' Creed really is is in seed form here in the heart of Philippians 2 verses 5 through 11 because Christ is our salvation. He is our gospel comfort, and it's his work, it's his willingness to humble himself to the point of death, and then it's the work of God to exalt him far above Every other power, that's our salvation and that's our hope, and that's why the focus of our creed is there. It's also from the Apostle Paul in an even earlier letter of his, 1 Corinthians 15, which 1 Corinthians is one of the earliest letters In the New Testament, we know it was written right around 55 A. D. , so pretty early in the life of the church, about 25 years after Jesus died and rose again. Paul writes this to the church at Corinth, where he had been three or four years prior, and he had preached this to them when he was there. He says, Now I would remind you, brothers. of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you, unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received. And then you see the colon there. This is the last part of this is the creed that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried. that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures. Now that's a very short creed. It's not the shortest creed in the New Testament. Do you know what the shortest creed in the New Testament is? In Greek it's actually just two words. Yesu Kurios. Jesus is Lord or Christ is Lord. So Jesus is Lord or Christ is Lord is the shortest creed in the New Testament. But this is a little bit longer, and what do we see here? The same pattern. He died, he was buried, he rose. That's really what's at the heart of the Apostles' Creed as well. So the Apostles' Creed is biblical in its origin and in its purpose Why does the church have these creeds? Why do we say together? Why do we confess our faith together? Because it is a reminder of where our hope is from. And it's also a reminder of the source of our unity. We come into worship and we come from all different backgrounds, all different walks of life. There are rich people and poor people and educated people and less educated people. There are people from this kind of cultural background, that kind of cultural background, and the church has always been that way. What is our hope and what is our unity? In other words, why are we here and what holds us together? The creed reminds us of that. It reminds us of where our hope is found and where our unity is found. That Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures. I hope that as we dig into the Apostles' Creed at these coming weeks, you will have a deeper appreciation for why it matters that we confess our faith together. And that we confess our faith together using the words that the church has used for centuries. It's a powerful reminder of our hope and of our unity in Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for giving us life in your Son Jesus. Lord Jesus, thank you for coming from heaven to earth. And then to a cross to die for us. Holy Spirit, thank you for bringing us to Jesus and applying to our souls the benefits of his redemption. May our faith in Christ be something that we love to confess and that we love to confess together with your people. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for another Heidelberg Catechism Devotional. As always, we will respond to the truth of what God has given to us in the gospel in song together. Guide me oh my great redeem build control. This barren land when I'm there with me, Jesus, lead me by your heaven. Let your speed. I will trust you through the darkness. You will not be me. Christ before me, Christ behind me, Christ within me every day, be my And then Christ will over Jesus got me all the way. Like the be my vision day and night, like the man. I will see your love clench my fur twin faint living on a light rock On his journey, only you can't Christ is only Christmas. Christ may be every day. We might have been transferred. Jesus guided all the way. Lead me on willing to dial to love. Yet to see Bring me to that country Where I'll finally be free where thy need shows For I know your man will keep me till I'm safe from kings. Christ is holding me, Christ is hiding me, Christ is me, the heavy joy, be my time. Jesus can be all the way Christ before me, Christ behind me, Christ believe me. Every day between my time past for an Jesus can Jesus got me all