Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior veteran, Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you as we are in John 8. The second half of the chapter, verses thirty-one to fifty-nine, Jesus makes one of his most famous statements in this half of John 8. And so we're going to be asking the question, what did Jesus mean? when he said, uh, does the truth will set you free? Or another way to ask it is, how does the truth set us free? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much. For your word. Thank you for your son, who is the word of God incarnate. Thank you for the truth that we hear from your son. Through the Word of God, we pray that you would write your word on our hearts today and that you would grow us in Christ. It's in His name we pray. Amen. Oh, John 8, 31 to 59. So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. They answered him, We are offspring of Abraham, and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The son remains forever. So if the sun sets you free, you will be free indeed. I know that you are offspring of Abraham, yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. I speak of that which I have seen with my father, and you do not And you do what you have heard from your father. They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. You are doing the works your father did. They said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God. Jesus said to them. If God were your father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me. Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. You are of your father, the devil. And your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. The Jews answered him. Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. Truly, truly, I say to you, if any one keeps my word, he will never see death The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets, yet you say, if any one keeps my word, he will never taste death. Are you greater than our father Abraham who died? And the prophet decided, Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God. But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him and I keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. Well that is John 8, 31 to 59. And as I said in the beginning, this is one of the most famous sayings of Jesus. It's here in verse 32, you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. I remember years ago, uh being on the campus of the University of Virginia. University of Virginia has one of the most beautiful uh campus quads in all of, you know, college world. It it's just beautiful. You got the rotunda at one end and you've got the student housing in the in the original sort of campus there and at the other end of the quad is is Cabell Hall. And in front of Cabell Hall is the sculpture of Homer. you know, the blind Greek poet who wrote the Iliad and the Odyssey. And above the columns on Cavel Hall inscribed are the words of Jesus in Greek, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. Now, I don't know what the intent of Thomas Jefferson or the original builders whoever built Cavill Hall was. But this is a kind of an example that stands out in my mind of how people take this this saying of Jesus and and they kind of make it into a proverb or they make it into a a a saying, just a a truism. If you know any truth, it sets you free from ignorance, which will hold you into bondage. Now There is a certain truth to that. Of course, it's better to know the truth than not know the truth. All truth is God's truth. And when you come to know any truth, There is, it's better off than not knowing it, it's better off than remaining in the darkness of ignorance. But that's not really what Jesus is talking about. In the context here, it's clear that Jesus is not just making a generalized statement about true things, right? Let's just let's just learn truth and that will set us free. Jesus is rather being very much self-referential. He's talking about himself. He's saying, I'm the truth And the reason why we know that, he's saying basically, I'm the truth, and if you know me, I will set you free. And the reason why we know that is you just keep reading in the context. Because they responded to this truth will set you free by saying, we're not slaves. How are we going to become free? And Jesus clarifies, if you sinned, you are a slave to sin. And then in verse 36 you get the key, if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed. So it is the Son of God who is the truth. Who has to set you free. So really, when Jesus says you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free, it is coming after if you abide in my word and you are truly my disciples So the context, this is just another example of what you see all over the Bible, which is context as king. You have a Bible verse, if you just have someone says, oh, John 8. 32, you will know the truth and the truth will set you free. You should ask. Well, what does John 8. 31 say? And what does John 8. 33 and 34 and 35 say? Because I need to see the context. And the context here is knowing the truth means abiding in Jesus' word so that you are truly his disciple. And having the truth set you free means having Jesus, who is the truth. Who is the Son of God, set you free. Now there's something else I want us to see here in this context. Notice who Jesus is talking to. So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him. If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. And they answered him. And throughout this conversation here, the they who is speaking to Jesus is the Jews who had believed him. Wait a minute, this certainly doesn't sound like the kinds of questions that genuine Christians would be asking. And that's right. Because not all faith is saving faith. Not all professions of faith come from a truly transformed heart That's actually why Jesus is going down this line of questioning. Remember in John 6, there had been a huge crowd of people ready to follow Jesus because they had eaten of the feeding of the five thousand. There's this crowd of thousands of people who had eaten this free meal from Jesus miraculously produced. They chase him down to the synagogue in Capernaum. They're ready to follow him. And he speaks some hard words about being the bread of life and about being the only one who can give life and people just turn turn around and walk away. And he's left with just the twelve. Now, here we were two chapters later, and again there's this big crowd, right? Many believed in him, is where verse 30 left off. But are they really believing in him? That's when Jesus says, if you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth. The truth will set you free. How do you know if someone has been set free? What does it look like to be set free by the truth? Well, what it means, what it looks like, is that you continue, you abide. In the Word of Jesus. In other words, you continue to believe, you continue to follow, you continue to read the Bible so that you can learn from Jesus. That is what it means to be set free. By nature, we're all in bondage to sin. We come to Jesus not because he's great or he makes us feel good or we went to a emotionally exciting and charged event and we had an emotional reaction. We come to Jesus because we know that on our own we're in sin and we need to be set free. And Jesus is the only one who can set us free. And if we know that, then we want to abide in him, in his word, and have his word abide in us. We want to be disciples of Jesus. We don't just want to be emotionally responsive. Remember the parable of the four soils from Matthew, Mark, and Luke? The parable of the four soils is the most important parable Jesus ever told, because he says, if you haven't understood this parable, how will you understand it? I understand any of the parables. And remember that in the parable of four soils, the seed that falls on rocky ground, soil that has a thin layer of actual soil and then is all rock below that, it springs up quickly. And Jesus said, those are the ones who receive the word with great joy, but they have no root. They don't abide. Persecution arises on account of the word, and they wither away. Jesus is exposing the false faith of these who have believed him Believed in him, believed him, but not with a saving faith. This gets to a related question that a lot of people ask, and that is, can you lose your salvation? If you're a Christian, can you lose your salvation? Now the answer from the Bible is no. If you are truly saved, if you are truly born again, if you have seen and entered into the kingdom of God by trusting in Jesus Christ, you cannot lose your salvation. But that's not the end of the story because the Bible tells us the full truth and that is that there are many people who make a decision for Jesus or who have an emotional response to Jesus or who or who begin to follow Jesus and then fall away. Apostasy is real. Apostasy is the sin of falling away. And apostates are not saved. But it's not the case that they lost their salvation. What Jesus is telling us here in John 8 is that they never had it to begin with. And if you just read John 8 with having in mind, these are people who made a profession of faith. These are people who had believed him who were saying these things about Him and saying these things to him. It's clear they're not really believers. So, what does it mean for the truth to set you free? It means that you've seen that you are a slave to sin. That only Jesus can set you free. You have trusted in him for salvation. He has set you free in such a way that you will abide in him And his words will abide in you, and you will know the truth, because you will know Jesus, and he will set you free. And if the Son has set you free, you are free indeed. The point of today's devotional message here is not to make you uncertain of your faith, not to make you doubt your salvation. It's to make you press in harder into following Jesus because you know that he He's the only one who can save you. As Peter said, when all the rest of the people turned away in John 6, and Jesus turns to the twelve and says, Are you going to leave two? Peter said, Where else can we go? You alone have the words of eternal life. And so that should be our response to say, well, I don't want to have a false faith. I don't want to believe in some abstract principle. I need Jesus. And I want him to abide in me, and I want to abide in him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son to be our Savior. We need to be saved from our sin. Sin holds us in bondage, a bondage that is death. And we need to be set free. Thank you for setting us free in Jesus. Would you lead us in paths of righteousness? Would you have your word abide in us and that we may abide in your word, and that we would be free indeed through Jesus our Savior? It is in his name that we pray. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was a blessing to you. If you have any questions about anything you hear, you can email me. My email address is pastor at foresthillpca. org. That's pastor at foresthillpaca. org. And I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.