Psalm twenty two is written to the choirmaster. According to the dough of the dawn, and it is a psalm of David My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning? Oh my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel. In you our fathers trusted. They trusted and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued. In you they trusted and were not put to shame. But I am a worm and not a man. Scorned by mankind and despised by the people, all who see me mock me. They make mouths at me. They wag their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him. For he delights in him. Yet you are He who took me from the womb. You made me trust you At my mother's breasts. On you was I cast from my birth. And from my mother's womb you have been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help Many bulls have encompassed me. Strong bulls of Vation surround me. They open wide their mouths at me like a ravening and roaring lion. I am poured out like water. All of my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted within my breast. My strength. is dried up like a pot shirt, and my tongue sticks to my jaws. You lay me in the dust of death. For dogs encompass me, a company of evildoers encircles me. They have pierced my hands and feet I can count all my bones, they stare and gloat over me, they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. But you, O Lord, do not be far off O you, my help, come quickly to my aid. Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. Save me from the mouth of the lion. You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen. I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will praise you. You who fear the Lord, praise him. All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel, for he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. And he has not hidden his face from him, but has heard when he cried to him, From you comes my praise. In the great congregation. My vows I will perform before those who fear him. The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied. Those who seek him shall praise the Lord. May your hearts live forever. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord. All the families of the nations. shall worship before you for kingship belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations. All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship. Before him shall bow down all who go down to the dust. Even the one who could not keep himself alive. Posterity shall serve him. It shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation They shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn, that he has done it. Let's pray. Father, what an awesome text of Scripture. Your word is living and active and powerful. What a vibrant portrait of Christ. In his suffering, in his triumph. Please write this on our hearts that we might see and love and cherish and follow and worship Jesus more for the time we spend together. Together in your word this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name and for His glory in our lives and in your church. Amen In our summer series in the Psalms, Psalm 22 has a very compelling place. A couple of weeks ago, when Sean was preaching on Psalm 20, it was the prayer for victory for the king. Right? That we're not going to trust in horses or chariots, we're going to trust in the Lord our God. But Lord, please give the king victory. And then last week in Psalm 21, it was rejoicing in the victory of that king. And the effects that that king's victory has for us. Well, today, it's the cost of that victory. What did the king's victory cost him? And More than anything else, Psalm 22 highlights that for Christ on the cross, there was a feeling of being utterly alone. utterly forsaken and abandoned. We never feel so alone as when we are suffering. When we are deep in suffering, we feel like nobody understands what we're going through. Nobody really connects with the fears that we have, the anxieties we have, the pain that we're going through, the anguish, the doubt. You know, it does help to talk to other people who have been through similar things. We've had some folks in this church who, you know, they've come through cancer and they've been able to talk to other people who get diagnosed with cancer and and offer them some encouragement. We've had people in the church who've lost uh children and others have extended comfort, but even that you think, well, they don't really know what I'm going through through because my pain is so unique and at those times even God can feel miles and miles away And you can pray and you can try to pray and the words don't come. And when the words do come, it feels like you're just kind of going through the motions, and you feel like your prayers aren't even leaving the room. And It can feel like the only answer you get from God is silence This morning we come to Psalm 22 and all of God's word is holy and living and active and powerful, but I, Psalm 22 and Isaiah 53 to me are high holy ground. in God's Word. Been to Israel a couple of times, had the privilege to be able to walk where Jesus walked and people refer to Israel as the Holy Land and And they say, well, Jesus stood here, this is holy ground. And I I get that sentiment. I understand the sense of that. But here we have A psalm which Jesus lived. It was written for him a thousand years before he would come into this world. He knew exactly what he was in for when he came into the world because his experience had already been written. It had already been communicated through his human ancestor David a thousand years prior. And this is the experience of Jesus On the cross. You know, in the Gospels, we don't get that much of a sense of what all of this was like for Jesus. We get descriptions of what happened to him, we get an account But we don't get a sense of what is he really going through in all of this? What is he thinking? What is he feeling? And we're given that in Psalm 22. And Jesus himself invites us to look to Psalm 22 when he's on the cross because the first thing he cries out is, Eloi, Eloi, Lama Sabakdani. Which is in Aramaic, the language of the Jewish people at the time. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And so he's inviting us to go to Psalm 22 to see the suffering. David wrote Psalm 22. Undoubtedly, it came out of some experience of suffering in his own life, but as we've seen in other psalms, the Holy Spirit lifted David up above his own suffering. Describe things that he never experienced. One of the remarkable things about Psalm 22 is it gives us a very detailed description of crucifixion. of what it was like to be publicly crucified. And crucifixion was invented by the Romans Hundreds of years after David wrote Psalm 22. There was no method of execution in David's day where they would pierce your hands. and your feet, where they would strip you of all of your clothing and nail you in the hands and the feet. And it certainly David never experienced anything like that, but he was lifted up by the Holy Spirit out of his suffering to connect to the sufferings of his human descendant who was his Lord, Jesus. And there's power in that because we realize that our sufferings are connected to the sufferings of Christ. And the sufferings of Christ are connected to our sufferings. Think of what the Apostle Paul experienced at his conversion. When he was on the road to Damascus, he was heading out to persecute other Christians and to drag them off into prison, and he was stopped. by the Lord Jesus, who stopped him dead in his tracks, and knocked him off his high horse, and he fell to the ground. He was blinded by a light that was brighter than the noonday sun. And the voice said, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Jesus didn't say, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting my church? He said, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And then later, as the Apostle Paul would himself endure suffering, because he was told through Ananias, go and tell him, I'm going to tell him how much he's going to suffer going to suffer for my name. And so the Apostle Paul suffers being stoned and being beaten and being whipped. And he he writes about that and he says, I'm filling up in my body the afflictions of Christ. So, in some way, within God's economy of the union of the body of Christ, our sufferings are connected to Christ, and Christ's sufferings are connected to us. And so this psalm is is the psalm of Jesus on the cross. It's also the psalm of David and his suffering. It's also the psalm for us and our suffering as we look to Christ and as we belong to Christ. And it breaks into three sections. Verses 1 to 11 show us that Christ was forsaken by God and yet trusting in God. And then verses 12 to 21 show us the intense suffering of Christ. And yet how he was praying throughout. And then starting at the end of verse 21 and going to the end of the Psalm in verse 31, we see Christ rescued from death by God. and rejoicing in the salvation of his father, which is for all nations and all generations. So the first thing we see Is Jesus being forsaken by God and yet trusting? Verses 1 to 11, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far? from saving me, from the words of my groaning. Oh my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. Yet you are holy. Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel. In you our fathers trusted. They trusted and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued. In you they trusted and were not put to shame. But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by mankind and despised by the people. All who see me mock me They make mouths at me. They wag their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, for he delights in him. Yet you are he who took me from the womb. You made me trust you. At my mother's breasts, on you I was cast from birth, and from my mother's womb you have been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help. I said we never feel more alone than when we're intensely suffering. And there may have been times in your sufferings when you have felt abandoned by God. And you have felt like you didn't have hope. You didn't see help. But you know the truth of God's word and the truth of God's promises is more true and more powerful than our feelings. So here's the truth. When you feel overwhelmed by guilt or suffering, when you feel the anguish of doubt about the goodness of God because of the impossibility of your circumstances. When you lack faith to believe that God really hears and really cares, none of that cancels out the promises of God. And the promise of God for every believer is: never will I leave you. Never will I forsake you. And when God says never twice, he means never. You have never been left by God. You have never been forsaken by God. But Jesus was. Because when Jesus cried out Psalm 22, 1 from the cross, he was speaking the truth. Why would God abandon his only Son in his hour of greatest need? Well, the Bible tells us why. It's because God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, so that through him we might become the righteousness of God God made his son, innocent, pure, righteous, holy, to become sin, sin incarnate, cursed. on the cross, because it was the only way to free us from our sin, to remove the penalty, to remove all that we read in in Isaiah 53 earlier, on him was laid the iniquity of us all. That's why he was forsaken by God. Jesus had sought relief from this coming cup of wrath in the Garden of Gethsemane at night. He had prayed. Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me, because in his human nature, as a man who loved the Lord The last thing he wanted was to experience separation from his father and abandonment from his father. So he said, Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless Not my will, but your will be done. And it was the will of his father to crush him, to make his soul an offering for sin. He spent the night in the dark dungeon beneath Caiaphas' house, abandoned by his disciples. He was later unjustly condemned on trial, and through it all his father did not answer or rescue him, as he submitted himself to betrayal, abandonment, condemnation, beating, scourging. All the while his father turning his back, his father not looking upon the one who is being made sin for us. And yet, even in this abandonment, even in this abandonment, Jesus remembered that God is holy. And that God is trustworthy. Because He confesses here in Psalm 2022, yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel. You are holy. That means you are set apart, you are unique, you are transcendent, you are absolutely perfect in all of your ways. All of that is wrapped up in that wonderful word holy. And trustworthy. Our fathers trusted in you and you delivered them. From the womb you've made me trust in you. So no amount of actually being forsaken by his father, no amount of actually hearing, no answer to his prayer Would turn the Lord Jesus away from trusting in the character of God and the faithfulness of God. He would resolutely trust in God. And not be turned from his determined obedience. We need to know that. We need to know that in the depth of our souls. Because we've all prayed for things and not gotten the answers that we wanted. We've all agonized for things. And we have not heard what we were seeking. And in those moments we have to say, with Jesus on the cross, yet you are holy. enthroned on the praises of your people. Our fathers trusted in you and they were not disappointed. And I have been made by your grace to trust in you, and I will not stop trusting you. The second section of Psalm 22 shows us the intense suffering of Christ, and here we get a remarkable description. of crucifixion, of what it was like to experience crucifixion. Starting in verse 12. Many bulls encompass me. Strong bulls of Vatiance surround me. They open wide their mouths at me like a ravening and roaring lion. Bulls are strong. powerful. And Bashan has been used in scripture to refer to the affluent and the successful among God's people because Bashin was a very lush ground in the northern part of Israel where there was a tremendous amount of wealth. And I believe these verses are talking about the fact that surrounding Jesus was were the wealthy elite. Among God's people, the ruling Sanhedrin, the chief priests and the family, the family of Caiaphas. I've been in Caiaphas's house and been down into the dungeon beneath where Jesus was held captive. And it was a pretty impressive place and grounds because he was one of the powerful ones. And that's who surrounded Jesus. They were making fun of him. They were condemning him. They were seeking to destroy him because they thought he was a threat to their power. Verse 14, I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted. within my breast, my strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue sticks to my jaws. You lay me in the dust of death. So in crucifixion They lay you down on the ground and nail your hands stretched out and your feet. And then they lift up the cross and drop it into a hole. It's like being poured out. And the force of being dropped into the hole with your wrists nailed knocks your shoulders out of joint, which makes it painful because Most people, when they experience crucifixion, they die of suffocation. Because the only way you can breathe is to pull yourself up. And get a good breath, and then to be able to exhale. And you're pulling yourself up on nails that are through your wrists and shoulders that are out of joint from being dropped into the hole. But Jesus, the crucifixion of Jesus has interestingly been written up in a number of medical journals. And uh I spent some time looking over some of those medical journals as they speculate about how Jesus was killed. But one one leading theory Is that because when they pierced Jesus' side, blood and water flowed, that that was the rupturing of his pericardium? That he died of a broken heart. His heart burst within his chest, as my heart is like wax, it is melted within my breast. That that's why the blood and the water flowed. when they pierced. It didn't gush out blood that was being actively pumped by the heart. Just blood and water flowed. We know that Jesus suffered intense thirst on the cross. My tongue sticks to my jaws. One of the things he cried out from the cross was, I thirst. And in response to his thirst, they gave him sour wine to drink. That's red wine vinegar. That's what you want when you're thirsty, right? Let's get a sponge full of red wine vinegar and stick that in your mouth Verse 16, For dogs encompass me, a company of evildoers encircles me, they have pierced my hands and my feet. Dogs was a reference to Gentiles, a company of evildoers. I believe this is a reference to the Roman soldiers who are right around the cross. They have done evil things to Jesus. They have stripped him, they have beaten him, they have mocked him, they have ridiculed him, and they have pierced his hands and feet. And yet verse 17, I can count all my bones. We know that none of Jesus' bones were broken. That was sometimes necessary in crucifixion. If the person wasn't dying quick enough and they needed to speed up the process, because again, you have to lift yourself up to get a breath. And it's already painful enough with the wrists and the shoulders, but you're pushing up from your feet, which are also pierced. So what they would do to hasten the process is they would break the legs. So that way when you're pushing up, you're pushing up with broken legs. They didn't need to do that with Jesus because he was already dead by that point, and so none of his bones were broken. They stare and gloat over me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. They took the clothing of Jesus that they had stripped off of him, and each soldier in the company took a piece. But then there was the the undergarment, which was seamless. And they gambled for it. They cast lots to see who would get that piece. This is such a detailed description. And again, written a thousand years before Jesus was born. And yet, Jesus suffering in this agonizing way, what is he doing? He's praying. He's praying, verse 19. But you, O Lord, do not be far off. O you, my help. He's still calling on Father, the one who's forsaken him. My help. Come quickly to my aid. Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. Save me from the mouth of the lion. I'm going to read part of Matthew 27 for you if you want to turn there in your scripture. Matthew 27. Starting in verse 39, just so we can see how much what happened to Jesus fulfills what was Written of him. Matthew 27, 39, pick up says, those who passed by derided him. wagging their heads and saying, You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself, if you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. So also the chief priests With the scribes and the elders, I believe those are the bulls of Vashan, mocked him, saying, He saved others He cannot save himself. He is the king of Israel. Let him come down from the cross, and we will believe in him. He trusts in God. Let God deliver him now if he desires him. For he said, I am the Son of God. And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way. Now from the seventh from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabactani. That is My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And some of the bystanders hearing it, probably the Romans who didn't understand Aramaic, said, this man is calling Elijah. And one of them at once ran and took a sponge filled with sour wine and put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink. But others said, Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come and save him. He was mocked. He was ridiculed. He was poured out like wax. His heart melted within his chest. He was thirsty. And yet he prayed. We know from the Gospels three prayers that Jesus uttered from the cross. This first one from Psalm 22, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? But then he looks down at these Roman soldiers, this company of evildoers who have encircled him, who are gambling for his clothing, who have beaten him and mocked him. and ridiculed him, he looks down at them and he prays for them, saying, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And then his final prayer, Father, into your hands I commit my Spirit again never stopped trusting his Father. And here in Psalm 22, the prayers of Jesus end With his confident assertion that he has been heard. You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen. That last line of verse 21 is the is the transition point. It transitions us from the death of Jesus to his resurrection and to the glory of being saved from death. Last week we read in Psalm twenty-one about how the king had asked life of you and you gave it to him length of days forever and ever. His glory is great through your salvation. Psalm 21 verses four and five. Now we see this answer here. You have rescued me. From the horns of the wild oxen. And then the rest of the psalm, this third part, is all about now in victory. I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. Where did Jesus go after he rose again from the dead? He went to the upper room. Who was in the upper room? The congregation of his brothers. It's after the resurrection that Jesus calls the disciples his brothers. In Matthew 28 Jesus tells the women at the tomb, do not be afraid, go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee and there they will see me. And John twenty, verse seventeen, Jesus says to Mary Magdalene, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father. to my God and your God. Jesus called his followers first disciples and then friends and then finally brothers. And if you believe in him, you are a brother or sister of Jesus And he is here now in the midst of this congregation proclaiming to you the great salvation. Of the Lord. He is saying to you, you who fear the Lord, praise him Oh, you offspring of Jacob, glorify him and stand in awe of him, oh you offspring of Israel. We should stand in awe that God had given this precise description of the suffering of his son a thousand years before he was born. And then that Jesus, knowing that this is what he was in for, came into the world willing to lay down his life for us in identifying with us as our brother. And that God would rescue him from death, and in so doing rescue all of us from death who belong to him. That is reason to praise him. That is reason to stand in awe of him. For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, and he has not hidden his face from him, but has heard when he cried to him. Jesus was forsaken by God on the cross, but not forever. Once he was able to cry out, it is finished He was then able to say, Into your hands I commit my spirit. And his spirit was received by his father. Which is why he could say before he died to the thief on the cross, this day you will be with me in paradise. Because even while he was forsaken, he knew that God was going to bring him through into paradise that day. You're never abandoned by God. He has not despised the affliction of the afflicted. Whatever your affliction is, he has not despised you and your affliction. But he is with you and he is for you. He doesn't hide his face from you when you cry to him. He hears when you cry to him. And so our response to that should be praise. From you comes my praise in the great congregation, my vows I will perform before those who fear him, the afflicted. shall hear and be satisfied. Those who seek him shall praise the Lord. May your hearts live forever. Verse 27, all the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord. That's us. Sometimes we we think just naturally because we're human. We think about the world in an America-centric way. Oh, we're we're in the middle of the world and the rest of the world's out there, right? But if you actually look at a globe or a map and you look from Jerusalem where Jesus is being crucified and rising again, we are the ends of the earth. We're in an unknown land. It was completely unknown to the people who lived in that part of the world and would be for hundreds and hundreds of years. We are the ends of the earth. We are the generation not yet born. It will be told of the Lord to the coming generation. How many generations are we? 2,000 years later, the yet unborn. at the ends of the earth. And we've been told, we've been told, and here we are worshiping him, for kingship belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations. And because of him, we get to rejoice. We get to rejoice and we get to participate in continuing to tell the story, in continuing to spread the good news to the ends of the earth. to those who have not heard, even to those who have yet been born. We are the people of God who receive the blessing of Psalm 22. And as we do so, we have these assurances First, that he understands suffering in a deeper and more profound way than we could ever imagine. You know, it's good to hear encouragement from someone who's going through something similar to you, but if there's someone you know who's been through even worse, And you can objectively say, wow, that's even worse. And they're still praising the Lord, they're still trusting the Lord. That brings you even more encouragement. Well, no one went through anything worse than what Jesus went through. And he comes to us and he says, God understands you, God hears you, I am with you in your suffering. We can also know that he was forsaken by God so that we never would be. He was cut off so that we may be brought in. And that's why the temple in the curtain tore from top to bottom while he died, because he was cut off that we might be brought in He was forsaken that we might be adopted. He was condemned that we might be justified. He died that we might live. He became sin that we might become righteousness. That is more true than your feelings. Stand on it And finally, we have the assurance that he overcame all suffering and death in his joyous and victorious resurrection When Jesus rose again from the dead, he's been alive from the dead as the man, Christ Jesus, for nearly 2,000 years, and he has never suffered anything. He's never been hurt He's never been sick. He's never gotten tired. He's overcome. All suffering, all death, and all the effects of sin, and we will share in that resurrection. As we have come to share in his suffering, so we will come to share in his resurrection. We have that assurance. On our worst days, we can say, I am sharing in the sufferings of Christ, and I will share in his resurrection. And in this assurance, we're invited. The precious invitation. To the ends of the earth, to the coming generations. Tell them. Tell them what God has done. That they might come and rejoice, even as we by grace have come to rejoice. Let's pray. Father, there is no one like you. You are holy, enthroned on the praises of your people Lord Jesus, there is no suffering like the suffering you endured on the cross. There is no love like the love you demonstrated on the cross. Holy Spirit, there is no life like the life that you give us in Jesus our Savior. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, make us thankful worshipers and trusting followers. On our best days and on our worst, may we know that we are never forsaken by you. And that you Are with us, for us, and calling us to worship and spread the good news to the world that needs to hear it. In Jesus' name. Amen.