Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Day 3 of week 23 brings us to Luke 7. We're going to be in the first half of Luke 7 today, verses 1 to 17, and we're asking this question, which may seem a bit absurd. Does Jesus bless those who think highly of themselves? Does Jesus bless those who think highly of themselves? Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and for your word and for your Son. Write your word on our hearts today by your Holy Spirit and make us more like Jesus our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Luke seven. After he finished all his sayings in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum. Now a centurion had a servant who was sick and at the point of death, who was highly valued by him. When the centurion heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and heal his servant. And when they came to Jesus, they pleaded with him earnestly, saying, He is worthy to have you do this for him, for he loves our nation, and he is the one who built for us our synagogue. And Jesus went with them. When he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying to him, Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof Therefore I did not presume to come to you, but say the word and let my servant be healed, for I too am a man set under authority, with soldiers under me And I say to one, go, and he goes, and to another come, and he comes, and to my servant do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him And turning to the crowd that followed him, said, I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such faith. And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the servant well Soon afterward he went to a town called Nain, and his disciples and a great crowd went with him. As he drew near the gate of the town, behold a man who had died, was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a considerable crowd from the town was with her. And when the Lord saw her he had compassion on her, and said to her, Do not weep Then he came up and touched the beer, and the bearers stood still, and he said, Young man, I say to you, Arise and the dead man sat up and began to speak. And Jesus gave him to his mother. Fear seized them all, and they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has arisen among us. God has visited his people. And this report about him spread through the whole of Judea and the surrounding country. Now, our Focus question for today, does Jesus bless those who think highly of themselves seems absurd. It seems a little too obvious, doesn't it? Over and over again, the Bible warns us not to think too highly of ourselves and says how God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. James 4. 6 and 1 Peter 5. 5 both quote Proverbs 3. 34 as saying, God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. So God gives us this proverb three times in His Word. Beyond this three-time repeated proverb, the Bible tells us, blessed are the poor in spirit, Matthew 5. 3. For by the grace given to me I say to every one among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, Romans twelve three Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. Proverbs 16, 18. When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with the humble is wisdom. Proverbs 11. 2 So, does God bless those who think highly of themselves? No. It would seem like this principle is so plainly evident in Scripture as to be undeniable. But People continue to deny this basic Bible truth. Some 40 years ago, it was Robert Schuller who released a best-selling book entitled Self-Esteem, The New Reformation. The premise of that book was that the real good news of the gospel is that you are good. And that if you believe that you are good, you will have a good life. More recently, it was Joel Osteen's best-selling book, The Power of I Am. Here's how the publisher described that book. In the pages of this new book, best-selling author Joel Osteen shares a profound principle based on a simple truth. Whatever follows the words, I am, will always come looking for you. So when you go through the day saying, I am blessed, blessings pursue you. I am talented. Talent follows you. I am healthy. Health heads your way. I am strong. Strength tracks you down. That is utter nonsense, and has more in common with New Age mysticism than with biblical Christianity. Interestingly, in today's passage, the centurion makes an I am statement. I am not worthy. to have you come under my roof. He says I am not worthy. And Jesus responds by healing the centurion servant. Let's look at two other I am statements from Scripture to test Osteen's theory. In Jesus' parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector, the Pharisee makes the affirming I am statements. while the tax collector beats his breast and says, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Jesus said that the tax collector went home justified and not the Pharisee. And then Paul, the Apostle Paul, in 1 Timothy 1. 15 makes this I am statement. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost. So in these examples, the I am statements of those saved and blessed by God are: I am not worthy, I am a sinner, I am the foremost of sinners Those seem to be a little different from the suggested I am statements of Joel Osteen. And he's not alone in teaching that. The whole health and wealth and prosperity gospel circus out there teaches that nonsense. One lesson from today's reading can easily be summed up with this final Bible verses, two final Bible verses. First, Jesus in Matthew 23. 12 says, Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. And finally, James 4. 10 says, humble yourself before the Lord, and he will exalt you. Psalm 113 is our Psalm for today. Praise the Lord. Praise, O servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. From the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the Lord is to be praised. The Lord is high above all the nations, and his glory above the heavens. Who is like the Lord our God who is seated on high, who looks far down on the heavens and the earth? He raises the poor from the dust. and lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes, with the princes of his people. He gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the Lord. You know who can make great I am statements of the highest degree and never be wrong? The Lord. The Lord whose name is I Am. Jesus can say, I am the Alpha and the Omega. I am the bright and morning star. God can say, I am glorious, above the heavens, seated on high. We should be praising the name of the Lord. We should be blessing the name of the Lord. Let's pray. Oh Lord, you alone are worthy of all blessing, honor, glory. and power. We are not worthy. We are sinners. But you've been gracious to us. You lift us up. You lift up the poor. You lift up the needy. You make us sit with princes. Not because of what we are, but because of who you are. And how gracious you are to us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Pray that this was a blessing to you, and I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.