Turn with me please to Matthew twenty-eight. Matthew twenty-eight The final chapter of Matthew's Gospel is our scripture reading for today on this resurrection day. We see in this passage how the resurrection of Jesus and his commission of his disciples changes everything. In their lives and indeed in the history of the world. This is God's holy word. Now, after the Sabbath Toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake. For an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning. And his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, Do not be afraid. For I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He is not here, for he has risen just as he said. Come, see the place where he lay. Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead. And behold, he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him. See, I have told you. So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. And behold, Jesus met them and said, Greetings. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place. And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers and said, Tell people. His disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. So they took the money and did as they were directed, and this story has spread among the Jews to this day. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations Baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It is powerful, it is truth, it is living and active. We pray that your Holy Spirit would apply your word to our hearts that we might be comforted, strengthened, encouraged, corrected, discipled to follow Jesus better. Do your work among us that only you can do, Holy Spirit. Come and speak to each one of our hearts powerfully. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Some things matter more than others. It's just a common, obvious fact. There's some important things that happen, and there's some unimportant things that happen. What's less considered is how in our world, very often, the things that get the most attention are so often the least important things, really. Whereas the most important things often go almost completely unnoticed. Consider this. Every year in the United States, the single most watched event is the Super Bowl. Now, every four years, the audience for the American Super Bowl is dwarfed by the global audience for the World Cup. Get about 125 to 130 million people in America who watch the Super Bowl. That's a lot. But you get like one and a half billion people around the world who watch the World Cup. Now here's the truth. sports fans, I'm not trying to offend anybody, but the outcome of those games don't really matter that much. Very few people's lives are actually made materially better or worse based upon who wins or loses the Super Bowl or who wins or loses the World Cup. And yet all eyes are glued and millions of dollars are poured in. But in a remote corner of the world, 2,000 years ago, outside a relatively small, obscure city, an empty tomb early on a Sunday morning. An event witnessed by a handful of soldiers who were basically knocked out cold, and a couple of women. Is the single most important event that has ever happened in the history of the world. The resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth outside the city walls of Jerusalem 2,000 years ago indeed has changed everything. Millions upon millions of people have had their lives transformed, their hope renewed, their eternal destinies changed for the better because of that empty tomb. And listen, everybody, every single person has been and will be impacted eternally by that event. By that resurrection. Because in rising from the dead, Jesus proved to be who he said he was: the Son of God, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. First of all, you heard me say the resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth from the dead is by far the single most important event. in the history of the world. It's more important than Isaac Newton discovering gravity. It's more important than Christopher Columbus discovering the new world. It's more important, even, believe it or not, than the launch of the iPhone in 2007. But you may be sitting here thinking Why are you comparing the resurrection of Jesus to these other historical events? Because in your mind, you may have put the resurrection of Jesus in a different category, in a category of religious belief. You might say, well, religious beliefs are very important because they bring people comfort in life and they can give a sense of purpose and morality. But But they're kind of in a different category. They're very subjective. They really can't be proven. You either believe or you don't believe, it's all just a matter of faith. But you see, the Bible makes very clear claims that the resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth from the dead is not a religious belief. It is a historical event. And believing that it is a historical event is not a religious belief. It's the kind of thing that can be tested using standard criteria for evaluating historical claims. The physical evidence, the manuscript evidence. The multiple credible eyewitness accounts and a whole series of effects that would have been impossible had the event not occurred. Billy Graham said, there is more evidence that Jesus rose from the dead than there is that Julius Caesar ever lived, or that Alexander the Great died at the age of 33. When you have multiple eyewitness accounts that were written down within 25, 30 years of the event having taken place. And those eyewitnesses prove themselves to be credible under the threat of death. You have something that is tested by historical standards and has been proven to be true. Let me give you just three pieces of evidence very quickly. First of all, the tomb was empty And that's significant. The gospel writers all tell us exactly which tomb it is. It was the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, and it was an unused tomb cut out of rock. Very specific. In mythology or things that can't be proven, you just sort of say vaguely he was buried nearby. Because you don't want anyone doing like an investigation. But this is a fact that was known to the early audience of Matthew and the other gospel writers. And Joseph of Arimathea was a well-known guy. He was one of the wealthiest people in the Jerusalem area. He was a member of the Jewish Sanhedrin, the ruling council, and this is a verifiable fact that the tomb was empty, which is why the Jewish leadership had to pay off the guards to say the disciples came and stole the body. But you know the body was never found. And there was intense systematic persecution of those early eyewitnesses. And none of them ever cracked under the pressure and said, okay, okay, we stole the body. Here's where it's hidden. And that's the second piece of evidence. There are multiple eyewitnesses who claim to have seen Jesus alive after death, and they were not solo encounters. And they stood up under intense persecution. So first of all, they were not solo encounters. You know, I don't know what you believe about alien abduction stories. I tend to be skeptical myself. And one of the reasons why I tend to be skeptical of alien abduction stories is that they always happen when someone is alone. I was alone, in the dark, in a remote area, and this thing happened. The fact is, psychology will tell you that people, when they're alone, they can have hallucinations, they can have delusional episodes, they can see things that aren't really there. But not groups of people who are together all seeing and experiencing the same thing and then telling others about it. Jesus appeared to the eleven disciples on at least five occasions Twice in the upper room in Jerusalem, once by the shore of the Sea of Galilee, once on the mountain in Galilee where he gives the Great Commission, and once on the mountain where he ascended back into heaven. Those are the ones that we know of for sure, at least five separate appearances to a group of eleven disciples. What we read earlier in 1 Corinthians 15 tells us he also appeared to 500 believers at one time. And these eyewitnesses of the resurrection refused to recant their claims. Even under torture, even in the face of execution. They were told, deny that this Jesus rose from the dead. You're lying, or we'll kill you. And they all maintain their testimony. Liars and conspirators crumble easily under intense persecution. But eleven of the twelve apostles were executed for their testimony of the resurrection of Jesus, and not one of them denied it. And the twelfth, the Apostle John, ended his life in exile on the island of Patmos for his testimony. So they all were persecuted. They were all punished. Sometimes people have said, well, they made it up. Why would they make it up? What benefit did it bring them? Again, Christianity was illegal for 300 years. And all it got them in an earthly sense was harassment, persecution, imprisonment, and death They didn't make themselves wealthy or powerful by making this up. And yet they had such confidence. They had such confidence that death had been defeated that they did not fear death Only seeing the risen Christ could have done that for them. And the third fact is just the existence of Christianity throughout the Roman Empire by the end of the first century. Within decades of Jesus' life, we know that Christianity had spread throughout the Roman Empire. It had its own message of salvation, it had its own scriptures, it had a different day of worship on Sunday. To put it in context, Jesus was not, Jesus of Nazareth was not the only man in first century Israel who claimed to be the Messiah. There were others who claimed to be the Messiah, a number of them. Most of them were killed. Not one of the other claimants of Messiahship, not one. had followers who said they rose from the dead and who took that message of resurrection to the corners of the Roman Empire. Only Jesus That doesn't happen without the resurrection. The disciples were transformed from weak and cowardly men who denied and abandoned their Lord. to bold men who would openly preach in the temple, get imprisoned for doing so, be released, and then go right back into the temple preaching again. They would continue to preach until the corrupt authorities would put them to death for doing so. Each gospel writer gives us a little different perspective on the resurrection of Jesus. If you read all four of them, you're seeing different angles on the same event, and you see different things recorded by each one of the gospel writers. Matthew is interesting because he intentionally leaves out the appearance that Jesus had to the upper in the upper room to the disciples that happened later on that same resurrection day. as well as the one that happened a week later when Thomas was there. Those are recorded in John's Gospel and the first one in Luke's Gospel. He intentionally has us wait until a great commission is being given because he wants the focus to be there on that great commission, so that's what we're going to do. But we're told in Matthew that an angel from the Lord came down and rolled back the stone and sat upon it. This was a large, heavy stone. This is one of the evidences for the resurrection, like how in the world, if it was just two women who showed up at the tomb on that Sunday morning, how could they have overpowered a group of guards? And then if they even had overpowered a group of guards somehow, how in the world would they have rolled back the stone from the tomb? It's a huge, heavy stone meant to seal against robbers. It's meant to be a safeguard, so it cannot be easily moved. But the angel moved that tomb, moved that stone. It's important to know that the angel did not move the stone so that Jesus could get out of the tomb. He moved it so that the women could get into the tomb. You see, in his resurrection body, stones and locked doors were not an obstacle for Jesus. When he appeared later that day in the upper room to the disciples, the doors were locked for fear of the authorities, and he just appeared in their midst. But the stone was moved so that the women could see in, could see that the tomb was empty. The angel who came down and moved the stone terrified the guards. They fell down like dead men. They fainted, completely knocked out. We always think of angels as like cute little cherubs, you know, pudgy little babies with wings. That's how we're depicted or or or these beautiful women. But angels in the Bible are mighty warriors who are powerful. and terrifying to those who see them. They give a message of hope to the women. Do not be afraid. For I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He is not here, for he has risen as he said. Come, see the place where he lay. Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead. And behold, he is going before you to Galilee, and there you will see him. See, I have told you. The women arrived at the tomb early that morning at first light, but they were not expecting to see Jesus risen from the dead That's another interesting fact that all the gospel writers are clear on is that none of the disciples of Jesus actually expected him to rise from the dead. The women weren't looking for it, they were bringing with them burial spices. You don't bring burial spices to a place where you think someone's going to be resurrected. They were completely shocked, taken off guard. The disciples, the men who were left behind, and the women told them they didn't believe them. Luke tells us they thought they were insane. You've lost your minds. A lot of times modern-day skeptics will say, oh yes, of course, you know, the disciples and the early Christians, they believe that Jesus rose again from the dead. Well we're modern, we're sophisticated, we're scientific, we know that dead people don't rise Oh really? We're the first ones to know that. They knew that just as well as we do. In fact, most ancient people were much more familiar with death than we are. They knew that dead men don't rise I find what's fascinating is why were the guards there? Well Matthew tells us, if you look just a little bit before the beginning of 28, the very previous passage, it's a few verses before, we're told why the guards were even there. And it's because Jesus had actually told his disciples on at least three different occasions that he was going to rise from the dead. But the disciples didn't believe him, forgot all about it, didn't take it seriously, and yet the corrupt religious authorities remembered. Look at that passage. Look at verse 62 of verse chapter 27. This is right after the crucifixion and the burial of Jesus. The next day, that is after the day of preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered before Pilate and said, Sir, we remember well. How that imposter said, while he was still alive, after three days I will rise. Therefore order the tomb to be made secure until the third day lest his disciples go and steal him away and tell the people he has risen from the dead, and that last fraud would be worse than the first. Pilate said to them, You have a guard of soldiers, go make it as secure as you can. So they went and made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard. I said, sir, we remember how that imposter said. They remembered, but the disciples didn't remember. That is yet another little piece of evidence of the historical accuracy of these records, because if you make up a story about something Almost always you make yourself look good in the story. Like you sort of tell it in a way that, oh yeah, we we were the clever ones. We figured it out. But the the disciples are so dumb They're so thick-headed. They're so stubborn. It's like they wouldn't tell of that, tell on themselves in that way unless that was really what happened And so the stone is sealed, the guard is posted, and the women hear the message from the angel that is a complete surprise to them, and it's a message of hope, but it's also A little rebuke of their forgetfulness because he says, he is not here, for he has risen as he said. That message of the resurrection from that angel changed everything for these women. They had been slowly walking to the tomb. Brokenhearted, grieving, carrying burial spices, wanting just to tend to the body of their master. But when the angel told them the good news, they ran back with joy to take the good news to their friends. It changed everything instantly. Now they didn't get very far before they ran into Jesus. And Jesus says to them, Greetings. And they come up and they take hold of his feet and they worship him. And Jesus says to them, Do not be afraid. Same thing the angel said, do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. And there they will see me. How gracious Jesus is. The angel had faithfully delivered the message. And the women had promptly obeyed the message. In fact, I think these women are an example for all of us Christians when we gather For worship, because what we're doing here when we gather on Sunday morning is we're meeting with Jesus, our risen Lord. By faith, in the Spirit, we're meeting with Him as His people. And notice what the women do, they depart quickly with fear and great joy and they run. They have a holy fear, they have a great joy, and they run to obey. Boy, if our lives were only driven that way, we come here to meet with Jesus and we leave with a holy fear, with great joy, running to obey what he has told us to do. When they see Jesus, they worship him. They didn't worship the angel, they worshiped Jesus, because Jesus is God and the angel is not, and only God is to be worshipped and prayed to. And so they worship Jesus. But Jesus was gracious to them because I think he knew that if the women just went back and said we saw an angel, and the angel said he's risen and the tomb was empty, could have been easily dismissed. But then they saw Jesus. The disciples associated, they still dismissed it. But Jesus is so gracious. And in fact, we're not told this in Matthew's Gospel, but Matthew told Matthew tells us how Jesus says, I'm going to meet you in Galilee. Go, I'll see you there. But Jesus is so gracious that knowing the disciples aren't believing Still, even after seeing the empty tomb for themselves, they're still not believing, Jesus appears to them later that day in the upper room, and he breaks bread with them, and he eats with them to give them that proof. Again, these are not gullible men who were easy to believe. If anything, they were stubborn and skeptical. Well then the next time Matthew shows us Jesus, he is on a mountain in Galilee, where he told his disciples to meet him, and he's commissioning them. He's charging them with their mission. We jump down to verse 16. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them, and when they saw him, they worshipped him. But some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. It's the eleven disciples, because remember, Judas has fallen away and has actually killed himself. And he's not yet been replaced. Just like the women at the empty tomb, the disciples worship Jesus. And yet, I love Matthew's honesty. Some doubt it. He's gracious. He doesn't tell us which doubted, but some doubted. This was now at least the third time that Jesus has appeared to the disciples, and still some of them have their doubts What is happening here? Well, Jesus gives his disciples the Great Commission on this mountain in Galilee. The Great Commission changes everything in the lives of his disciples forever. Let's think about it for a few minutes. He gave this commission, first of all, to his disciples together. That's important. They were together. He gave it to them collectively, not necessarily to each one individually, although each one had a personal role to play in the carrying out the commission. See if we understand the Great Commissions given to the church. And we understand that the church is the body of Christ with different members who have different gifts, and we can see that all of us have a part to play together in carrying out the Great Commission. Some of us might be preachers and teachers, others might be nursery workers or Sunday school teachers, others might be helpers to set up and clean up. We all have a part to play In carrying out the Great Commission. And the Great Commission is simply this. There's only one command given in these verses, and that command is to make disciples. Make disciples. A disciple is one who follows Jesus. It's different than saying that someone is a Christian. You see, say I'm a Christian and I'm a disciple. Yes, they're related. You can't really be a disciple without being a Christian. But sadly, there are many people who call themselves Christians and who are not actually disciples. What does that mean? Well, Christian is an identity label. It's like a name tag you wear. It's like, hey, what are you? Well, I'm not Jewish. I'm not Muslim. I'm not an atheist. I live in America. I guess I'm a Christian. Sometimes it's as simple as that. It's like a sociological thing or a family thing or a tradition thing. I'm a Christian. What does that mean? Well, I believe in God. Kind of believe in Jesus. It's an identity. It's a label. A disciple is a Christ follower. Discipleship is a lifestyle. Actively following Jesus makes you a disciple and the heartbeat of the calling of the church is to make disciples who will then make disciples who will then make disciples. We are here today because there has been a 2,000-year heritage of the church keeping this commission and making disciples who made disciples, who made disciples, and who made disciples. Paul When he was awaiting execution, he wrote his last letter in 2 Timothy to his young disciple Timothy, and this is what he charged him with. It's kind of the Paul to Timothy equivalent of the Great Commission. What you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. So let me ask you, if you're here this morning and you would say, yes, I'm a Christian, are you a disciple? Are you actively following Jesus? If you are actively following Jesus, are you participating with his church in the commission to then make disciples? You see, being a Christian, okay, but then are you actively following? And if you are actively following, are you helping others actively follow him too? The basis for Jesus commissioning his disciples rests on the fact that he's been given all authority in heaven and on earth. This is true. Whether you believe it or not, it's true. Jesus is the King of all the kings, the Lord over all the lords He is the supreme ruler of heaven and earth. He sits at the right hand of God. He has the name which is above every name. That is who he is. What that means for us as disciples who are making disciples is that we are not building the kingdom of God. Maybe surprise to hear me say that. No, we are not building the kingdom of God. Jesus said to Peter chapters prior in Matthew I will build my church. Jesus has all authority. Jesus is building his church. Jesus is advancing his kingdom. We are called to be instruments in that work by making disciples. I think sometimes Christians take too much upon themselves and these grandiose ideas of How can we make this big, powerful, influential church that would just make a huge impact on the world? Well, that's not really what you're called to do. What you're called to do is make disciples And then help those disciples to make disciples. And let Jesus take care of the big picture, because he is actually the sovereign Lord who's in charge of it all. We have a small part to play. We're responsible for the part we have to play. But we are not the kingdom builders Jesus is. That takes a load off, but it also gives us perspective. We have an important part to play, but we're not in charge. And that's a good thing. Jesus commissions us to make disciples of all nations. which means every people group. The Greek word is ethne, and that's the word that we get our word ethnicity from. It's all peoples. Every distinct group of people in the world. To use the language of Revelation 5, it's every tribe, tongue, people, and nation on earth. That means a disciple of Jesus cannot be a racist or a nationalist or ethnocentric. We cannot just care about people who look like we do or speak the same language we do. We are to be kingdom-minded disciple makers. That means we are to be cross-cultural. And that should include both missionary work overseas and also inviting all peoples who live around us to come into our community, into our church fellowship That's the call, all peoples. And the third thing I want us to notice is that Jesus gives us two means for making disciples baptism, which sets someone apart and identifies them as a disciple of Jesus. And then teaching. And what are we supposed to teach? We're supposed to teach all that he commands. Not to pick and choose. Not to say, oh, let's pick the verses that look nice on a calendar or on a t-shirt and teach those. We have to teach the whole. And that means something. If it's Jesus' authority, if it's Jesus' kingdom, and if we are to teach all that He commands, well that means that the way we make disciples is simply Taking the Word of God and giving it to people, helping them understand it, and then helping them apply it to their lives. The Bible is the source book and the guide and the only standard for making disciples. It's not about some clever program of marketing or influencing. Let me train you all how to be social media influencers and we'll advance the kingdom of God that way. No. That is not the means that God uses. God uses his word, and we are to use his word. And these disciples took this seriously. They were absolutely transformed. Do you think they were up in that upper room, cowering in fear, with the doors locked, worried that they would be next? Peter had denied him. All of them had fled. Only John the youngest was still at the foot of the cross. And we know that that's actually because his family had a personal connection to the chief priest's family, so he was kind of protected. So, unless you think, well, John was the hero, hey, sort of had an end politically. They were all cowards. They all fled. Peter denied. And yet, when Jesus commissions them, and when the Holy Spirit comes and empowers them, they leave behind their homes, their families, their comforts. They gladly, joyfully, and eagerly spend themselves for the sake of the gospel and within one generation This group of men, they take the gospel as far east as the southeast coast of India, where the to where so-called doubting Thomas ended up. He went the farthest of anybody. to the southeast coast of India. As far west as Spain, as far south as Ethiopia. and to Rome itself from which the gospel spread to every corner of the Roman Empire within one generation. With no internet, no YouTube, no social media, walking and talking. They took the gospel. Now, in between the resurrection of Jesus and the Great Commission of Jesus, we see an interesting little scene of contrast. This deceitful and corrupt opposition to the gospel. In contrast to Jesus, who's been given all authority in heaven and on earth, we have the opposition of Jesus that gets their power from corruption. From bribery and conspiracy. They were told the truth. The soldiers came back and told them exactly what happened. An angel came down. We were knocked out When we came to the tomb was empty. But the leadership said, we'll pay you to lie. And we'll cover for you if you get called out for it. That's the way the opposition to Jesus works. It works by corruption, by deceit. People who say things about Jesus that are just not true. I'll give you a couple of modern examples of how this kind of thing still carries itself on. Islam teaches that Jesus was never crucified. That he was actually taken out of the world by God and replaced with Judas Isariot. Did you know this? And that Judas Iscariot was the one who was hung on the cross. It's a complete lie, it's a complete fabrication. A lot of modern atheists are now trying to say that Jesus never even existed. They really can't disprove, historically, evidentially, they cannot disprove the case for the resurrection. And so they just back it up and say, well, what if he never lived at all? Despite the fact that there's more evidence for the life of Jesus of Nazareth than almost any other figure from the ancient world. Why would they lie? Why would they oppose the resurrection of Jesus? Well, I think Tim Keller put it really well when he said this. If Jesus rose from the dead. then you have to accept all that he said. If he didn't rise from the dead, then why worry about any of what he said? The issue on which everything hangs is not whether or not you like his teaching, but whether or not he rose from the dead If he rose from the dead, he is Lord of all. We owe him our worship, and he is our salvation. If he didn't, he was a liar and an imposter, and we should pay no attention to him. But the testimony of millions and millions of people has been clear. He is Lord. The evidence is clear Clear, he rose from the dead. And so in closing, I'm just going to ask you: where do you stand with Jesus of Nazareth? Where do you stand? Do you know that he rose from the dead? Do you understand that this proves that everything he said about himself is true? If you know that, are you following him? And if you're following him, are you making disciples as part of his church? C. S. Lewis famously said The one thing Christianity cannot be is of moderate importance. If Jesus is who he said he is, then Christianity is of the supreme importance. If he's not, then it is of no importance whatsoever. The one thing it cannot be is of moderate importance. So if Jesus is Lord and he rose from the dead, are you following him? Is your life being transformed by him radically, the way that these women and these disciples were transformed? Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are awesome, holy, powerful, wonderful. Lord Jesus, you rose again from the dead. You defeated sin and death in your death and resurrection. We have eternal life. Believing in you. Not because of anything we've done, not because of anything we are, but because of who you are and what you've done for us. So Lord, may we worship you with our lives, may we follow you with all of our hearts. Transform us for your glory and build your kingdom using us as your instruments, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.