Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. We are moving from guilt through grace to gratitude in the pursuit of gospel comfort, using the words of this nearly 500-year-old Set of questions and answers about the Christian faith, written in Heidelberg, known as the Heidelberg Catechism. It's from 1563, but it tells us about the gospel And it tells us about gospel comfort, and so it is timeless in its application to the lives of believers. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the time that we can spend Thinking about your gospel, thinking about your word, thinking about the ways in which you bring us comfort, relief, strength, joy, hope, that is inextinguishable because it's grounded in Christ. We pray that you bless our time together this morning. As we look to you, we pray that you would answer us. And we pray this in Jesus' name Amen. So from give grace through sorry, from guilt through grace to gratitude, our catechism question for today is actually going to give us the keys to why that's the title of our series. This is Heidelberg Catechism number two. What do you need to know in order to live and die in the joy of this comfort? What comfort? Well, it's the comfort that we get from knowing that we belong to Christ. It's the comfort of the gospel. It's what we were focused on last week. I'll just refresh your memory. What is your only comfort in life and in death? That I am not my own, but belong body and soul, both in life and in death. to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ. He has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood and has set me free from all the power of the devil. He also preserves me in such a way that without the will of my Father in heaven, not a hair can fall from my head. Indeed, all things must work together for my salvation, therefore by his Holy Spirit He also assures me of eternal life and makes me heartily willing and ready from now on to live for him. So this is the comfort, knowing that I belong body and soul, both in life and in death, to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ. And so today we're asking the next question, logically, what do you need to know in order to live and die in this Comfort in the joy of this comfort. Three things. First, how great my sins and misery are. Second, how I am delivered from all my sins and misery. Third, how I am to be thankful to God. For such deliverance. These are the three things we must know in order to live and die in the joy of the gospel comfort. And if you look at them First, how great my sins and misery are, that's guilt. Second, how I am delivered. from all my sins and misery, and that is of course by grace, from guilt, through grace. Third, how I am to be thankful to God for such deliverance Gratitude. And so we move from guilt through grace to gratitude. You know, it's not that Zacharias or Sinus had Such a brilliant insight that he sort of made this up out of nowhere. This is the pattern of the gospel, and we can see it very clearly. in Scripture. One of the places we can see it in Scripture is actually where we are on Sunday mornings, and that is in the book of Romans. In Romans, after Paul gives his introduction in the first part of Romans 1, telling us that he's not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, where it's the power of God for salvation for all who believe. That's the thesis statement of Romans. He then moves into an extended section dealing with our guilt. The main point of Romans 1. 18-3. 20 is that no one is righteous, not even one. So we are all guilty before God. That's the first thing we need to know. And that's why Paul goes from the 18th uh verse of chapter 1 all the way through the middle of chapter 3. expounding on this and unpacking this and making sure that none of us think we can escape from the guilt that we have under the law. Then the longest section of Romans starts in 321 and goes to the end of chapter 11, and it's about the grace of the gospel. The main part here is that we are justified freely by his grace. That's the main thought. There's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus because we are justified freely by his grace. It is the grace of the gospel that brings us freedom from sin, justification before God. And then the last part of Romans is our response. And Romans 12 to 16, which begins, therefore, by the mercies of God, present your bodies as a living sacrifice That's a response of gratitude. It's by the mercies of God. In other words, in view of God's mercies, or because of God's mercies, present your bodies as a living sacrifice. Our obedience, our response to the gospel is one born by gratitude. So the whole sweep of Romans moves us from guilt to grace to gratitude. Let's look at one particular passage in another of Paul's letters that has this same movement. It's one of my favorite passages. If you know me well, you know that I've preached on this several times and love to. Ephesians 2, verses 1 to 10. And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh carrying out the desires of the flesh and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. That is guilt It's guilt that brings wrath. Because while we are dead in trespasses and sins, we were walking. The walking dead. We were walking. How were we walking? Following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, living in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the flesh and the mind. We were guilty And we were under condemnation. That's the bad news. And if we don't understand the bad news, the good news doesn't make any sense. You just walk up to somebody and say, Good news, Jesus died for your sins. And they say, Well what sins? I'm not A sinner? What are you. . You're calling me names? Back off. I'm a good person. Most people who don't know Christ think that if there's a heaven, they'll go there when they die because they're basically good people. And that's false. It's a lie. It's a lie that Satan uses to keep many people away from Christ. And so the first thing we need to know is we need to know about our guilt under the law. And then grace, grace comes in these two beautiful words at the beginning of verse 4, but God. But God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace, you have been saved. and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show. the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. It is the grace of God that brings us from death to life, raises us up with Christ, and makes us a trophy of his grace for the coming ages. By grace you've been saved through faith. That's how we are saved. And then finally, verse 10, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. We are not saved by our good works, but we are saved for good works. And what should motivate us to want to do good works is gratitude. Gratitude leads to good works. So from guilt through grace to gratitude and in gratitude living for the glory of God. That is the movement of the gospel, and that is how we get gospel comfort. So back to our question for the day. What do you need to know in order to live and die in the joy of this gospel comfort? First, how great my sins and misery are. Second, how I am to be delivered from all of my sins and misery. Third, how I am to be thankful to God for such deliverance. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, it is amazing that you would save us when we were guilty, when we were enemies, when we were sinners, that you would save us. Bring us to Christ. Bring us to life. Help us to live by grace in gratitude for you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, when I think about this second question of the Heidelberg Catechism, there's one hymn that comes to mind. It's a classic one for a reason. It's a great one. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me K House we're saying alright I'm leaving Those were thoughts, burn down and burn my sleep. Twas grace that taught my hurting and grace my peace really. How that great beyond. And wait, we will be allowed to be. The Lord has promised. His work my host is My shield and ocean me as long as alive into