Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We have come now to Luke 23. And we find Jesus on trial before Pilate and also before the mob. And we're asking the question, why are some people so threatened by Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your Son, our Savior. Lord Jesus, thank you. Thank you for standing trial and being condemned in our place because we deserve to be condemned. You were unjustly condemned so that we could be forgiven and freed? Holy Spirit, please write these words of today's passage on our hearts And help us to see and love and walk with Jesus more closely, we pray in his name. Amen. Luke 23, 1 to 25 Then the whole company of them arose and brought him before Pilate, and they began to accuse him, saying, We found this man misleading our nation and forbidding us to give tribute to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ a king. And Pilate asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? And he answered him, You have said so Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, I find no guilt in this man. But they were all urgent, saying, He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, from Galilee even to this place When Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Galilean, and when he learned that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him over to Herod, who was himself in Jerusalem at that time. When Herod saw Jesus he was very glad, for he had long desired to see him, because he had heard about him, and he was hoping to see some sign done by him, so he questioned him at some length, but he made no answer Then chief priests and scribes stood by vehemently accusing him, and Herod and his soldiers treated him with contempt and mocked him Then arraying him in splendid clothing he sent him back to Pilate, and Herod and Pilate became friends with each other that very day, for before this they had been at enity with each other. Pilate then called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, and said to them, You brought me this man as one who was misleading the people. And after examining him before you, behold, I do not find this man guilty of any of your charges against him. Neither did Herod, for he sent him back to us. Look, nothing deserving death has been done by him. I will therefore punish and release him. But they all cried out together Away with this man, and release to us Barabbas, a man who had been thrown into prison for an insurrection started in the city and for murder Pilate addressed them once more, desiring to release Jesus, but they kept shouting, Crucify! Crucify him! A third time he said to them, Why? What evil has he done? I found in him no guilt deserving death. I will therefore punish and release him. but they were urgent, demanding with loud cries that he should be crucified, and their voices prevailed. So Pilate decided that their demand should be granted He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, for whom they asked. But he delivered Jesus over to their will. So why are some people so threatened by Jesus? It's always been amazing to me to see what a polarizing person Jesus was during his time on earth Seems people either loved him or plotted to kill him. Of course, that's not really true. Herod and Pontius Pilate seemed disinterested in Jesus. They didn't really want to put him to death, but they also didn't want to follow him I I guess the real question that's puzzled me over the years is this why were some people so threatened by Jesus that they wanted him to die? As I've thought about it, I've realized that people are just as threatened by Jesus today, in fact is often the same kind of people who are threatened by Jesus, religious people, especially powerful religious leaders. Of course, people today don't openly oppose and challenge Jesus as much as the crowd did then. They're more subtle and nuanced. Instead of seeking to crucify Jesus, they seek to redefine him, to co-op him for their own agenda They they say away with this man just as passionately as people did two thousand years ago, only they say it with the forked tongue of a snake, instead of the demanding shouts of a crowd. So why are people so threatened by Jesus that they seek to crucify him or redefine him away? I think it's as simple and as despicable as this. Religious leaders are often peddling false gospels either false ways to gain access to God or false promises of blessing from God. And so when Jesus was here on earth and he openly challenged the false religious leaders of his day, they killed him. Today they distort, manipulate, or ignore his word to make him the spokesperson for their false religion. Here is one sobering fact, especially for those of us who fit the description of being a religious leader. It's almost always the religious leaders who do the most violence to Jesus. And the number one reason Scripture gives for religious leaders doing violence to Jesus is loving the praise of man more than the approval of God. This is a sober reality for any preacher who has ever hesitated to speak the truth because of what who might be offended Or who has played to the crowd a little too much during a sermon? The approval and acclaim of people is the same road that led religious leaders to crucify Jesus. Am I overreacting? Am I being overly dramatic? I don't think so. Two of the most blasphemous book titles I can think of that were popular several years ago in Christianity were were called The Power of I Am by Joel Osteen, in which Joel Osteen said, you just need to think positive thoughts about yourself and then say positive things. about yourself. And the other one, very blasphemous book title, was called In Trump We Trust by Ann Coulter. Remember that book from Trump's first campaign in 2016? In Trump We Trust? Osteen replaces the power of God with and the name of God with the power of us. When he says the power of I am, he means our statements. And then Ann Coulter replaces God with Donald Trump. These are attention-getting titles, but they're also straight blasphemy. And they're marketed by Christians and for Christians. People are still busy doing away with Jesus in the name of religion, including the religion of politics. May the Lord have mercy on us all, and may He keep us from betraying our Lord for self-motivated gain. Now let's turn our attention to Psalm 145. I will extol you, my God and King, and bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you and praise your name for ever and ever. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable One generation shall commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts. On the glorious splendor of your majesty, and on the wondrous works, your wondrous works I will meditate. They will speak of the might of your awesome deeds, and I will declare your greatness. They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness. and shall sing aloud of your righteousness. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made. All your works shall give thanks to you, O Lord, and all your saints shall bless you. They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power to make known to the children of man your mighty deeds and the glorious splendor of your kingdom. Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations. The Lord is faithful in all his words and kind in all his works. The Lord upholds all who are falling He raises up those who are bowed down. The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season. You open your hand, you satisfy the desire of every living thing. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works. The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and saves them. The Lord preserves all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord, and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever. What we see here in Psalm 145 is that the heart of God's people should be completely focused on God. on his kingdom, on his power, on his glory, on his goodness, on his steadfast love, on his grace and mercy, on his character. As soon as we start looking at people too much, trying to please people, trying to gauge the reaction, trying to work the crowd, we're going down a dark path. And that's the path that the religious leaders went down in Jesus' day. So let's pray O gracious Heavenly Father, fix our eyes on Jesus, our true and eternal King and on his eternal kingdom, on his reign, on his promises, on his coming again. Fix our hearts on your character. on your steadfast love and grace and mercy, on your power, your goodness. May we be delighted in your works And seek only your approval and not the praise of men. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was a blessing, perhaps a challenge to you. I know it's challenging to me. very often uh when I prepare and present these. So may the Lord continue to challenge us and comfort us with his gospel. Have a blessed day in the Lord.