Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our 812th day together in God's Word as we're walking day by day. chapter by chapter through the entirety of God's Word. 1,095 will be our grand total at the end of our journey together. I think that's right. But we are here at 812, which is Titus 3. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we're gathered together as your people. We want to hear from you. We need to hear from you. Your word is truth, and it reveals Christ to us. So teach us by your Holy Spirit. Call us to a more faithful walk with Jesus, we pray, in His name. Amen. Titus chapter 3. Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work. to speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show perfect courtesy toward all people. For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But when the goodness and loving-kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us. not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by His grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these things so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for people, but avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do with him, knowing that such a person is warped and sinful, he is self condemned When I send Artemis or Tychicus to you, do your best to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there. Do your best to speed Zenus the lawyer and Apollos on their way. See that they like nothing, and let our people learn to devote themselves to good works. so as to help cases of urgent need and not be unfruitful. All who are with me send greetings to you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all Boy, it is hard for me to read Titus 3, 1 to 11, and believe that this is in the Bible. Available in plain, ordinary English translation to modern American evangelical Christians on social media There I said it. Okay? Like read the Bible, people. Titus 3, 1 to 11 is a passage that shows us how the grace of God should transform us. how we should conduct ourselves within society, which includes social media, and our citizenship within human society and within the church. Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work. Now Titus was ministering on the island of Crete in the Roman Empire. Crete was a debauched society Under a pagan empire, Imperial Rome. And to them, to Titus there on Crete, a debauched culture, under a pagan Imperial government, he says, be submissive to rulers and authorities, be obedient, be ready for every good work. Speak evil of no one Avoid quarreling. Be gentle. Show perfect courtesy toward all people. Does this language call for badmouthing government authority? Does it call for bashing people you disagree with about politics or social issues, especially if they are unbelievers and they don't even know the truth of God It says we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. That's what we ourselves were like before. What? The goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, and he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy. by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. Listen, this is how it goes. Without Jesus, without the grace of God, without the renewal of the Holy Spirit, without a transformed heart and mind and life, all people by nature are foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to passions and pleasures, passing their days in malice and envy and hate That's the way the world works. It's the way the world worked on Crete and in the Roman Empire in the first century. It's the way the world works in America in the 21st century. But still the advice to Christians, actually the command, because these are imperatives, these are commands, the command to Christians is to be submissive. To rulers and authorities, to be obedient to those whom God has put into their positions of authority, and to be ready for every good work. Whatever good needs to be done, be ready to do it. Don't speak evil about anyone. Don't name call. Don't bash. Don't trash. Avoid quarreling. Avoid it. Don't provoke it. Don't stir it up. Avoid it. Be gentle and show perfect courtesy toward all people, knowing that had God not had mercy on you, you would be in the same position. You would think the same way, you would act the same way. You didn't somehow figure it out and make yourself oh so wise and oh so clever and oh so enlightened as to now you know better. God had mercy on you. The goodness and loving kindness of God, our Savior, saved us. Not because we're righteous people. It wasn't because of works done by us in righteousness, but it was because of his mercy. So show the mercy that you've received. Show the patience, the goodness, the loving kindness that God has shown you. We've been justified by grace, not by merit of our own. We've been washed by his mercy, not by our own righteousness. We don't, Christians should not act like self-righteous, arrogant know-it-alls. Christians should not be rude and name-calling. Christians should not be disobedient and disrespectful to governing authorities. We just shouldn't. And yes, I am guilty of it. I fall into it from time to time. It is the atmosphere of our culture and it's hard not to breathe it in. But we need to not breathe it in. We need to breathe in the grace of God and breathe out the grace of God. He says the saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these things so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote themselves to good works. So here I am. I'm insisting on these things. Christians, brothers and sisters in Christ, stop. The trashing of non-Christians calling them names. Stop bad-mouthing the governing authorities. Stop stirring up controversy. Stop hating other people. Show kindness. Show goodness. Show gentleness. Show perfect courtesy toward all people. Paul didn't say perfect courtesy toward Christians who agree with you on every point of theology. Uh-uh. Show perfect courtesy to all people. Because that's how God has been gracious to us and far beyond that. And then he says, avoid foolish controversies. genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. There are people online and people in real life who are just waiting to catch a brother or sister in Christ saying something that seems maybe a fraction of a degree off and then they're gonna pound all over and just jump on it and say, well why did you say that? What did you mean by that word? Well how is this word different from that word? And how's this definition different from that? Stop it In fact, Paul tells us, a person who stirs up division, you should just warn them once or twice and then have nothing more to do with them. Such a person's warped and sinful and self-condemned. If you or someone you know delights in division, especially self-righteous, arrogant division, I have it right and you have it wrong, I know the truth and you don't, this is the way. Just stop. And tell people to stop. We don't need to divide up the body of Christ, and we don't need to have an all-out assault on the world. We are called to be different than that. We are redeemed by grace to be different than that. That's what we are called to be So that's your sermon for today. Today, this passage makes me bold. It makes me want to be very direct and say this. We're not better than anybody. We don't deserve better than anybody. If we've been treated better than others, then that means we should treat others better than the standard that the world applies So if there's an arrogant, cocky, self-assured, condemning, snarky, name-calling, sarcastic, rude, insulting Christian figure in public, Who's doing these things? Don't follow them. Don't support them. Don't imitate them. Have nothing to do with them. Especially if you know that they've been warned by others to stop doing the things they're doing, just walk away. Just say, you know what? They're being very rude, very disrespectful. Very arrogant, very condescending. I can't do that. Jesus doesn't let me do that. And so let's walk away. And no, it's not wrong to call out behavior like that. The Apostle Paul is here calling out behavior like that. It's not wrong to say that is the kind of rude behavior that we don't need to have within the church because it's out of step with the gospel of grace. Out of step with the gospel of grace. Think about how good God has been to you. Think about where you would be if He had not had mercy on your soul. And let that color everything that comes out of your mouth toward other people. Humility, gratitude, grace. Because that's how we've been treated. Let's pray. Father, you're so good. You are gracious beyond our comprehension to us. You've been merciful to us with a mercy that is free and abundant. It's costly. It cost you the life of your son. We didn't deserve it. We were ignorant and selfish and foolish. Yet you've had mercy on us and you've been gracious to us because you love us, the loving kindness that you've poured out upon us. Help us to show it to others. Give us the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness. Goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control in our speech, in our conduct, in our demeanor, in our discourse Make us more like Jesus and less like the world. May our influence on social media, in conversations with our neighbors, and conversation in the church, in the workplace, may it be. Gracious, humble, respectful, gentle, kind This is this is what you call us to, and you're worth it. You and your name and your honor is worth it. That when people think of Christians and the way Christians talk and the way Christians conduct themselves, that they would think of people who are the most respectful, the most courteous, the most kind, the most patient. Make that true of your church, O Father, by the power of your Holy Spirit. Make it true a forest hill Presbyterian Church, all the churches that are faithful to you and that are desiring to honor you and each one of your people We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's Titus 3. It's a word that is timely. for our day and age. If any passage of the Bible is timely for our day and age, Titus 3 is, so I encourage you, read it again, pray through it. Put it up here, put it in here until it overflows into our lives. Have a blessed day in the Lord.