Good morning. First of all I'd like to thank uh Forest Hill Session. And members for welcoming me. It's been a real exciting privilege the last month or so to to study and prepare and uh Look forward greatly to joining you this morning. I want to thank my sweet wife Lisa who's here supporting me as she always does, my daughter Karis. Um our four boys on here two are away at college and one's with FCA on a volleyball trip to Ocean City. And another Matthias is with Pastor Jason this morning at the at the retreat. Let me read before I pray a passage this morning, which comes at the end of John chapter 6. I'm going to pick it up right around verse 58 or so and then read through the end. So John chapter 6, starting in verse 58. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, This is a hard saying. Who can listen to it? But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, Do you take offense at this? Sorry. Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some of you who do not believe, for Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. And he said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father. After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. So Jesus said to the twelve, Do you want to go away as well? Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of life And we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you, the twelve? And yet one of you is a devil. He spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going to betray him. Please pray with me. Lord God, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart and all our hearts Be pleasing to you this morning for you, Lord, are our rock and our redeemer. I pray this in the name of Jesus the Holy One. Amen. So the The Grateful Dead was a hippie folk rock band that toured extensively from the late 60s to the late 90s They may have been best known for the large contingent of people called deadheads. That followed the band from concert to concert. I certainly knew of the band, uh, never cared for their music, uh, never saw them in concert, but they were popular and influential for a time. You know, Jesus had large crowds that followed him too, and that would come out from the cities to meet him. You know, besides the many obvious differences between Jesus of Galilee and Grateful Dead frontman Jerry Garcia, they were very different leaders, and the reasons that people followed them as well as in how much these leaders prioritized popularity The earlier part of John 6, as well as prior two Gospels, and really the testimony of all the Gospels. Make it clear why people masked to be around Jesus. He fed thousands miraculously. He he healed the poor, he healed the noble. And he did many other works that testified that God the Father had sent him. No man had done things like that before, or to such an extent. Of course God had performed signs and wonders through his Old Testament prophets, you know, but for most of those prophets you could probably count the miracles that God performed through them on one hand, maybe two hands. But the written record of the miracles of the God man Jesus is long. Plus all the almost throwaway casual statements that are no less stunning, he healed them all. Like Matthew 1530. You know, to my knowledge, you know, which is not extensive in the case of Jerry Garcia and his folks. Now, the Grateful Dead did nothing intentional to jeopardize the size of their fallen. You know, even if they misdrummed or sang out of tune, and I'm certainly not one to judge there. I'm not sure anyone probably noticed. Certainly Jerry Garcia didn't pause in the middle of the song and say You over there, you're smoking dangerous stuff. You two are not married over there. Hands off each other But maintaining or increasing his own personal popularity was not Jesus' reason for interacting with people. He said he didn't come or act or speak to Gorpha himself. You know, sometimes his words would elicit, wow, no one has spoken like this man before. In other times, his words led to plots of murder against him. You know, one of my favorite passages in all of Scripture, and I'm not sure it should be. is the latter part of Luke 11, where Jesus is pronouncing woe against the Pharisees. Not gloating. That he's pronouncing judgment against these men because I deserve that same pronouncement of judgment. And it's only by his grace and mercy that You know, Jesus calls me a friend and a son, and best of all, his slave. And that's what that's what I want in my epitaph. Slave of Jesus. Nothing else. But the part that makes me laugh every time in that Luke 11 passage, why I enjoy it so much, is a lawyer who chimed a lawyer is a Not what we think of a lawyer, but uh uh an expert in the religious law. The lawyer chimes in. Teacher, when you say this, you know, when you pronounce judgment on the Pharisees, you insult us lawyers too. You know, bad move, lawyer dude. The fool at least would appear wise if he keeps his mouth shut. Well, Jesus proceeded to condemn the lawyers too Because they were weighing down people with heavy moral obligations, but didn't touch any of those obligations or regulations, even with the finger, Jesus said. The point about this passage is that Jesus told the truth about people's moral behavior, even when doing so made him a persona non grata, an unwelcome person. Unwelcome with many authorities. Unwelcome with many regular folks. You know, likewise in John chapter 6, Jesus told the truth about whom he was. You know what his mission was. The force of eternal life, even when many who were listening wanted different answers and wanted a different leader. And while sometimes Jesus spoke with what we might call direct clarity, his words in John 6 that precede, that come before today's passage are challenging. Where he called his flesh food to eat and his blood to drink. That's not really going to be the focus of what I get to here in a moment. But his words, all his words are scripture, and to understand those tough passages, we consult all of Scripture, especially the clearer ones, to enlighten us on the more difficult ones. Now, when the crowds began to grumble in verse 41 about Jesus saying his flesh was bread to eat, did he back off? Sorry, I got carried away, let me rephrase. No, Jesus doubled down, he might say, and added that his blood is true drink. Now notice in verse 59 that he was saying these things in the synagogue as he was teaching. He wasn't playing some sort of word game. He was teaching them. And he's teaching us. And we need to sit through the teacher's entire lecture. Maybe go back and read some of his earlier class notes. Of course, the key to understanding Jesus' statements about his flesh and blood come from his mouth again in verse 63. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and our life. They have a spiritual interpretation and application. So all that is the background to today's passage. I wanted to kind of set the stage for where we are at, where Jesus was at, as we come to the end of John 6 in a passage that we read. So this morning I'd like us to explore Three reasons. Three reasons we can find in this passage at the end of John 6 for why someone might not want to follow Jesus anymore. You know, why did many who follow Jesus for a time, who had a good understanding that he was a very different man? Unlike anyone they had ever heard before or met, I mean come on, he he healed. He raised people from the dead. Who saw that he was powerful and good, not a whiff of moral scandal about him. Nevertheless, they decided they had better options. You know, we even know or here are self-identified Christians today who seem to follow Jesus and then nope. If you're thinking this discussion is not relevant to you, that you as a true believer would never leave him, which I'm sure is the case. I will never leave him. I still want us to consider why we Christians sometimes lack the desire and don't make the effort to walk with Jesus closely. It's the same three reasons. Now, maybe we don't abandon our walk with Jesus altogether like some seem to do, unfortunately, but perhaps Monday mornings or Friday nights or other times during the week we follow different masters. We think and act in some circumstances as if there are better options than Jesus. But then hopefully we're going to see in this passage that the three reasons why someone might not want to follow Jesus are the very same three reasons we should want to follow Jesus. This applies to people who haven't claimed loyalty to Jesus, who need to begin to walk with Him today, because today is a day of salvation. And this applies to us who know, who trust, who love Jesus as Lord and Savior, who must be diligent To walk with him and not drift away, in the words of Hebrews 2. 1. How do I walk with Jesus between Sundays? So I find three uh turnoffs, for lack of a better word, in this passage, three reasons people avoid Jesus altogether or perhaps try him out for a while. And then walk away. Number one, the holiness of Jesus. Number two, the exclusiveness of Jesus And number three, our 24-7 need for Jesus. So I'll go through those again when we get to them. The holiness of Jesus, the exclusiveness of Jesus, and our 24-7 need for Jesus. Now, are these things they bothers to us or are they blessings? So, number one, as Peter says, as Peter acknowledges, Jesus, you are the Holy One of God. Jesus is the Holy One, the sinless one, the divine one, set apart and sent by the Father as a unique reconciliation of the lost to himself. Peter says in verse 69, we have believed and have come to know, we have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Now, isn't it interesting that Jesus did not arrive on earth at age 30 and go straight to the cross? He still would have been the innocent, sinless, sacrificial lamb. But how could we have come to know his holiness? He did not go straight to the cross. But as Hebrews 5 says, Jesus learned obedience and was made perfect. So that is, Jesus experienced temptations in all things, as Hebrews 4. 15 says, and he proved his obedience by remaining sinless and thought And word and deed during his entire 30 or so years on earth. And the Lord, please let me have an interval of 30 seconds free of sinful twinges. No, his disciples came to know. They witnessed his holiness. And Jesus being made perfect speaks to completion. Of what the Father had sent him to do. He wasn't imperfect. He finished the job, is what the verb means. He demonstrated obedience through sufferings. He died on the cross for our sins. He rose from the dead for our justification and became our eternal high priest. Jesus was absolutely and perfectly holy, set apart in purity and set apart in mission like no other. Completely in the world, completely not of the world like no other person. But holiness, you know that turns people off, right? I mean it shouldn't, but it does. You know, don't tell me I'm a sinner We sin, we like to sin. We do have some sins we revolt, and also some sins we protect. You know, our prideful flesh, my prideful flesh, doesn't like to be told or reminded that I'm sinful, that our personal preferences, they totally fail, they totally bomb. God's righteousness standards. You know, and that's kind of ironic, right? Because if we were completely convinced in the legitimacy of our sinful behavior, we'd be at peace with it, right? Yep. That's me, another glorious day is Mr. Arrogant, covetous, lustful thief, blasphemer. How are you doing? But as Romans 1 says, people do know the truth about their sin because God has made it evident to them But they suppress it, unrighteousness, and they hide it. Sure, did the people who heard Jesus speak about Eating his flesh and drinking his blood, understand he was referring to the need to accept his coming sacrificial death on the cross for their sins? Probably not. You know, we are we here, we have all of Scripture to help us out with that. But they had heard Jesus talk about sin. And that he had said that he himself had the authority from God to execute judgment on sinners You know, the saying, judge not lest you be judged, applies to unholy people, but not to the holy one of God. You know, just the chapter before in chapter five, Jesus said that every person will be resurrected from the tombs. I remember how that stunned me when I was like, Oh everybody's rising from the dead? Yeah, everybody's rising from the dead. Great. Well not so great. Some to life and some to judgment. And the Father had given him, the Son, the authority to execute judgment. Jesus had rebuked many of those hearing him for not really knowing what Scripture teaches, for not loving God, and for seeking glory for themselves from other people In short, Jesus was saying he was holy and they weren't. People don't like to hear that. Now it reminds me of uh Uh the moments just uh after the first giving of the Ten Commandments, where uh the people told Moses, You speak to us and we will listen, but don't let God speak to us, or we will die. They were afraid. But here's Jesus, the Holy One of God, Holy God Himself, come to earth, face to face, speaking to people and confronting them about their sinfulness. Yes, I'm sure that people whose ears God had not opened to hear and understand what Jesus meant by his flesh and blood, they had a hard time understanding his teaching on that matter. But Jesus' holiness put people off then, and it still does now. And his niceness is admirable. You know, feeding 5,000 plus is extraordinary. Walking on water is pretty cool. But his holiness and the holy standards of his word, those threaten us. And they challenge us to investigate our own deep sinfulness. How will we respond? Are we going to run to him and find out more? Or run away, turn away in pride? So, why should the holiness of Jesus draw us to him? Why should it draw us to him instead of turning us away? Well, if you don't know the Lord, You need to know that your sins are a chasm, a great gulf between you and God. One that is too deep and too wide for you to overcome. If your sins are unaddressed in this lifetime, they will be addressed at God's judgment throne. And results in your permanent and eternal separation from God. Now, separation is not like you'll be banned from the groovious party in heaven and have to go to a second rate party. Without as many streamers and disco balls. No, hell is conscious, bitter separation from all goodness, from all hope, from all meaning, for all eternity. So how do you know what your sins are? How do you know that you're unholy? And if there is any means to bridge that chasm? Well, the Bible testifies that The unbeliever is not totally oblivious to his sins, but you can gain better insight by reading Scripture for God's commandments. You can look at your life, how it stacks up against the holy life of Jesus, who obeyed all of God's commandments all the time. There are several warnings throughout scriptures specifically about what makes up what constitutes a sin. Uh for example, uh Revelation 22, 15 warns, all of those who are committed with out repentance I should say committed to sexual immorality, sorcery, murder, which includes hatred, idolatry, which is setting your heart and your ambitions and goals on the pleasures of this world Who love and practice lying, they will be kept out of heaven. So Jesus' holiness shows you, it shows me that we are not holy. But the Bible says that God the Father accepted the holiness of Jesus to be the innocent sacrifice. Who would die in your place? You know, all eternity in hell's prison would not be enough time or punishment for your account to be settled by God with God. So repent of your sins and confess Jesus as Lord. If you're a believer, why should Jesus' holiness draw you to him? Well, the holiness of Jesus is what can keep you walking close to him. Isn't his holy life inspiring? Don't you want to carry out his will? You know, don't you find joy when you respond to a temptation with holiness imitating Jesus? And don't you find heartache when you drift into unholiness? I'll answer that question. Yes. You know, just one day standing in the doorway of the presence of God is better than a thousand days as a royal courtesan in the palaces of the wicked. And Jesus' spirit is is with you. I mean, sometimes we might think, well, if he was standing here right next to me, of course they went astray. But his spirit is with you. His spirit is with me. And that's no less closeness. If we aren't stifling the spirit with our own selfish distractions and agendas, we'll walk close to Jesus. And 1 Peter 1 says, keeping our behavior holy as he is holy is what it takes for our minds to be ready for action. To shine all light before all men, and to love their brethren fervently. That's what we're supposed to be doing. We're supposed to be ready for action. We're supposed to shine our light before all men. We're supposed to love the brethren, brothers and sisters in Christ. And we do that when we are holy as he is holy. So, for those whom God has already saved, walking with Jesus in holiness is a path to a meaningful life where we are in action for what He has called us to be in action for. Number two, the exclusivity of Jesus turns people off. No claims of exclusivity turn people off, but especially those in Jesus. You know, that's not just a a characteristic of our postmodern culture where everything is supposedly relative and nothing is absolute except for the absolute statement that everything is relative. Now our pride reacts whenever anybody else claims to have authority in the matter. So where is Jesus' claim of exclusivity in this passage? I think we see it in several places. I'll just pick out two. Now Jesus says in verse 63 That the words he has spoken are spirit and life. You know, that covers all of existence. And in verse 68, Peter acknowledges that Jesus has the words of eternal life, and that that covers rubber. You know, Jesus uh I'm sorry, people wouldn't care so much, you know, if Jesus claimed to be the authority on on earthworms or toss salads. You know, Jesus is saying that his words and his words alone are the source of life. He has power over life and death in this realm and in eternity. And you have to come to Jesus for that life. What's worse, you might say, from from some perspectives, that life is not even something you can earn. But it's granted or given by the Father in divine cooperation with the Son and Spirit. So, sure, many people grumbled and stumbled, verse 61. And Jesus' difficult statement about his flesh and blood, but it's the claim of exclusivity that contributed to many people walking away. Look at how Jesus' claim is in verse 65 is met. He says, No one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father. That's immediately followed by in verse 66. After this Or as a result of this, the little Greek proposition there can be causative. As a result of this, after this, many of his disciples turned back, turned back, and no longer walked with him. Now, what kinds of exclusivity does Jesus have that turns people off? So briefly three Exclusive power, the exclusive path is the exclusive person Now Jesus has exclusive power. He had proven his power over sicknesses and evil spirits, over life and death and raising the dead, over wind and waves, water and wine, bread and fish. You know, no no one had groped about the free all-you-can-eat fillet fish sandwiches produced miraculously from a few nuggets and filling 19 baskets of leftovers on two occasions. No problem with that. But here's the problem. Jesus also claimed to have exclusive power over forgiving sins. And therefore exclusive power as a judge over a person's moral state of affairs and preferences, as well as their eternal destiny. A sinful man doesn't like to have someone else having power over their preferences. The way of Jesus is the exclusive path. Now, to walk with Jesus is the only right path through this life and into the next life. The way is narrow that leads to life. How narrow? It's two people wide. It's you walking side by side, not freely, but yoked to Jesus. Now, to some people, the preaching of the crucified Christ is a stumbling block on their path, to foolishness, to others on theirs. I was looking up some uh some quotes. What what does the world say about this? And it's all over the place, but one jumped out at me. You will recognize your own path when you come upon it. The best day of your life is the one is a second one. The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. Of course, that's usually followed by, therefore, buy our brand of deodorant. Well, the world's paths lead straight to the pit. Although you might smell nice on the way. Jesus is the exclusive person. Now everyone has the greatest person in their life. It might be an influential historical figure or modern-day celebrity or a sports star, but it's probably oneself. It's really a big turnoff for someone else to claim to be number one. Now Jesus didn't beat around the bushes when he said in Luke 14 that to come to him means To hate father, mother, wife, children, brothers, sisters, I'm quoting here, and one's own life. It's that last hateable person, oneself, that irritates the most. I can probably find occasions to obey Jesus regarding others on that hate list. But myself, move. Jesus requires that he be the exclusive person, the greatest person in your life whom you love so much that your your genuine great love for family and self pales in comparison And that's a really big turnoff because frankly, I deserve to be loved and not denied a single thing I want. Come to think of it, I should be everybody else's number one person. You know, what a deceitful and illogical message the world has, broadcasting to everyone that each of you is greater than everybody else. Now I guess that's the new math. People eat that up and drink that up. So why should Jesus' exclusivity actually draw us to him? Well, if you're an unbeliever, if you don't know Jesus, you know you might be in Solomon's shoes. He tested out all sorts of things to try to find meaning. Wine, women, men, songs, science, philosophy, knowledge, music, job, money. That's all good stuff But the wisest man ever born in the natural way found no satisfaction in these things. He tried them out. Read the book of Ecclesiastes. That book used to make me very angry. Very angry. Very convicting. Jesus is different. He is the exclusive way, superior to the material things the world falsely claims will satisfy you. He is the exclusive truth. Superior to the wisdom and philosophies of men. He is the exclusive life who holds the power over life and death He's the creator who infused scientific discovery into the fabric of the universe that he spoke into being out of nothingness. That's why you should look into Jesus. Because the unbeliever knows these other things do not satisfy. But for the believer, we can testify to Jesus' reliability, the reliability of his word. His path alone keeps us from fear, even when that path Winds through the valley of the shadow of death. Jesus has the exclusive power to calm storms and to keep you alive until he calls you home, at which time your spirit will go immediately to his presence. There's no person like Jesus. He alone has the power to forgive sins, to preserve life, to give purpose in life, to grant eternal life. But there is a bit of a catch. And that brings us to turn-off number three. The third turnoff, why somebody might not want to walk with Jesus or try not to walk away or not walk with him consistently is our 24-7 need for Jesus. And I see this in Peter's question. Lord, to whom shall we go? In other words, What else do we go to? Whom else do we go to? When else do we go to? You know, sure, our sinful flesh doesn't mind Jesus in small or occasional doses when he multiplies bread and fish and provides me with food and When he heals my diseases, brings me material things I need, when he calms the storm, I admit I need a guardian angel like that. Who checks in from time to time just at the right moments to pull me out of the fire. But 24-7, Jesus, that's a bit intrusive. You know how terrible it is that my flesh says at times, God give me some space. You know, maybe I don't say it so crassly But what about those times I just need some me time? Questionable TV show, a useless electronic diversion, a protected sin, avoiding a kindness to Elisa Leaves because I didn't really see it anything in it for me. Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal life. Now Peter seemed to be focused on eternal life, and for sure. No one comes to the Father except through Jesus. But the full counsel of Scripture surely puts the question to us, to whom shall we go for? Fill in the blank. You know, is our need for Jesus twenty-four-seven or only twenty-three-six? Or 12-3. Or is our need for Jesus? Apologizing in advance. 6-7. 6-7. Six hours a day, seven days a week, spending a quarter of each day following after Jesus, but three quarters drifting. Is there anything that we wouldn't go to Jesus for, the creator of everything? The one who ever lives to make intercession for us? Now, James 5 says to pray in sickness and in health, in good times, when you're cheerful, and in bad times, on account of sinfulness, sometimes even with others. 1 Thessalonians 5 says to pray without ceasing. And besides praying, we must obey Jesus' commandments because that's how we show we love Him. And His commandments are never off the clock. So this round the clock all of existence dependence on Jesus doesn't appeal to the unbeliever. He relishes the sense that he is his own authority, or so he thinks. But the Christian bristles at this too sometimes, because remaining in us Is sin which dwells in me, as Paul writes in Romans 7. Evil is present within me, the law of sin which is in my members. Our sin nature is always roaring to be heard. Don't I have a say? What about my wants and feelings? For the unbeliever, his or her unredeemed spirit is the loudest voice? And the words of Jesus and his holy life are an unwelcome intrusion into any part of the day or night. But the believer, too. Must stop stifling the spirit. You know, stop practicing a sin if we're caught up in something. Stop using active means of distraction or passive means to tune him out, not reading the Bible. You must let his voice Through his word and prayer, communion with believers, speak to us and train us Rebuke us and equip our consciences. 24-7. So why why should that 24-7 dependence on Jesus draw us to him? Well, because his yoke is easy and his burden is light Now in this life, Romans says you will always be somebody's slave. Always be somebody's slave. There's no way around it. You'll be a slave of sin or a slave of righteousness, a slave to your flesh or a slave to Christ. Many times unbelievers talk a good game about the supposed freedoms they find in seeking the things of this world. And learning to love yourself is the greatest love of all, as someone once sang. If you're an unbeliever, I'm sure you know in your heart that chasing after X, Y, and Z has produced destruction and regret. If you're a believer, you can probably testify as I can that when I try to squirm out of that yoke Or pull, or drift, or walk against Jesus onto my own path, to dabble with that same X, Y, and Z, pain and misery result. Our need for Jesus, our need to be like Jesus, our need to be liked to Jesus on his path is 24-7. Jesus in conclusion Jesus is asking each of us do you want to go away as well It's going to ask you tomorrow morning, Lord willing, do you want to go away this morning? May he ask me Friday night, do you want to go away Friday night? Do you want to walk away from me on Friday night? To the unbeliever and to the believer, Jesus is asking, Do you want to go away as well? May our answer be no. I want to walk with you on your path 24-7 until you call me home. Let us pray. Jesus, there is no one else to go to. For you are the Holy One of God. You have the words of eternal life. Carrying out the duties of this life, job and family, recreation and church, all the good things you have made Can only be done with joy and purpose and meaning in the path illuminated by the lamp of your word at your side. To live twenty-four seven is you, Lord Christ, to die at your call His gain. And I pray in your wonderful name. Amen.