So we turn our attention now to Romans chapter one, verses eighteen to thirty-two. Romans chapter one, verses eighteen to thirty-two Everyone's favorite topic today as we talk about the wrath of God. This is the Word of God. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him. But they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Therefore, God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because They exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason, God gave them up to dishonorable passions, for their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature. And the men likewise gave up natural relations with women, and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men, and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's righteous decree, that those who practice such things deserve to die. They not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you because you alone are God. And you alone have the words of eternal life. Speak to us today through this portion of your holy word. Prepare our hearts to receive it, that we might receive your truth, that we might believe it, that we might live according to it We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. You know, sometimes good news only makes sense and is received as good news in the context of the bad news. If you went away on vacation and you asked me to check in, because you were going to be gone for a couple of weeks, if you asked me to check in on things at your home, make sure everything was okay. You come back from vacation, and I just say to you, good news, your house didn't blow up while you were away on vacation. You might just say, ha ha, thanks, appreciate it, appreciate you looking out for it. But if I were to say to you Listen, Wednesday morning I went to your house and I couldn't get within 10 feet of the front door. The gas smell was so overwhelming. And I was afraid to even try to open the door or turn on a light switch because it was terrible. So I called BGE and they came out and they shut off the gas to your home But I wasn't really content with that. I wanted to make sure that we had an idea of where this gas with leak was coming from. So I got a guy, he came in, he searched for your house, we found exactly what the source of the gas leak was, he fixed it And then they turn back on the gas and everything's okay. Your house did not blow up while you were away. My guess is that your sense of relief And gratitude would be far greater in that second case, right? Wow, that's great. I'm so glad. Because you picture you almost lost everything. But you didn't. Because someone intervened. And what Paul is doing here is he's beginning to unfold for us the bad news that makes the good news necessary and makes the good news so very good. Last week we saw that Paul said he's not ashamed of the gospel. He proclaims the gospel because it's the power of God for salvation. Because in the gospel the very righteousness of God is revealed out of God's faithfulness to keep his promises and received into our faith, not works. Just as the scripture says, the righteous shall live by faith. Now that is good news. But it's even better news if you understand the danger that we're in because of the problem. of our sin. And so Paul begins to unpack this truth with another four Remember last week we were looking at verses 15, 16, and 17, and we were saying it's almost like a series of why and because's, right? I'm eager to preach the gospel to you who are in Rome. Why? Because I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Why? Because it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek Why or how is it the power of God? Because in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. Well we begin with another four, which means it's another because And the question here is, well, why do I need salvation? Why do I need saving? Because The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. How? How do people suppress the truth? Because what can be known about God is plain to them, because he has shown it to them. How? How has God shown it to them? Because his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived. Ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made, so they are without excuse. Okay, so they're without excuse. But Why is God so upset about it? Because, verse 21, although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him. But they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools. They exchanged the glory of the immortal God. for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. And right there in that paragraph, if you walk through it with that sense that Paul is unfolding an argument. He's He's anticipating objections. He's anticipating questions. And every time you get a for or because, it's an answer to an objection. It's an answer to what people might say. You get the problem we all face, and this is universal to all humanity, we all face the problem of the wrath of God Which is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. And the reason why we're guilty before God, the cause of it, is that all of us by nature We take the revelation of God that's available to every human being in creation, and we stuff it down We hold it down. It's an active suppression of the truth because we want to do wrong. And the truth is inconvenient when you want to do wrong. And instead of honoring God, we honor ourselves. Now we talk about the wrath of God. One of the things that people do in suppressing the truth about God is that we reimagine God in our own likeness. The French Enlightenment philosopher Voltaire famously said, God made man in his image, and ever since then man has been returning the favor Now Voltaire was a skeptic and an unbeliever, but he did point out something about human religion that is often true, and that is we make God into something we can get our heads around. It is something that we can understand. We make him more like us, right? The Greeks and the Romans did this in obvious ways. If you've studied ancient mythology and you've studied the gods of the Greeks and the Romans, they're just like Superheroes. But they're not even like admirable, noble superheroes. They're just like really powerful people who are sometimes decent and a lot of times jerks. And you wonder like why would anybody really want to honor these guys and girls, right? That's what it's like, because they've remade the gods, the divine, into their own image. And people do the same thing With God, with the God of the Bible. They think, oh, the wrath of God. Oh, I yeah. That means God is impatient, He's got a bad temper, he just loses it when he doesn't get his way. Right? That's the wrath of God. Why do we think that? Because that's how we are. Right? That's what our wrath is. So if we think, well that's what my wrath is, like you're gonna suffer my wrath because you cut me off in traffic, or you're gonna suffer my wrath 'cause you didn't do what I wanted you to do, or you're gonna I I'm just a bad having a bad day. I woke up on the wrong side of the bed, I haven't had my morning coffee yet, so don't bother talking to me, and we kind of picture God that way. But that's not it. That is not God. We have to remember that God is perfect. What God has shown us in creation about who He is is that He is divine in power and He is one who creates. He creates beauty. He creates order. He creates life. He is eternal. He is unlike us. God is holy. God is perfect in every way. And so all of his attributes are holy and perfect in every way. And so of God's wrath. God's wrath is perfect and uncompromised. It is it is his settled resolve. Out of his holiness and his justice to properly deal with and punish sin. We have the closest sense we get to this is when something in the world really outrages us in in a moral way. Like we're morally outraged by something terrible that someone has done in the world. It could be a serial killer. Could be a mass murderer like Adolf Hitler, could be something like that, something that's really disturbing, someone who hurts children, something like that. Human trafficking, slavery, that kind of thing. And our righteous indignation, our moral outrage wells up, and we have this sense that this must be dealt with. And we know that it wouldn't be right in those cases, right, for the person to be sort of brought before a judge and told Listen, what you did was really bad. You shouldn't have done it. But if you say you're sorry, it'll be okay. Like we have a sense that that is not adequate, that is in unjust, right? And so after World War Two, when Hitler was toppled from power, the people who were responsible for the Holocaust were put on trial at Nuremberg And you had these war crimes trials to say what you did was horrific. Well we were just following orders. Hey, you have enough of a conscience to know that the orders you were following were wrong, and so you're guilty. Like we have that sense Why do we have that sense? Because we live in the environment of God's revelation and we're made in God's image. God is even more holy and even more just, even more righteous. And so we God's wrath cannot be compromised. And when we try to minimize or compromise the holy justice of God by saying it's no big deal Sometimes people say stuff like, well God will just forgive, that's his job. When we're doing that, what we're actually trying to do is we're trying to ungod God. And it's impossible. It is as foolish and futile as a toddler who plays hide-and-seek like this. I'm gonna hide now. And because I close my eyes and cover my face and I can't see you, therefore you can't see me. We think, well, I I don't think it was that big a deal what I did. I figure God will just forgive me, no big deal. So we're doing this, and we think, well, that must mean God's going to let me off the hook. Sin is far more serious than that. Every sin we commit is in fact a grave offense Because it is committed against an infinitely holy God who is love and who has given us life and breath and everything we have. God gives us life. He gives us every good and perfect gift. He has never lied to us, he has never mistreated us, but we respond to him with ingratitude, with selfishness, with rebellion. That's what sin is. Picture the most spoiled, most ungrateful, little snot-nosed brat you've ever seen in your life. Okay? And they're just mouthing off to their parents, and they're just stomping their feet, demanding their way, and they're being really rude and disrespectful. And you see it in the store, you see it, and you're like, man, I'd like to teach that kid a lesson. Okay? Take that, multiply it by A million, and that's the reality of the way we treat God in our human nature. In our human nature, we don't thank him for any of his good gifts. We take credit for most of them ourselves. We complain when we don't get our way. We demand of things that are not being given to us that we think that we deserve. We are that way in and of ourselves. And thus the wrath of God is just and holy. Now Romans 1 tells us the wrath of God is being revealed against two categories of human behavior: ungodliness and unrighteousness. Ungodliness is our failure to worship God as He is, and it's our corruption of worship into idolatry. And that's what was unfolded in the paragraph I already walked through in 18 to 23. But then unrighteousness is on the human level its immorality, its intentional and habitual moral wrongdoing. And that's what Paul addresses in 24 to 32. The way you can think of it is ungodliness is in our vertical relationship with God. We don't honor him as God. We don't give thanks to him as he deserves. We don't worship him as he deserves, but instead we worship created things. So we are offending God. Unrighteousness is on the horizontal plane with our relationship with other people And we treat them that way. And what's really key here in understanding in Romans 1 is that ungodliness is the source of unrighteousness. It's because we refuse to honor God and give thanks to him. It's because we refuse to worship him as the one true God for who he is and who he's revealed himself to be. It's because of that. That he actually in judgment gives us over to unrighteousness. Paul's very, very clear about that order. The cause is suppressing the truth. in their unrighteousness. It's when we actively hold down the truth because we want to do what is wrong. To get a better understanding of this, one place we can go is back to the beginning. We can go back to where all this mess started. Kids, do you know what chapter in the Bible would tell us where all this mess started? Anybody? First book of the Bible, at least knows. Genesis 3, at least it's like, hold on, three. Yeah. Genesis 3. This is where all this mess started. So let's look at the beginning of Genesis 3 and we'll see how this works. Because this pattern, in many ways, we see in the first temptation the pattern for all temptations. And that first sin contains all sin. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made He said to the woman, Did God actually say, you shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So, when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths. Okay, so they have the truth of God and they have the lie from the devil, which is at first a challenge. Doubting, and then it's a direct contradiction of the truth of God. So they have these two things. What happens in between like receiving these two things, the truth of God and a lie? And their decision to actually go for the lie and suppress the truth. What happens? She looks at the tree. And she sees three things about that tree. First, it's desirable for food. That corresponds with the lust of the flesh. It can satisfy my appetite, my craving. Second, it's a delight to the eyes. That corresponds to the lust of the eyes. It is something that I would like to have. Possessiveness. And it's desirable to make one wise. That corresponds to the pride of life. I can be great, even as great as God That consideration is what then causes Adam and Eve to suppress the truth in unrighteousness and reach out and take from the tree and eat. And then what happens immediately after that? They immediately get twisted in their thinking about God. Remember, they used to have fellowship with God in the garden in the cool of the day. But now they make a covering for themselves and they hide themselves. From God. They're filled with shame, and in their shame over what they've done, they don't honor God. In in a very sort of basic way. See this? They're already remaking God in their own image because can you hide from God? Can you put on some fig leaves and find a bush to hide in and God won't find you? I mean this is the in the distortion of the thinking that comes in immediately. And then when God does say, Adam, where are you? Because God wants to draw Adam out of his hiding place. And he says, What have you done to Adam? You know what Adam does? This woman that you gave me Talk about ingratitude. Just a few lines earlier, it was this at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. And so from this at last to the woman you gave me You see, immediately. But why the sin? Because of unrighteousness, a desire to say, lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life, that's going to drive me, that's going to determine Truth and reality for me, so I'm going to suppress the truth and I'm going to exchange it for a lie, and then immediately afterwards, there's ungodliness and there's unrighteousness because he's attacking his wife That's what happens. That pattern is still there today. We're born now with the sinful nature that Adam and Eve got when they sinned. But we follow willingly in their footsteps. We want to do wrong because of the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, and so we suppress the truth that we know about God. And we choose ungodliness and unrighteousness instead. Well it's clear from Romans 1 For unbelievers, especially, and you have to keep this in mind when you're talking to an unbeliever, even someone who claims to be an atheist and says they don't believe in God. The problem with an unbeliever is not a lack of evidence. It's not an intellectual problem. It's a spiritual and a moral problem. They know there is a God. They know they're going to die. They know that eternity awaits them. They don't want to deal with that. Because they want to pursue ungodliness and unrighteousness. They don't want to deal with that, so they suppress the truth. They're holding it down. And this verb that Paul uses a very active Suppression, right? It's like when you're in a pool. Kids, you ever played this game? You're in a pool and there's like an inflatable beach ball and you're trying to get it under you and sit on top of it. Right? That's a fun game to play, right? But what what usually happens before too long? Up goes the ball and off you go, right? Well In a very much less humorous way, what unbelievers are doing is suppressing the truth about God so that they can be on top. And they don't have to deal with God, so push him down under the water. I can be on top. But death comes to all of us. And Hebrews says, it's appointed for man once to die, and then after that, judgment. The truth will not be suppressed. When the last breath is taken, it will surface and the consequences will be plain. But not only are the consequences plain in eternity, the consequences are actually plain in the here and now. Because what Paul says at the beginning in verse 18 is the wrath of God is revealed, or you could say, is being revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness. It's present tense, it's present Ongoing action. The wrath of God is being revealed. How? How do we see the wrath of God being revealed? Now Well, you can see it in the fact that people die and the fact that we live in a fallen creation and all those things. But actually, Paul points out three things. In verse 24, in verse 26, in verse 28, he points out three things, and that is a giving over. Notice verse 24 begins with the therefore. Right? They've done this great exchange. They now worship the creation instead of the creator. By the way, even people who say, I don't worship the creation. I'm not an idolater. I don't worship anybody. I'm not religious. I don't believe in God. Well then who do you trust? Who do you listen to? Who do you follow? Who are you devoted to? And the answer is usually myself I just I just follow my own instincts. I or or I I trust science, which is just a group of people Who've excluded God from the equation and are just investigating his creation as though he didn't create it. That's a little bit cynical. I love science, but science, atheistically done, is that, right? Science rightly done is let's investigate the handiwork of God and praise him for what we discover. But science atheistically done is said, let's pretend there's no creator, let's just look at this stuff around us and pretend like we're the final judge on what it is and what it's for. Anyway, even the person who's not religious, in the end they're worshiping themselves. And they are in fact a creature. And so they are still worshiping the creature instead of the creator. Worshiping the creation instead of the creator. That's a universal pattern whenever you reject God. People worship. We all worship. You don't stop worshiping just because you won't worship God. Something becomes a substitute. Right? When it became unacceptable to talk about God on the public airwaves of the news, what did they begin to say? Almost immediately. I mean we all grew up with it, so we think it's normal, but actually it wasn't really normal for a long, long time. What do they say when they talk about the weather? Mother Nature, Mother Nature's got a wild one in store for us today. Oh, really? So we won't worship God, but we'll worship Gaia. Or they'll just talk about, I love really good nature documentaries, and of course the best ones that are done are produced by the BBC. and and voiced by Richard Attenborough and they're just they're just fantastically wonderful, right? But they're they're showing the beauty and the wonder of creation, and then they'll do everything they can to not talk about God. Like and even saying absurd things um like this animal over millions of years evolved the ability to do this so that it could do this. Like really? So it was consciously thinking, I need to develop the ability to do this so that I can do this. Not any intelligence involved, but just What? The creature. Anyway, that's an aside. Back to the. What comes, this is important. What comes in verses 24 to 32, which has become sort of the notorious section of Romans 1. What comes in verses 24 to 32 is the consequence. It's the therefore, it's the for this reason. It's the sense. Look at that. 24, therefore, 26, for this reason, 28, since. They did not see fit to acknowledge God. What is being unfolded in these verses is the judgment of God. It is the wrath of God. And it's it's summed up in this word that's repeated three times. God gave them up. God gave them up. God gave them up. You see that? Verse 24. Therefore, God gave them up. Verse 26, for this reason, God gave them up. Verse 28, and since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up. This is one word in Greek, this verb give them up. It means to give someone over to, to release them to the power of, to surrender them People said, we don't want to worship you, God. We don't want to honor you, God. We don't want to give thanks to you, God. We're going to choose the creation instead. And God says, have it your way. And it's a reminder to me of one of my favorite quotes from C. S. Lewis. C. S. Lewis says, in the end, there will only be two kinds of people. Those who have said to God, have thine own way. And those to whom God has said, have thine own way. The giving up is the judgment of God. Therefore, God gave them up first in the lusts of their hearts to impurity. Second, to dishonorable passions. Third, to a debased mind. There's an order here, there's a progression here. First, get them up in the lust of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves. Because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worshipped and served the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. So you think about this. Adam and Eve chose We're going to serve our own appetites instead of serving God. Now, eating fruit is a natural appetite, but even natural appetites Are cruel masters. And that's really what the first one is. It's the lusts of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves. This is sort of We could say garden variety is sexual immorality. I'm going to live for lust. I'm going to live for self-pleasure. And you're given up to that because I'm not going to have the truth of God. Instead, I'm going to serve the creation. Second is dishonorable passions. These are passions that are contrary to nature. Notice, for the women exchange natural relations for those that are contrary to nature. The men gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. These are things that are contrary to nature. They go against God's creational design. And then the third one is a debased mind. And this breaks forth into what Paul says, verse 29, all manner of unrighteousness. And then he lists them for us. A debase mind is open now to all manner of unrighteousness. Evil, covetousness, malice. Envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness, gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents. Foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Now be honest. Be honest here. You might look at that list and you might say Well, some of those aren't as bad as others. I mean, gossip Putting that in the same list with maliciousness, saying it's heartless and ruthless. Slander? Really? That's just words. Disobedient to parents? Come on, that's a little bit. This is what God has in mind when he says all manner of unrighteousness. It's the full spectrum of human sin against each other. And it really is summarized in verse 31. Foolish. Foolish meaning not wise. Not living according to God's pattern, but living according to our pattern. Foolish, right? And then three things are lacking: lacking in faith. Lacking in heart and lacking in Ruth. What in the world does that mean? It means you have no sense of restraint or rightness of saying, I probably shouldn't do this because it's just like, don't care Go ahead and do it. So what do we get from this? One of the things we get from this is something that I remember when I was younger. Back in the previous century, children. Way back in the 1900s, as one of my kids used to teasingly say to me. When I first heard teaching about Romans 1, I heard it like this. Romans 1 is a perfect portrait of modern American society And because Romans 1 is a perfect portrait of modern American society, that tells us that God is going to judge America for its wickedness. Now, there's only two things that are wrong with that. One is that Paul was actually writing this as a portrait of Roman society. But really what he's saying is that's actually a portrait of all human societies, because he uses the words all ungodliness and all unrighteousness of men. So this is a universal picture. This is not a particular portrait of American society. Now the shoe does fit, but that's because we're human and we live in a human society. The second thing that's wrong with it is to say, because this describes America, God is going to judge America. No, no, no. Because this describes human society, human society, including America, is already receiving God's judgment We are already under the judgment of God. These things are judgment. They're not necessarily cause for judgment. They are that too, but they are judgment. So that's why if someone were to ask me, and I I've had a lot of people look at me like I'm a crazy person, because they'll ask me, Pastor, do you think God's going to judge America? And I'll say, I'm confident that he already is. And they think I'm making some sort of political statement. That's the farthest thing from what I'm saying. I'm making a Romans 1 evaluation of the reality of the world in which we live. God is revealing, he's actively revealing his wrath against all the unrighteousness and ungodliness, ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. It's true for everything on the list. The last step of this, verse thirty-two, is very Strong. Though they know God's righteous decree, that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them. And that's, again, that's true of everything on the list, all of it. They not only so Romans 1 tells us two things about people, about unbelievers. One is they know there is a God, and two is they know that the things they're doing are wrong And they shouldn't be doing them. And sometimes that's why they yell so loudly about their right to do them, because generally when people know that they're wrong and you try to correct them, they get angry. You do it too. When you know you're wrong, when you know you're doing something you shouldn't be doing, and someone is correcting you in the heat of that moment, you get angry about it You get more angry about it the more you know that they're actually right in what they're confronting you about. Now later you might come to realize, okay, you're absolutely right. That was completely inappropriate. I shouldn't have done that But in the moment when you're wanting to have that thing that you know is wrong, you get angry if someone confronts you about it. Or maybe that's just me. But I'm pretty sure it's not. The world does this. I mean, you can see it with the LGBT movement and their demands. It's not only we give approval to those who practice it, but we demand that everyone give approval to those who practice it. And in fact, we're going to attack those who refuse to give their approval to those who practice it. But that's not only true of that, it's also true of everything else. You criticize a celebrity or a politician for being haughty, insolent, boastful? Oh man. Who are you to judge? The Bible says judge not. How dare you call that person arrogant? Right? Or you Criticized because children are being disobedient to their parents, or a musician is promoting, actively promoting the hatred of God or violence, and you're like, that's evil. They're actively promoting evil. Oh, come on, you're just such a snob. You're just such a, you don't understand. The world will get mad at you when you say that. So that's a sign that we are actually actively under the judgment of God. And here's what I want to say to us who are gathered here respectfully on a Sunday morning. It is said it is very easy for religious people to look at our society and see the rampant immorality Especially the sexual perversion and to be disgusted by it all is not hard. It's easy to say, man Our culture is depraved and to be disgusted by it. But here's what we can miss, and what Romans 1 is telling us. This is all people, as I said already. That's first. The second thing is ungodliness is the root cause of unrighteousness People denying God the honor and gratitude that he deserves is the real problem, and moral corruption comes as a result of God judging people by turning their for turning their backs on him. And look at verse twenty-one. Everybody look at verse twenty-one with me. For although they knew God They did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened So here's a question for us. We know God. How well do we honor Him as God in our daily lives? How often do we deeply and sincerely thank him for every good and perfect gift that he pours out into our lives countless times every day? Or how often do we deny God the honor that's due to him, deny God the gratitude that's due to him, and we think foolishly and feudally like the rest of the world because we want what we want? We need to let Romans 1 convict us of our patterns of sinful thoughts and actions. instead of just showing us what is already plain, and that is that the world is under the judgment of God. We need to let it hit home here. Because when we do that, we can then thank God. That those same tendencies are in us, but they don't control us. And we haven't been given over to them because God is gracious to us. And we can thank him for that. Praise God that your life is not a spiraling out-of-control. Cesspool of unrighteousness. Why isn't it? Because God has been gracious to you. Because the same root desire lives in your heart and mind. But God has said, I'm going to be gracious to you. I'm not going to give you up. I'm not going to give you up. I'm going to hold you fast. I'm going to hold you fast. In 2019, there were two well-known pastors and one local lesser-known pastor. And all three of them fell away from the Lord, disgraced themselves, and lost their place of ministry. The one local guy is someone who had preached from this pulpit at my invitation multiple times. But he was found to be having an affair. He was then found to be a serial adulterer. He was called to repent, and he said, no, I'm not going to repent. In fact, I'm going to leave my wife and kids, and I'm going to go move in with my mistress. Another was a pastor in Scotland, who had written articles for table talk, who had spoken at reform conferences. And it had been discovered. He was pastoring two different churches on the same small Scottish island, and it was discovered that he was carrying on affairs with a woman in each of those two churches. And that his wife was going to go to Presbytery and report him because she had discovered it. And he committed suicide. And the other, the third, is probably the best known of all of them, and in a very public way that you probably know about, he left his wife and then left Christianity. He was a best-selling author. He was a conference speaker. I had read his books. I was heartbroken and I was devastated by all of these, but my prayer through that Through those things was, Lord, don't let me go. There was one evening I was sitting on the side of my bed crying about this second pastor in particular. And Beth came in. She said Are you okay? And I said, I'm scared. She said, You're scared. I said, if this could happen to him, I'm no better than him. I need the Lord to hold me. I need the Lord to keep me. And by His grace, He has kept me. And we need to all see that. We need to see not only Romans 1, wow, that's America, and America's under the judgment of God. But Romans 1, if God lets me go, that'll be me. Lord, don't let me go. And the promise of the gospel. The promise of the gospel. Is that if we're trusting in him and we're calling upon him and we're not trusting in ourselves, he will not let us go. He will hold us fast. He will keep us to the end. And in the power of Christ, we are saved and we stand until he comes again. The other application that I want to mention just briefly is that when we do look at the culture through the lens of Romans 1, it actually gives us an approach for how to get to the heart of the problem. The heart of the problem in the world is not a moral one. It certainly is not a political one. It is a spiritual one. People need the Lord. They need Jesus. They don't need a political campaign. They don't need even moral condemnation. They need the Lord. The problem that unbelievers have is not primarily an intellectual one. It's not even primarily a moral one. It is a spiritual one. Most people know there's a God. Who made the world and who made them, despite whatever they say. And most people, they have a conscience. Paul's going to unpack this in Romans 2. They have a conscience. They know that what they're doing is wrong. So when we speak to them, we have to speak gospel and we have to appeal to their conscience about the Lord. So that's my prayer is that we will see this and it will humble us and make us ever more grateful for God's saving and keeping grace, but that it will also course-correct our outreach to the world. So it's not about intellectual debates. It's not about political campaigns. It's about sharing the gospel with people, knowing that they know there's a God, knowing that they know they're sinners. And beginning there and talking to them about their need for Christ. Because that's what we need to keep us, and that's who the world needs to hear from us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It's perfect. It helps us understand ourselves. It helps us understand the world we live in. It helps us understand our identity and our calling and our purpose. So we thank you for it. We pray, Lord God, that you would strengthen our faith in Christ, deepen our dependency on Christ. And also strengthen the boldness of our outreach for Christ to a lost world that is dying. In its ungodliness and its unrighteousness, that is under your judgment and that needs Jesus. May we be the ones used by you to bring Jesus to the world We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.