Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to Exploring Romans, a chapter-by-chapter devotional exposition of the greatest letter ever written. These devotionals were originally presented as part of walking with Jesus through the Bible, which was a three-year journey through the whole Word of God that we did as a church from 2022 to 2024. And now exploring Romans. Romans chapter 2 is our text today, which emphasizes how everyone in the world has knowledge of the law of God. either given to them in Scripture or written on their consciences. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We pray that you would speak to us through your word and write your word on our hearts today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Romans chapter 2. Therefore, you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges, for in passing judgment on another, you condemn yourself Because you, the judge, practice the very same things. We know that the judgment of God falls rightly on those who practice such things. Do you suppose, O man, you who judge those who practice such things and yet do them yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and impenitent heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his works, to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life But for those who are self-seeking and who do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek. But glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek, for God shows no partiality. For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but doers of the law will be justified For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts Accuse or even excuse them on that day when according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. But if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in God and know his will and approve what is excellent because you are instructed in the law, from the law, If you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of children, having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth You then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing, do you steal? You who say one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples You who boast in the law, dishonor God by breaking the law, for as it is written, the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law. But if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code and circumcision but break the law. For one is a Jew, for no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical, but a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit. Not by the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God. That's Romans chapter two. Now Romans two is one of the most challenging chapters in the Bible for us to understand rightly, and we have to understand it within the flow. of Romans, and that is that Romans 2 comes after Chapter 1 and before Chapter 3. Isn't that profound? But it's true. Romans chapter 2 follows logically directly after what comes in chapter 1, and then it is the setup for what is going to come to culmination in chapter 3. And so we cannot read these things of the Bible in isolation because if you just came to Romans 2 all by itself. You might think, from what we just read, that the gospel is really about doing good and keeping the law, and that those who do good and keep the law will go to heaven and be justified before God. And the answer to that, of course, is that that's true. But that's not the gospel. That's the law. See, what Paul is continuing to unfold here is the law. He hasn't gotten to the gospel yet He's still unfolding in context what it means that the wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. So why is it that God's wrath is being revealed? Why is it that we need the gospel? In other words, all of chapter 2 of Romans is really continuing to unfold our need for the gospel, which is found in the law of God. The end of chapter one, Paul was primarily focusing his attention on Gentiles, on pagans, right? Pagans who don't know God, who are idol worshippers, and who are involved in blatant sexual immorality, either homosexuality or other sexual immorality, and then all manner of wickedness. Well, who's going to stand on the sidelines with their arms crossed and say, Mm-hmm, see, God's gonna get you. God's gonna get you. Who's gonna do that? But the self righteous religious people Self-righteous religious people are so good at doing that, right? Looking down at the world. Oh the prostitutes, oh the tax collectors, oh the homosexuals, oh the violent murderers, oh the criminal types. All of those despicable people, not us good people, not us respectable people, not us church-going Bible-believing people. Those people. There God's gonna get you. Right? And Paul says, whoa, slow your roll, Joe. You have to realize that what the law says, it says about what you do too. You judge other people, you pass judgment and condemn other people, but guess what? You do the same thing That's what he says. You do the same thing. Yes, you religiously self-righteous person, you do the same thing Do you suppose that you who judge those who practice such things and do them yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? What he's going to get to in chapter 3 is that there is in fact no one who is righteous, not even one. No one seeks for God. No one does what is good. Even if we have the written law of God, even if we know the Ten Commandments, we've memorized the Ten Commandments, we've taught the Ten Commandments, we say yes, Amen, and hallelujah to the Twelve Commandments. The truth of the matter is that we break the Ten Commandments in our thoughts, in our words, and our deeds, by what we do that is wrong, by what we left undone that is good, all the time. And so God's law condemns us. God renders to each one according to his works. Verse 6 says, if you were to keep the law, if you were to be a doer of the law. then you would be justified. Verse 13. It is not hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. Our problem is that in and of ourselves we are not doers of the law. So we're going to need someone else who has done the law for us and then taken our punishment upon himself. That's going to be chapter three, which we'll get to in a few days. But here what we see very clearly is that God judges everyone. according to their works and also according to their knowledge of the law of God. Verse 12 All who sinned without the law will perish without the law, and all who sinned under the law will be judged by the law. And then verse 14 he says, When Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do what the law requires They are a law unto themselves. Even though they do not have the law, they show the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness. and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them on that day when according to my gospel God judges the secrets of men. by Jesus Christ. This par paragraph right here, verses 12 to 16, gives us insight into how God judges on Judgment Day. And that is he judges according to the standard of law that each person had. Some people have the written law of God. Some people have the law of God written on their hearts, and their conscience bears witness So God's either given you the written law of God in Scripture, or He's written it on your conscience and heart, which actually everybody has because we're made in God's image, and there is a universal moral law. So no one's going to be judged unfairly. Rather, God renders to each one according to his works. But on the basis of works, as we'll see in chapter 3, No flesh will be justified. But what he's saying here is he's clarifying that there's no pass just because you're circumcised, or we could say just because you're baptized. Just because you're identified with God's people and because you have the Scripture does not mean that you're going to get a pass on Judgment Day. You're going to be judged by what you have done unless And we'll have the good news of the unless that's coming in chapter three. So this helps answer a lot of questions like what what about people who have never heard of Jesus? Are they going to go to hell because they rejected Jesus? The answer to that question is no. People who have never heard of Jesus are not going to go to hell because they've rejected Jesus, but they will be condemned on the basis of what they knew was right and they failed to do. on the basis of what they knew was wrong, and they did it anyway. That's what Romans chapter 2 says. God judges everyone on the basis of the knowledge of the law they have and on their works. So there's no unfairness in God. And it's not enough to just believe in the Ten Commandments and read your Bible and go to church and have a deeper knowledge of the law. Because if you're not doing the law, if you are calling yourself a guide to the blind, but you're walking in darkness, if you're calling yourself God's person, but you're living out evil, well then you still have sin that needs to be forgiven. And you still have a lack of righteousness that needs to be solved. So it's never enough to just be outwardly numbered among the people of God. We must be innerly changed. by the Spirit, not by the letter. We're going to stop there and we'll pick this up with Romans chapter 3, which we'll get to in three more days. Uh next two days we're going to be back in Exodus, and then in three days' time we'll come back for Romans chapter three. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the truth of your word. Thank you for the the accuracy and clarity of your law that does show us what your righteous requirements are. We fall short of them. We fall short of them every day. But they are still your righteous requirements. They're still good. It's right to love the Lord our God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. It's li right to love our neighbor as ourselves. It's right not to commit adultery, not to steal, not to murder, not to bear false witness, not to be idolaters, not to be blasphemers. That's right. That's the right thing for us to do. Help us to see your law as a mirror which shows us our sin and then drives us to our Savior on our knees. looking for redemption that's found only in him. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you so much for joining us today on Exploring Romans. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. If you have any questions or feedback, you can email me. My email address is pastor at foresthillpca. org. That's pastor at foresthillpca. org. If you want to learn more about our church, you can just jump on our website. Website Forest Hill Pca dot organize