And Isaiah, and this is concluding this first part of Isaiah. Isaiah really does divide itself into two parts, one to thirty-nine and then forty uh to sixty-six, and this is the end of that first half and the end of the preparing us for the beginning of the second half. Okay, Isaiah 38 and 39. This is the Word of God. In those days Hezekiah became sick and was at the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos, came to him and said to him, Thus says the Lord. Set your house in order, for you shall die. You shall not recover. Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the Lord and said, Please, O Lord, remember how I have walked before you in faithfulness and with a whole heart, and have done what is good in your sight. And Hezekiah wept bitterly. Then the word of the Lord came to Isaiah, go And say to Hezekiah, Thus says the Lord, the God of David, your father, I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears. Behold, I will add fifteen years to your life. I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria and will defend this city. This shall be the sign to you from the Lord, that the Lord will do this thing that He has promised. Behold, I will make the shadow cast by the declining sun on the dial of Ahaz turn back ten steps. So the sun turned back on the dial by ten steps by which it had declined. A writing of Hezekiah, king of Judah, after he had been sick and had recovered from his sickness I said in the middle of my days I must depart. I am consigned to the gates of Sheol for the rest of my years. I said, I shall not see the Lord, the Lord in the land of the living. I shall look on man no more among the inhabitants of the world. My dwelling is plucked up and removed from me, like a shepherd's tent, like a weaver. I have rolled up my life. He cuts me off from the loom. From day to night you bring me to an end. I calmed myself until morning. Like a lion, he breaks all my bones. From day to night you bring me to an end. Like a swallow or a crane, I chirp, I moan like a dove, my eyes are weary with looking upward. Oh Lord, I am oppressed Be my pledge of safety. What shall I say? For he has spoken to me, and he himself has done it. I walk slowly all my years because of the bitterness of my soul. O Lord, by these things men live. And in all these is the life of my spirit. Oh, restore me to health and make me live Behold, it was for my welfare that I had great bitterness. But in love you have delivered my life from the pit of destruction, for you have cast all my sins behind your back, for Sheol does not thank you. Death does not praise you. Those who go down to the pit do not hope for your faithfulness. The living, the living, he thanks you as I do this day The Father makes known to his children your faithfulness. The Lord will save me. And we will play my music on stringed instruments all the days of our lives in the house of the Lord. Now Isaiah had said, Let them take a cake of figs and apply it to the boil that he may recover. Hezekiah also had said, What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the Lord? At that time, Merodok Baladon, the son of Baladon, king of Babylon sent envoys with letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he had heard that he had been sick and had recovered, and Hezekiah welcomed them gladly. And he showed them his treasure house, the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious oil, the whole armory, all that was found in his storehouses. There was nothing in all his house, or in all his realm, that Hezekiah did not show them. Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said, What did these men say? And from where did they come to you? Hezekiah said, They have come to me from a far country, from Babylon. He said, What have they seen in your house? Hezekiah answered, They have seen all that is in my house. There is nothing in my storehouse that I did not show them. Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the Lord of hosts. Behold, the days are coming, when all that is in your house, and all that which your fathers have stored up to this day, shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the Lord. And some of your own sons, who will come from you, whom you will father, shall be taken away, and they shall be eunuchs. in the palace of the king of Babylon. Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, The word of the Lord that you have spoken is good, for he thought there will be peace and security. In my days. Let's pray. Father in heaven, humble us and teach us your way. Encourage us and strengthen us in our faith. Grow us to be more like Jesus. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Well, you know the old saying, be careful what you wish for, you might just get it. I'm sure you've heard that before. What you may not know is it's actually a variation of an old Yiddish curse. And the Yiddish curse is, may you get what you wish for. And that makes me think of genies. Because we all know that my mind just works that way. You've got to follow me. So You know the deal with genies, of course, is you get to rub the lamp and you get three wishes. And in in real genie stories, whatever you wish for, the genie gives it to you. But in such a way that it actually is a curse to you, right? So you say, I want to be rich, but you didn't specify exactly how, and so all of a sudden you're buried underneath a mountain of trillions of pennies. You're now the richest man in the world, but you're dead. Or you say, I want to be so attractive. Right? And all of a sudden, every living thing on earth just won't leave you alone and they're just hounding you the whole time, right? That's how those things go, right? But in real life, sometimes we get exactly what we think we really want, and even what we think we most desperately need, and it can lead to disastrous consequences Because of our human nature. How many highly successful professional athletes have had their wealth and their success disappear so quickly through poor personal choices or through these leeches who sort of latch onto them and suck off of their success. And so, you know, three or four years after they retire and they've made a hundred million dollars or more, they're bankrupt and have nothing left. Sometimes reaching the top, you realize what you thought you wanted isn't what you On the other hand, the things that we most often fear and dread are used by God in marvelous ways in our lives To grow us. Trials and challenges often strengthen our faith. They draw us closer to the Lord and those we love, and they help us grow in humility and patience. And we can see that spread across these chapters in Isaiah 38 and 39. What was unwelcome by Hezekiah A sickness that God said was going to lead to death, that ended up doing his heart good because it humbled him. And he prayed and he sought the Lord earnestly. And then what Hezekiah welcomed and was excited about, envoys from Babylon, that's like a thousand miles away. They they came here to see me, little me And they brought me presents because they heard that I was sick and everything. How wonderful this is. He's so excited about them coming. And yet that was the disaster that he didn't So both thirty-eight and thirty-nine open with this vague time reference. In those days, Hezekiah became sick and was at the point of death. And then 39, at that time, Meradoch Balanin Son of Valid. And so this follows right after what we were looking at last, which is the you know, the Assyrian army surrounding Jerusalem and almost conquering it until God very miraculously intervenes and wipes out 185,000 of the Assyrian soldiers. Most Bible scholars say that At least chapter 38, while it says in those days vaguely, it must have taken place shortly before That final confrontation and defeat of the Assyrians. And the reason for that is right in the text. If you look at chapter 38 and you look at God's answer to Hezekiah, In verses 5 and 6, God says, I've heard your prayer, I've seen your tears. Behold, I will add 15 years to your life. I will deliver you And this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria and will defend this city. So, you know, if the Assyrian army's already been wiped out and they've already gone home, That that response doesn't really make all that much sense. But so it's probably written before. And then it's unclear whether the envoys come immediately after the Assyrian destruction or even before, when maybe Hezekiah was still looking for some allies. But when exactly these events happen isn't as important as why they're put into the order they're put in. here in this section of Isaiah. And it's important for good reason. You see, God is in control of our lives, and he orders everything for his glory and for our good, but he doesn't explain it to us He asks us to trust him. He doesn't show us the number of our days. He doesn't show us the story of our life. We just live it day by day, and he asks us to trust him that he knows what he's doing. And what we have here is really Hezekiah undergoing three tests. Last week's sermon, it was the test of attack. He's under attack. He's under incredible pressure. He's surrounded by enemies. And today it's the it's the test of affliction, sickness, right? And then it's the test of success. Of popularity, of the lure of the world. What's happening in the history of God's people is that the book of Isaiah as a book When Isaiah puts it together, and I think he did put it together, is actually intended for the for the encouragement of the people of God who are going to go into Babylonian exile. That's why this section ends with this part from the envoys from Babylon and this foretelling of the Babylonian exile. And then everything in 40 and later is really good news That is meant to encourage those who are in Babylonian exile. They would have already suffered attack and defeat. They would have already suffered bondage and oppression, but what was the danger they were facing? The real danger is that when they got to Babylon, it would look pretty good. It would be a pretty comfortable place to live. They could get along just fine. And that's why I think this is putting in the order that it is, because sometimes what Satan cannot get from us through direct attack or even through affliction and illness, when those things draw us closer to God, sometimes He'll use a carrot instead of a stick. He'll use a prize to draw our hearts away. And that's what we see Hezekiah doing. And it's relevant to us because we live in Babylon. I don't know if you knew that or not, but we do. America is not the new Israel. America is Babylon. It is the world's great power, the wealthiest nation in the world. We're in Babylon. The danger for us is that it would be too comfortable. That we'd be too much at home. Now we are supposed to pray for the peace of the city where God has sent us. We are supposed to build houses and plant vineyards. It's all from Jeremiah 29, the letter that God writes to them. the exiles in Babylon, but we're not supposed to fall in love. We're not supposed to give Babylon our heart. And if we do, that's when disaster comes. comes through something that looks good. Alright, so let's let's walk through this text together. Hezekiah gets this word. From God through the prophet Isaiah. And it's a sobering word. I mean, it doesn't get much worse than this. Set your house in order. For you shall die. I want us to just take a moment and hear that. Raise your hand if you know that if the Lord doesn't come back first, one day, you're going to die. Okay, so this is a message for all of us, isn't it? Set your house in order, for you shall die. You don't know how much longer you have. You might have 15 years. You might have 50 years. You might have 20 minutes. I wonder if you got a message directly like this and you knew in this way that your days were limited. You didn't know exactly how long, but they were limited. Here's the cancer. It's not treatable. You have this thing in your brain, and it's just a matter of of time, you get a message like that. How would that change the way you live? Used to be said in our culture that if you know you're going to die, you better prepare to meet your maker. That's the way we would talk about it within our culture. You better prepare to meet your maker Now we talk about, well, you're going to kick the bucket. Better get those things checked off your bucket list, right? Think how without language shapes the way we think, right? Get your house in order. Is your soul right with God? Are you trusting in Jesus? For your salvation? Or are you somehow hoping vainly that your own righteousness is going to be good enough when you meet your Maker? Because you will The only way to have the house of your soul in order is to have it built on the solid foundation of the Lord Jesus Christ. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. The house of your soul is in order if Jesus is the foundation. That means his righteousness is your only righteousness. You don't claim any of your That means his death is your only atonement and forgiveness for your sins. You're not doing things to try to get God to forgive you. Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain. He washed it white as snow. If his resurrection is your sure hope for eternal life, that you know that because he lives, I will live forever in him. If Jesus is your life both now and for eternity, then you are ready for eternity. And the house of your soul is in good order. But on a human level, we might also ask ourselves, do your loved ones know how much you love them? Is there a relationship that you've allowed to drift into estrangement that you could pursue reconciliation? Set your house in order, for you shall die. And that's good news. That was actually the most helpful thing Isaiah heard or Hezekiah heard in these two chapters. The most unhelpful thing was, hey, these royal officials from this great kingdom on the other side of the world, they came to see you and bring you a present. Well, how does Hezekiah respond to this sobering word? He he immediately turns to the Lord. He turns his face to the wall. Turns away from Isaiah, turns his back on him, but he's not turning his back on God, he's turning to the Lord. He prays to the Lord. He says, please, O Lord, remember. How I have walked before you in faithfulness and with a whole heart, and have done what is good in your sight. And Hezekiah wept bitterly. Hezekiah has already been king for fifteen years by this time. He's about thirty-nine years old So when he says in his uh song that he wrote, I said, in the middle of my days I must depart, right? The psalmist says that God gives to us seventy years, or if by reason of strength, eighty. Right? Here he's 39 years old. He's in the middle of his life. And he can In his fifteen years on the throne he had been thoroughly reforming worship and life throughout Judah He had gotten rid of all the pagan idols. He had torn down all the high places where they were worshiping the Lord but in a pagan way. He had reformed their worship. He had renovated the temple. He had called people back. To the Lord, and undoing all the wickedness of his father Ahaz, he had spent time honoring God. And so he He asks the Lord to remember. He doesn't even directly ask for healing. He just says, please, O Lord, remember Remember. Remember is a covenantal word. We see it in Scripture when God remembers his covenant promises and acts with favor, with steadfast love, with chesed toward his people. That's what remember means. Remember, O Lord. And so he's asking God to regard him with favor and kindness. And his weeping shows that he has no hope but in the Lord. Now God's gracious answer to Hezekiah's sincere prayer comes almost immediately. We don't see this here in Isaiah. But there's a parallel passage in 2 Kings 20. And in 2 Kings 20, we see how the answer comes almost immediately. So in 2 Kings 20, if you want to like turn there and follow along, we're going to read a little section from that because it's The same story, a lot of the same words, but we get some information from 2 Kings that we don't have here in Isaiah. So 2 Kings 20, verse 3, Hezekiah wept bitterly, and then it says And before Isaiah had gone out of the middle court, the word of the Lord came to him, Turn back, and say to Hezekiah, the leader of my people, thus says the Lord, the God of David, your father, I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears. Behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of the Lord, and I will add fifteen years to your life. I will deliver you and the city out of the hand of the of the king of Assyria, and I will defend the city for my own sake and for my servant David's sake. And Isaiah said, Bring a cake of figs, and let them take and lay it on the boil, that he may recover. And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, What shall be the sign that the Lord will heal me, and that I shall go up to the house of the Lord on the third day? And Isaiah said, This shall be the sign to you from the Lord, that the Lord will do the thing that he has promised. Shall the shadow go forward ten steps or back ten steps? And Hezekiah answered, It is an easy thing for the shadow to lengthen And Isaiah the prophet called to the Lord, and he brought the shadow back ten steps by which it had gone down on the steps of Ahaz. First, just how quickly God responded to his prayer. God was testing Isaiah. He wanted to see if Isaiah was going to seek other gods, seek other remedies, seek other ways, or if he was going to seek him. And as soon as Hezekiah sought the Lord first, God was ready and waiting to give him what he had always planned to give him, and that is the answer. Now that's not always how it works for us. Sometimes we do have to struggle long and hard in prayer. But sometimes God has the answer ready for us as soon as we seek Him, and sometimes it comes so quickly that we miss it. You ever have a incident while you're driving, you're going down the road, and all of a sudden something jumps out in front of you or the cars in front of you stop much more suddenly than you thought. And you're just like, oh no, right? And you don't get into an accident, right? Sometimes God answers us that quickly, right? He spares us that quickly. And so often when it happens that quickly, we don't even notice, right? How often do we like Right? We just go, oh no, then we go, we don't say, thank you, Lord, right? Because that was God's intervention. But here we have this quick answer. The other thing we see is this remarkable sign of this shadow being cast by the declining guile. It's actually in response to Hezekiah's request. God is gracious enough to ask Hezekiah for this miraculous sign, which Hezekiah does. This is in direct contrast to his father Ahaz, who was asked by the Lord in chapter 7, if you remember back Bethar, when the Syrians were threatening, and God said he was going to deliver them. And Isaiah said to Ahaz, ask the Lord for a sign. And he said, Oh, I don't want to ask the Lord for a sign. And what was going on behind the scenes is he had already sent treasure to Assyria So it's a contrast between Ahaz, who refused to ask the Lord for a sign when he was told, and Hezekiah, who does ask the Lord for a sign. when he's told it. So he's faithful. And then the the last thing to see is notice it's on the third day that he gets up from his deathbed and goes to the temple to worship the Lord. Like Jonah was spit out of the mouth of the fish on the third day. Hezekiah gets up from his deathbed on the third day. These are historical types, foreshadowings of the resurrection, which we're getting ready to see. Celebrate. Perhaps this is one of the stories that Jesus told to the men on the road to Emmaus when he opened up on all the scriptures concerning him, how he was resurrected on the third day according to the scripture. One more thing, and that is that even though God healed Hezekiah miraculously, he still had Isaiah ask for a cake of figs to be put on the boil. So what What disease was Hezekiah suffering from? We don't know. But it was one that was manifest by a boil on his skin. Now that may have been leprosy And Hezekiah's great grandfather, Uzziah, had lived out the last of his days as a leper, shut out from the rest of the people. So he may be thinking about that, oh leprosy It's maybe his great his great grandfather's curse has come upon him. But it also may have been a plague, because you also can have a breakout of a boil if you have the plague. Either way, what he writes in his in his extended song is that whatever time he had left, not only was he surely going to die, but he was going to be isolated. He was going to be put in quarantine. He was going to be locked in a room by himself and with no human contact for the rest of the The healing comes miraculously through God, but it also comes through means. Put a cake of figs on the boil. Now the cake of figs itself was not a sufficient answer. If it had been, there wouldn't have been this distress. It's not like all of a sudden they said, oh yeah, we know the cure for this. Just put a cake of figs on it. How silly of us to forget. No, that's not the point. It was he was going to die. But when God healed, he did use means as part of that healing. This helps us to think about our interactions with medicine. Right? Sometimes God heals us miraculously, but oftentimes he uses medicine, but oftentimes he uses medicine to do what the medicine's not even supposed to be able to do. And there's someone here who can testify to that. where the medicine's not even supposed to make your cancer go away, but your cancer goes away and you get an extra twelve years of life beyond what you said you were going to get. God can be good in that way. And Hezekiah praises God. He praises God with this great wonderful praise song that he writes for God's people to sing. We're not going to go into detail on that, but this is just a reminder that we God has been so good to us in Christ. God never treats us as our sins deserve. God is always good and gracious to us, and so we always have reason to praise God. Every week on the Lord's Day, every day as we get up, we should praise the Lord. And now is the part where we have to say, if only Hezekiah's story ended. at the end of chapter 38. But as the old saying goes, the best of men are but men at best. And even the best of earthly kings are inadequate and insufficient. There is not one king in the whole of the Old Testament who was perfect and good enough for God's people. David? Mm-mm. Hezekiah? Mm-mm. Josiah? Mm-mm. Why? Because we need King Jesus. We need a king who's more than merely human. Well, let's look at what he does here and the significance of it. At that time, Meridoch Baladon, son of Baladon, king of Babylon, sent envoys with letters and a present to Hezekiah. For he heard that he was sick and had recovered. And Hezekiah welcomed them gladly, showed him his treasure house, the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious oil, his whole armory, all that was found in the storehouses. There was nothing in all his house or all his realm that Hezekiah did not show them. We don't know if the reason why the envoys came is because The sun did a weird thing that day. They're like, we knew that they had astrologers and they had sky watchers in Babylon. They're like, wait a minute, something weird going on with the sun. And then they get news, oh, the king of Jerusalem was Sick unto death and they got healed. Oh wait, that was the same time that son was doing the weird thing. Let's let's go send him. Or or maybe they heard about the route of the hundred and eighty-five thousand. We don't know for sure God doesn't tell us, which means it's not important for us to know. What is important for us to know is that twice in recent history Judah had sought help from foreign powers. Go back to chapter seven, when Ahaz refused the sign, the threat was from Syria, right? Like the same place as present-day nation. state of Syria, Damascus. And they called in Assyria, which is today where northern Babylon, Babylon, or Iraq is. And so they call in usyria with treasure and that kind of works except it's like I've got a mouse infestation in my house. Let me get a tiger to come in here and get rid of the mice. That was kind of what they were doing when they were sending treasure to Assyria and inviting them to come and wipe out Syria. That was just a bad move. And then we had the more recent one where they send treasure down to Egypt. Egypt to try to get Egypt to supply them with horses and chariots. So twice they've sought foreign alliance. And both times it was disappointing. Now foreign alliance is seeking them Whew. Wow, that big time now they're coming to us with a present? With letters There's no doubt that the Babylonians are seeking an alliance with Judah against Assyria, who's kind of in between the two of them. And there's no doubt that Hezekiah is excited by this prospect. He's arrived. He is now a celebrity king. He now matters in the affairs of the world. His pride. His susceptibility to flattery and his tendency to look for allies among the nations instead of simply trusting the Lord are all on display here. What Hezekiah doesn't realize is that what he gave Babylon was not just a good reason to think of little Judah as a potential ally, but also to think of little Judah as a prize worth seeking and taking. Hmm, wouldn't it be nice to add those things to our treasury? And then when the word of the Lord comes from Isaiah, his response could not have been more different from his response to the word about his sickness. He didn't seek the Lord for counsel when the Babylonian envoys arrived, and he didn't seek the Lord in repentance with tears at the word of coming judgment. He's simply content that at least he is going to have an easy life. It does kind of bring to mind the foolishness of a country that would accumulate some thirty trillion dollars in debt. And say, that's all right. We'll be okay. We're the largest economy in the world. Pride is the root human sin. Not lust, not covetousness, not violence, not anger. Pride is the root human sin. It is the taproot of sin. And really all other sins you can see as a manifestation of that pride. Entitlement. Ego And here's the thing about pride. Affliction and attack will generally humble us in our pride and cause us to seek the Lord. But flattery. Someone who comes courting our allegiance That is a more dangerous trap because it puffs up our pride. It plays right into our roots in. And so while we might initially respond to trials with some level of great confidence, the greater the trials are, they usually break that in us. But great blessings, great opportunities. Great prizes on offer from the world, the greater they are, the more they inflate our pride and the more they make us complacent. And this is why we must We must live our lives in humble gratitude to the Lord for what He has already given us and cultivate contentment And loyalty to him above all else. In trial, give thanks to the Lord In triumph, give thanks to the Lord. When under persecution, give thanks to the Lord. When being praised by men, give thanks to the Lord. Because that's the thing that reminds us, none of this is from me. All of this is from the gracious hand of God. All of it is in love. All of it is for my good. So I will seek him and I will praise him. That's what we have to do. That's the reason why the Bible tells us over and over again: give thanks in all circumstances. Rejoice in the Lord always. Give thanks at all times. We have to repent of our self-satisfaction as well as our self-reliance. We have to anchor our lives in grateful worship every season and every circumstance of our lives. lives. And we need to realize that we need a better king than any king this world has to offer. You know, the king of Babylon came offering his alliance, and Hezekiah said, yes. We would look back on that situation and say, well, Hezekiah was actually a more righteous king. No king, no ruler, no president, no politician, no candidate for office. Is good enough for God's people to give our unfailing loyalty to. Only King Jesus. Only King Jesus He's the one who gives us our righteousness and our peace and our eternal life, and he is the only King who's never broken a promise and never will. Who's never lost a battle and never will. Who's never failed in any of his purposes and he never will. Gratitude and loyalty to our King. Let's pray Father, thank you for loving us. Thank you for giving us life in your Son Jesus. Thank you for bringing us out of death. Death is no longer something we need to fear or panic because we're in Christ, who is the resurrection and the life. Help us to be grateful. And not overly impressed by the world's offers of wealth or fame or influence or followers or whatever. Make us grateful. Make us joyful. Make us worshipful from the heart, day by day, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen.