Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. We are working our way through this wonderful series of questions and answers. Catechisms are a a time-honored, long-standing teaching tool. It's a way of instructing in the truth by thinking things through logically. leading through a series of questions and answers. This is a gospel catechism. It's leading us to gospel comfort. It began with that first famous question, what is your only comfort in life and in death? And the answer is that I am not my own. but I belong body and soul in life and then death to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ. And so we're working working our way through this catechism and we're in the grace section and we've come to see that Jesus is the only mediator and only deliverer because he's true God and true and righteous man and he's the one who makes atonement for us. But we need to believe. We need to be received and to receive. And that means faith. And faith means, well, there's a question, what is it exactly that we need to believe? We can say, I believe, but believe what exactly? And that's where we are. We're taking a look at the Apostles' Creed. One of the oldest, really the oldest in conversation. continual use credal statement in the history of the church going back to the early days of the church, and that's where we are in our journey through the Heidelberg Catechism. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig in today or together today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for sending your Son. And thank you for giving us wonderful teaching tools that help us to understand, to break down and grasp. Not only with our minds, but also with our hearts, what Jesus has done for us and who He is and who you are and how we should respond to all of that. So we pray that you would bless us by your Holy Spirit today, grow us in faith, and strengthen our love for Jesus, we pray in His name. Amen. Amen. Well, we are really going to be looking at questions 23 and 24 today, and particularly at question 24 that talks about how the Apostles' creed is divided, but to review first we go back to question twenty-two. And that is, what then must a Christian believe? You see Belief, faith has to have content. Some people speak about faith as if it's just something we do or regenerate. I have faith. And I know that my faith will get me through, and my faith brings so much comfort to me. And they never talk about exactly what it is that they believe in. What where is their faith placed? And you'd almost think listening to them that they have faith in their own faith. That's not Christian faith. That's not true gospel comfort. A Christian must believe certain things to be true and must receive them to his soul. All that is promised in the gospel, a Christian must believe. Well, how do we know all that is promised in the gospel? Well, the answer goes on to say, which the articles of our Catholic and undoubted Christian faith teach us in a summary. Again, Catholic here, we've mentioned this several times, but I don't know if you've heard all the previous devotionals. It's a lowercase C. It means universal, worldwide. In other words, this is what all Christians everywhere in the world believe and throughout all time have believed. It is the statement of our faith, and it is known as the Apostles' Creed. So question 23 asks, what are these articles? Answer, I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and buried. He descended into hell On the third day he arose from the dead, he ascended into heaven, and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. This is the Apostles' Creed. This is the universal statement that Christians all over the world believe and that Christians all throughout time have believed. And it's divided up here into 12 statements or 12 articles that have three main sections to them. And that's what question 24 asks. How are these articles, these 12 articles of faith, divided into three parts? The first is about God the Father and our creation. The second is about the Son and our redemption. The third is about God the Holy Spirit and our sanctification. Next time we're going to dig a little bit more deeply into the doctrine of the Trinity, but right now we want to see that what we have in the Apostles' Creed is a three-part Confession of Faith, a Pete three-part creed statement. The first part is focused on God the Father, and it's focused on creation. Because that's where the Bible begins. That's where we have to begin. We have to believe in one God who is the creator of heaven and earth. And then we move from God the Father to God the Son, who is our Savior. He's Jesus Christ, our Savior, our Lord. And so it focuses on what Jesus did for us and for our salvation. And then the third part focuses on the Holy Spirit. who really forms the church by bringing us to Christ and sanctifies us, that is, makes us holy and grows us in holiness. So there's three main articles of these twelve um things that we believe that are summarized here in the Apostles' Creed. The first about God the Father and our creation, the second about God the Son and our redemption, the third about God the Holy Spirit. and our sanctification. We can see really all three persons of the Trinity working in all three of these, creation, redemption, and sanctification. Let's see this in creation. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, let there be light. And there was light. Here we see God Creating. The Spirit hovering. And where is the Son? Well, he's the Word. The Word of God spoken. Let there be light, which is the power of God, to effect change, to bring about creation. So so we're told that God the Father created through the Son and by the Spirit. And this is what we see in creation, all three members of the Trinity. But it's primarily God the Father who's the fountainhead of divine activity and taking the initiative there to work by through the Son and by the Spirit In our salvation. In our salvation, we have all three members of the Trinity involved because when we're baptized, we're baptized into the name, the triune name of God. Jesus sends out the apostles to take the gospel to the nations, and he says all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. This is the Great Commission. This is the proclamation of our salvation, which was accomplished by Jesus. who now has all authority to send out this gospel to the nations. But as we take the gospel out, we are to baptize people in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, the one singular name of the triune God. As we're sanctified, as salvation is applied to us, it's the work of the Triune God. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing, that is, Holy Spirit given blessing, in the heavenly places. So it's God the Father. who's blessed us in Christ with every Holy Spirit blessing in the heavenly places. That's our sanctification. That is how we are set aside and gathered together as the church and made holy. And one more is the blessing that we get in the name of the triune God, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. So we see in all phases, in creation, in redemption, In our sanctification, the triune God is at work, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And yet it is the Spirit who applies to us the spiritual blessings. It's the Spirit who is our fellowship. He's he's the Koinania. He's the one with us in our sanctification. It's Jesus who has secured all these spiritual blessings for us because he's the one who has all authority in heaven and on earth, and he's the one who has accomplished our salvation. And so I think The Heidelberg Catechism rightly points out that the Apostles' Creed is rightly set up into these three parts, where God the Father And the creation is first, God the Son, and our redemption is second, and God the Holy Spirit and our sanctification is third Next time we're going to be talking more about the Trinity. Now I know for a lot of believers, even believers who've been Christians for a long time, the doctrine of the Trinity can be something that feels overwhelming and feels mind-blowing and feels just too too difficult to to even begin to think about properly, let alone really receive and respond to. But this is how God has revealed himself. He's revealed himself in creation, in redemption, in sanctification, in coming glory. He's revealed himself as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. is one God and yet three persons. And so we're going to dig into this a little bit more next time and hopefully as we as we meditate on the Trinity, as we think about the the acts of creation, redemption, sanctification, the promise of coming glory, we get more and more gospel comfort from knowing how God is working. In this divinely mysterious way for us and for our salvation, to make us, to save us, to make us holy, to bring us all the way home to Him. To God be the glory. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for all that you have done for us in Jesus our Savior. We pray. You would help us to receive, to rest, to believe, to respond, to live. In faith and love for you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, as we've been doing, let's respond to God's truth to us. truth to us by singing back to him through song, we're gonna sing together to God be the glory. Great things he has done. Great things he had done, so lovely love that he gave us his son, who yielded alive. On the fourth year And so in the life be that only go in Free the Lord Oh the earth is noise, praise the Lord people rejoice, welcome to the Father. Who Jesus does not in the glory bringing the Oh perfect tension of love. To every believer, the promise of God to hunt virtually. Praise the Lord and to keep for me yours to come to power through Jesus the God. And give him the glory, great thing he has to God be the glory, great things here. He had done so loved he though after he gave us his son who healed his life at some meant for sin. And so pin the light gate that all may go away.