Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you As we wrap up our 35th week together in the Gospels, we're looking at John 12, verses 12 to 26 today, the triumphal entry as recorded in John's Gospel. And we're going to be asking an unusual question today. Was the triumphal entry a failure? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, and thank you for what your word shows us of your son. Thank you that you love us and that your love for us is unfailing. Be with us. Teach us today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right, John 12, 12-26. The next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel! And Jesus found a young donkey, and sat on it, just as it is written, Fear not, O daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign. So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the whole world has gone after him. Now Among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Beth Seda in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If any one serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there my servant shall be also If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. The triumphal entry of Jesus on that first Palm Sunday is one of the most famous, one of the most celebrated, one of the most remembered events from the Gospels, from the life of Jesus. Large crowds gathered around Jesus. They praised him. They cut down branches. They shouted, Hosannah, which means Save now. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. They pressed around Jesus. They accompanied him on his ride into Jerusalem in such large numbers that the Pharisees are saying Look, you're gaining nothing. The whole world has gone after him. But was it all just a failure? What was the point? Just a few days later, many of these same people, this same basic crowd, would form again at the instigation of the Pharisees and the chief priests. And they would look at Jesus and they wouldn't cry Hosanna, but they would cry, crucify him. So was it a failure? It on a human, political, external level, it seems to be a sort of a flash in the pan. And it faded quicker than a TikTok trend. I mean, it just seemed to be an absolute waste. But is that true? Jesus gives us the understanding of this in today's passage immediately after the triumphal entry, immediately after the Pharisees say, look, the whole world has gone after him. There are some Greeks who were there at the feast. The big feasts and festivals that were held in Jerusalem three times a year, Passover, Pentecost, Tabernacles. They drew thousands and thousands of Jews from all over the Roman Empire, but also a lot of interested spectators, a lot of people who wanted to see what it was all about. There was a lot of pageantry, there was a lot of spectacle. It was very, very unlike any other temple or any other religious celebration anywhere in the Roman Empire. After all, in the temple there was no image of their God. Their God was a God who had no image, this Yahweh or Jehovah, the Lord. of the Jewish people. And so there were all these onlookers, and some of them were curious and interested. So here are some Greeks. And what do the Greeks say? Well they want to see Jesus. Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Now, what why do they want to see him? Do they think he's going to be the Messiah that the Jewish people are hoping for? Are they wanting to see a miracle time? We don't know. We just know that they want to see him. But it's how Jesus responds, really, in verses 24 to 26 that show us That the triumphal entry was not a failure, but that it did exactly what it was supposed to accomplish within the purposes God had for Jesus and for his people. Jesus said the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Now, if that's all he said Andrew and Philip might have thought, all right, this is it. Not only did we have this huge Jewish crowd praising him, not only did we hear the Pharisees say, That the whole world is going after him, but here, as evidence, here are some Greeks and they're going after him too. And Jesus Himself says it's the hour for the Son of Man to be glorified. Get ready, guys. This is it. The kingdom's coming. We're going to sit on thrones. We're going to ride into battle next to Jesus. We're going to get glory. Ah, but then what does Jesus say? Because the way Jesus defines glory and the hour of his glorification is completely different than what His disciples expected that how the world defines glory. He said, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. Now that's that's the answer of Jesus. He's going to be glorified. But he's going to be glorified by offering up his life freely. He's going to lay down his life for the sheep, as he had said a couple of chapters earlier in John ten. No one will take his life from him, but he will lay it down. Jesus is not seeking earthly success. He is seeking the cross, not Pontius Pilate's throne or Herod's throne or the Emperor of Rome's pomp and circumstance. Those things are hollow, they are temporary, they are not transformative, they don't bring redemption They don't bring joy and life to people. But Jesus knows that by laying down his life, being heralded as the king, being welcomed as the king who was promised, which is exactly what he is as the King of Kings and as the Lord of Lords, as the one who to whom belongs all glory and honor and power, as that king He lays down his life willingly, and in so doing, he bears much fruit, a countless multitude Far greater than the crowd on Palm Sunday, far greater than the whole population of the Roman Empire at the time, Jesus bears much fruit. from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, but he does so by losing his life, by laying it down, not by chasing worldly success. And then verse 26 speaks to you and me If anyone serves me, he must follow me. In other words, Jesus is saying The way the church continues to grow, the way that Jesus continues to bear fruit, the way that we can be successful, the way that we can share in his glory is to share in his suffering. is to share in his rejection, is to share in laying down our lives for Jesus, with Jesus, for the glory of God and for the good of the world. That's not success how the world defines it, but it is success how God defines it. And that's what really matters, because only God can define what is eternally and truly successful. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you for sending your Son Jesus to be our Savior. He laid down his life willingly so that we might have life. And he says to us, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. Or as he says here, if any one serves me, he must follow me, and where I am, there my servant will be also. We cannot avoid the cross. the shame, the rejection, the dying to self that Jesus embraced if we are going to be Christ's followers and Christ's ambassadors in this world Forgive us for times when we seek human glory, when we just want to be liked, when we want to be powerful, when we want to get our own way instead of honoring you. May we honor you and be faithful to whatever you call us to. For your glory, in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope that this week's series was impactful for you and helpful. I know it's always helpful for me to spend time in God's Word. And having these opportunities to teach is a blessing to me. I hope it is a blessing to you as well. Lord willing, we'll be back next week. I hope you have a good weekend. I hope you spend time worshiping with God's people on the Lord's Day. Have a blessed day in the Lord.