Amen. Turn with me, please, to Isaiah 44. We're going to pick up with verse 6 and go through verse 20 as we consider the one true God, the Lord, the King of Israel. and the false man-made gods of idolatry. This is the Word of God Isaiah 44, verses 6 through 20. Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts, I am the first. And I am the last. Besides me, there is no God. Who is like me? Let him proclaim it. Let him declare and set it before me, since I appointed an ancient people. Let them declare what is to come and what will happen. Fear not Nor be afraid. Have I not told you from of old and declared it? And you are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? There is no rock. I know not any. All who fashion idols are nothing. And the things they delight in do not profit. Their witnesses neither see nor know, that they may be put to shame. Who fashions a god or casts an idol that is profitable for nothing? Behold, all his companions shall be put to shame, and the craftsmen are only human. Let them all assemble. Let them stand forth. They shall be terrified. They shall be put to shame together. The ironsmith takes a cutting tool and works it over the coals. He fashions it with hammers and works it with his strong arm. He becomes hungry. And his strength fails. He drinks no water and is faint. The carpenter stretches a line. He marks it out with a pencil. He shapes it with planes and marks it with a compass. He shapes it into the figure of a man, with the beauty of a man to dwell in a house. He cuts down cedars. Or he chooses a cypress tree or an oak and lets it grow strong among the trees of the forest. He plants a cedar and the rain nourishes it. Then it becomes fuel for a man. He takes a part of it and he warms himself. He he he makes He makes he kindles a fire and bakes bread. Also he makes a god and worships it. He makes it an idol and falls down before it. Half of it, he burns in the fire. Over the half, he eats meat. He roasts. Aidan is satisfied. Also, he warms himself and says, Aha, I am warm. I have seen the fire. And the rest he makes into a God. His idol and falls down to it and worships it. He prays to it and says, Deliver me, for you are my God. They do not, they know not, nor do they discern. For he has shut their eyes so that they cannot see, and their hearts so that they cannot understand. No one considers, nor is their knowledge or discernment to say, half of it I burned in the fire I also baked bread on its coals, I roasted meat and have eaten, and shall I make the rest of it into an abomination? Shall I fall down before a block of wood? He feeds on ashes. A deluded heart has led him astray. He cannot deliver himself or say, is there not a lie in my right hand? Let's pray. Father, it is so easy for us to read a passage like this and think, how foolish. What kind of people would carve up a piece of wood and then bow down before it? And yet we are blind to our own idolatry, which is just as foolish. To trust in and to look to any created thing, to give us what you alone have given us in Christ and will give us when he returns. To trust. In created things rather than the Creator is the height of folly and wickedness and ingratitude. So show us the idols of our hearts today that we might repent And show us your glory that we might worship and trust. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You may be seated. On the island of Tana, in the Pacific Island nation of Vanuatu Starting in the 1940s and thriving until the late 1990s, Thousands of islanders worshipped John Frum, a mythical American World War II serviceman. who they believed had been seen in a vision and promised to return to their island and expel all of the white westers giving all of their wealth to the natives. And they built altars to John Frum and they prayed to John Frum. There's a documentary you can get on YouTube. It's called When God is an American Serviceman. Thankfully, most of the island of Tana has been reached with the gospel, and those people have been freed from the cult of John Fromm and now worship Jesus Christ. It's actually not unique. On many Pacific Islands, what happened in World War II is that cargo from ships that were sunk were in wooden crates and they floated and they washed ashore on Pacific Islands. And these Pacific Islanders, with no contact with the outside world, they saw wooden crates full of food and tools and weapons and clothing and they thought this was the gift of the gods. And so sociologists talk about the the cargo cults that actually were widespread throughout the Pacific Islands. uh during World War II. The John Frum cult was just one of the most popular and long-lasting. And it's silly of us to think, uh, how can a people come to worship a non-existent American serviceman? and believe that he's going to come and save their civilization. But then, do you remember the NFT craze of a couple of years ago? You can get this digital asset. People would pay millions of dollars for a computer file. What? Like, why? And then of course, is that really any sillier than paying millions of dollars for a baseball card? Just cardboard with ink printed on it? But oh it's a Honus Wagner and it's, you know, this rare and it's worth. Of course, you could sort of break that down about almost anything. If you look at it objectively, some of the things that we do and some of the things that we trust in are very silly. This passage here paints for us a ridiculous picture of the kind of pagan idolatry that was common in biblical times and frankly is still common among millions and millions of people around the world. And we in our educated Western sophisticated technological scientific age, we say, oh, what a ridiculous thing to do. We would never do that. But anytime, anytime we trust in the creation rather than in the creator, anytime we give our heart, our allegiance, our hopes, Our fears to the creation rather than the creator, that is idolatry Idolatry is trusting in a fake God instead of the one true God. Idols are man-made, culture-created, modifiable, pretend gods. In the ancient world, they thought there were these supernatural beings, and they could access them through these wooden statues or these metal statues. We don't have those same kinds of statues, but we still have idols. This passage calls us to first understand the one true God. And what he has promised and what he has provided, and then realize how absurd it is to be looking for those things in anything created. So verses six to eight, we have a call. to know and worship the one true God. And then in verses 9 to 20 we have this picture of the folly of idolatry. So let's look again at verses 1 to 6 to 8. Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts. I am the first, and I am the last. Besides me, there is no God. Who is like me? Let him proclaim it. Let him declare and set it before me, since I appointed an ancient people. Let them declare what is to come and what will happen. Fear not, nor be afraid. Have I not told you from of old and declared it? And you are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? There is no rock. I know not any. The first two lines of verse 6, God identifies who he is. First he says, I am the Lord, and then he says, I am the Lord of hosts. He is the Lord, Yahweh, the great I Am, the self-sufficient and eternally unchanging one. He's the first and he's the last. There's no other rock. There's no one else like him. Everything in the entire universe is created and contingent. No matter how reliable, no matter how wonderful we think it is, no matter how permanent we think it is, everything in the world is created and contingent. Remember several years ago when they were coming out with the state quarters and everybody was putting on the state quarters the things that were significant to them? And New Hampshire's state quarter came out and it was the man on the mountain because there was this great rock formation in the New Hampshire Mountains where this face was right on the side of the mountain. And it's like granite mountains. You know, that's granite's like the stuff that doesn't ever age or wear away. And so here is this man of the mountain in the great state of New Hampshire. And then just a couple years after the quarter comes out, the whole face slid off the mount and oops That's the reality of trusting in anything in this world. It doesn't last. It's temporary. It's continued. But the Lord is the Lord. I am who I am. I never change. I don't need anyone to make me who I am. I am the eternal, self-sufficient, self-existing, unchanging one, and I am the Lord of hosts. I am Yahweh of hosts. That's the heavenly host. That's the armies of heaven because he commands the supernatural forces. Of heaven. And who is he to us? The King of Israel and his Redeemer. King, the one who reigns over us, to protect and to provide. We don't really think about kings that much these days, and if we do, it's sort of in a ceremonial role like King Charles III in England who mostly just lives in big houses and shows up at fancy things and wears, you know, fancy clothes and has a sword and whatever. It's ceremonial. But in in ancient times, the king was the one you wanted to protect and to provide for your people. When Israel said, We need a king like all the other nations, they said, we need a king who will go and fight our battles for us. That was the main purpose of a king. He's going to go and fight our battles for us. That's why they picked King Saul, who was head and shoulders taller than everybody else. I do think it's funny that the only times the Bible refers to specifically tall people, it's always a bad thing. Saul was head and shoulders taller than everybody else, not fit to be king. Goliath was the tallest guy in the whole Bible, and he's a bad guy. So anyway, it's And then and then whenever people are commented as being short, it's usually a good thing, like Zacchaeus who gets up the tree to look for Jesus. And anyway, just a side commentary. Should have been a few more amen to that, but anyway. Um But the king is the one who protects and provides. And and it's why it was wrong, it wasn't necessarily wrong for Israel to have a king, because God actually had intended all along that he was going to make David king and the Davidic dynasty and the Son of David, King Jesus, is our king. It wasn't wrong for Israel to have a king. It was wrong for them to say, we need a human being who will fight our battles for us. And remember what God told Samuel? Don't be downhearted. They're not rejecting you. They're rejecting me from being king over them. It was deliberately saying, Lord, we can't trust you to fight our battles for us. We need a king, a human king, who can fight our battles for us. When the kings failed, they would enter into alliances with foreign kings and they would pay tribute to get protection and provision that God had already promised them himself. He had already said, I will protect you. I'm the king. I'm the redeemer. The redeemer is the one who rescues and delivers. And then he says, I am the only rock. The rock is where you go for refuge, for protection. He says, is there a God besides me? And the word God there, Elohim, emphasizes strength and might. Is there one who is as strong and mighty as God? No. There's no one else. But God's people would not trust him. God wanted his people to trust him. He wanted his people to look to him, to wait upon him. to find their strength in him, to find their hope in him. He's telling us the same thing This isn't just a word for ancient Israel 2700 years ago. This is God's word to us today, and He's telling us I am your King. I am your Redeemer. I am your Maker. I am your Defender. I am your Deliverer. I am the only one who is the beginning and the end. The Almighty, do not be afraid and do not give your heart and your allegiance. to anyone or anything else. All created things are under my control. You can and must trust me. God says don't be afraid because it's fear that so often leads us to trusting in lesser things. The more afraid we are, the more tempted we are to not trust in the God we can't see, even though we know He's Almighty. And to trust instead in things that we can see, even things that we think we can control, even though they're lesser. Because we think, yeah, God's God, and I know He's got the whole eternal life thing figured out, and I know He's got a place secured for me in heaven, but I've got to get this bill paid and so I need to do this thing that I know is not quite right or I am just so tired I want some stress relief and so I'm going to indulge in this pleasure that I know is not right or whatever it is that we're going to look for because we're overwhelmed. And instead of going to the rock that is higher than we are, we go to the enslaving things that are less than we are. To challenge his people to trust in him, right in the middle of verses six to eight and verse seven, God says, Who is like me? Let him proclaim it, let him declare and set it before me, since I appointed an ancient people. Let them declare what is to come and what will happen. Here he's saying, if you have gods that you think are gods, Here's my challenge. Let them declare what is going to happen, and let's see if it happens. I've already told you what I'm going to do. In two weeks, Mike's going to be preaching on Cyrus That's the latest display that God gives them. I'm going to name the guy who's going to put you back in the land 125 plus years from now. But throughout the history of his dealings with his people, God had told them what he was going to do, and then he did it. When Abraham and Isaac and Jacob were strangers in the land of Israel, they were just nomadic herdsmen. They didn't own anything until Abraham bought a piece of land, a cave and a field to bury Sarah in. They didn't own anything. God said, I'm going to give you all this land. And it was 450, 500 years before it happened, but it happened. God told Moses he was going to bring his people out of Egypt and he did it. God told Joshua how the walls of Jericho were going to fall, and they did. He told Hezekiah how he was going to defeat the Assyrian army before they could even lay siege to Jerusalem, and he did it. And now through the prophet Isaiah he's foretelling how he's going to bring his people back from Babylon years before they're even in exile and well over a century before they return. Now Bible critics of course make fun of all these things. They say, oh, there's no real prediction. All of these things were written after the fact, and then they went back and wrote it in. Do you understand that if that's what happened Then this challenge God issues here in Isaiah 44 would be meaningless. If it wasn't known, if it wasn't well known that God had spoken these things before they came to pass, then it would have been Meaningless. If this wasn't already in the possession of Israel long before Cyrus comes along, then the challenge is meaningless. What about the world predictions? I remember for years, wh when I was young, I have a confession to make. When I was a teenager, and even into my early twenties. I I was fascinated with what was on the cover of the supermarket tabloids. I just thought it was so funny. So I'd stand there in the checkout line and I would just I would just read all the I wouldn't usually pick them up in flip through them or or buy any, but I just thought it was fascinating what kinds of things made the covers of the supermarket tabloids. And I remember every year for years the psychic would make their predictions and they'd be on the cover of the supermarket to I have no idea if they do that anymore because I don't pay any attention to that. But I know for years it was you know, all these predictions. And so sometimes I would get a little bit curious and say, I wonder what they're predicting for this year. And here's what I know, none of their predictions ever came to pass. They made a lot of money, had a lot of people calling them and talking to them, but none of their predictions ever came to pass. And you know the prognosticators in the world of sports and economics, they don't do much better Even though they have more data and analysis to form the basis of their predictions, I'm going to hurt some feelings here, but just remember that at the beginning of this season, the Orioles were actually one of the favorites to win the American League and reach the World Series. And they were certainly going to do as least at least as good as they did last year Last year, they weren't even supposed to have a winning season, much less win 110 games and be have the best regular season record in the American League. But also this year, we were definitely supposed to have a massive recession. Before that, we were definitely supposed to hit a major recession the first half of last year. None of these things have come to pass. Because people can't see the future. But 4,000 years ago, think about that. 4,000 years ago God called an elderly, childless couple to follow him, and he promised that they would have as many descendants as the stars in the sky. and that every nation on earth would be blessed through their offspring. Truly absurd, the kind of prediction It would be more absurd than someone claiming the Chicago White Sox are going to win the World Series next year. They set the record for the most losses ever this year. Those of you who don't know sports. But here's God taking this old couple without children, and here we are on the other side of the world 4,000 years later. And I know I grew up singing, Father Abraham had many sons. Many sons had Father Abraham I am one of them, and so are you. I like to embarrass my teenage children. But all over the world, millions and millions of people in every nation of the earth say, yes, Abraham is the father of the faith, and we are children of Abraham because of Christ. The chosen offspring of Abraham, who has brought the blessing of Abraham to all the nations. 4,000 years. God predicted it and it happened. Hundreds of years before Jesus was born, God foretold that the promised one would be the offspring of Abraham from the tribe of Judah, a descendant of King David. born in Bethlehem to a virgin girl, that he would bring God's light to Galilee of the Gentiles, that he would speak in parables, that he would teach with unmatched wisdom, that he would open the eyes of the blind, that he would set free those oppressed by demons, that he would be betrayed by a close friend who broke bread with him, that he would be unjustly condemned, that he would be rejected by the leaders of God's people, that he would be beaten beyond recognition, that he would be lashed pierced in his hands and feet, be agonizingly thirsty, die and be buried in a rich man's tomb before seeing again the light of life, and the will of God would prosper in his hands. That's about twenty things That were foretold about Jesus hundreds of years before he was born. And we have them written down In the Old Testament, foretold, some of them by Moses, some by David, some by Isaiah, Micah, and the other prophets. God alone. is the unmatched sovereign ruler over the world. If we just thought about all the things that God had to be in control of for all the prophecies about Jesus to come true, we would chill a little bit and trust God He knows what he's doing. When Galatians says, in the fullness of time, God brought forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. That, born of a woman, ties all the way back to Genesis 3. 15 and that promise. Born under the law, ties back into all the ways that he was foretold by Moses, and he also submitted to the law. God is in control of everything He works all things according to the counsel of his will, and he is our king and our redeemer. What do we need idols for? The idols are useless. God not only mocks the idols as useless, but he also mocks those who make them and those who trust in them. That's in the passage in Isaiah 44. It's also in Psalm 115. Right? They have eyes but they can't see, they have ears but they can't hear. Those who make them are like them, and so are all who worship them. The maker of the idol, the idol itself, the worshipper of the idol are all mocked by God for their complete impotence. They can't do a thing. But we love making idols. We're good at it. We do it all the time. Part of it's because we're made in the image of God And being made in the image of God, people are really creative and really good at creating some pretty impressive things. Some of the temples that were made to idols in the ancient world are some of the most astounding feats of engineering and architecture when you consider they had no power tools and no major machinery and and the way they were able to build things is just astounding. And and the things that people are capable of doing today is astounding. But what we do is we take man-made creations and we invest them with divine power and authority. We bow down to them, we trust them in our hearts, we look to them. But God says even the man who's making the idol Loses his strength. He becomes hungry. His strength fails. He drinks no water and becomes faint. If the Maker of your God If someone who gets hungry and thirsty and tired, then how good is that God going to be for you? How different from the one true God in Isaiah 40, verses 28 to 31, where we read, have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord, Yahweh, is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might, he increases strength. Even youths shall faint and be weary. And young men shall fall exhausted, but those who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings like eagles, they shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. I heard in the news recently that Banks, Wall Street banks, are beginning to limit the hours that junior bankers can work. J. P. Morgan has restricted junior bankers to working no more than 80 hours a week. Bank of America is now requiring junior bankers to give a more careful accounting of how they're spending their work time to make sure they're not working more than they need to. These changes were sparked by the death of a 35-year-old Bank of America associate who died from a blood clot after working several consecutive 100-hour weeks. Why? Why are these bankers pushing themselves to unhealthy exhaustion and even risking their lives at a young age because they need to advance their careers by making just a little bit better return on the investments they're managing. And that requires sacrifice. And here's one of the keys to identifying idols in your life. Idols always require sacrifice. And they promise a better reward in exchange for the sacrifice And the more you sacrifice, the more they promised. But they never keep their promise. And it's as foolish as a person who takes this block of wood and says, Okay, I got this cedar tree, been watching over it for 25 years. It's finally mature, ready to be harvested. I've chopped it down, I've cut it up, I've brought in the wood. Okay, honey, let's be real careful here, okay? This is the pile for burning And this is the one for bowing down and worshiping. Let's not get them confused because we don't want to throw our God in the fire. It's absurd. Like firewood, false god. Baking, bowing But that's the nature of idolatry. Why? Why would he bow down before Wood? Because He believes the false promises of the false God. Idols demand sacrifices, idols make promises They make promises. One of the clearest manifestations of idolatry to see from the outside is can be seen in the in the uh cycle of addiction. If you understand how addiction works at all, it really is um Idolatry. Because at the beginning, there's something that makes a promise. Here's what I mean by a promise. You have had such a hard day, you just need to take the edge off. Just have a couple of drinks to take the edge off and relax. There's nothing inherently wrong with that. Or it's been a really stressful week. It's been hard. Saturday morning, there's nothing on the calendar. How about a little bit of retail therapy? Let's go shoe shopping. Or I just love following my sports team. It just gives me a great escape from the pressures of life and the reality of the world. It just I get to get caught up in it and it's wonderful and it just gives me such joy vicariously. But addiction, you can become addicted gambling. Oh man, there's $400 and some million dollars or something like that available if I just buy a ticket? I could win it. And if I win it, all my problems are solved. Wow. That would be so great. Just do a little deep dive on people who have actually won the lottery and what happened to them. But there's promises being made, promises of relaxation, of rest, of of prosperity. And their sacrifice. It might just be a few dollars for a lottery ticket, or it might be some time away from your family, or it might be getting hooked on something. But what happens is there's a diminishing return and then there's a demand for more sacrifice in order to get the return. So at first a couple of drinks takes the edge off, and then that doesn't really work anymore, and so you have to drink until you're actually intoxicated. to forget about the stress of your day and then you're just getting through the day and waiting for the time when you can start drinking. Or you're getting on online gambling. Heard on the news this past week there's a lawsuit being filed against Draft Kings. And apparently they have very sophisticated tactics for preying on gambling addicts. They can identify, they can identify two types of people through their algorithms. One, if you're a very good gambler and you win a lot, they kick you off the site. And two, if you're an addict and they know that you can't stay away, they keep giving you free promotions and offers and special deals and special privileges to keep you coming away. back. They get fifty percent of their revenue from five percent of their gamblers. I may be stepping on some toes, but I don't think there's any way we can deal with idolatry without naming names and getting real about it. We all are tempted to look for something that we can only ultimately get in God and to look for it from something created. When we sang, Jesus, there's no one like you, the bridge, that last refrain, all we have, all we need, all we want is you. And you might be thinking, well, I want all sorts of other things besides God Not at the deepest level. Because what your soul really wants is joy, peace, life. And those things are ultimately and eternally found in God. And so when we're chasing after the wind, when we're sacrificing in order to get something of more of this world, then we're actually what we really want is God and our desires have been misdirected. So How do we know if something's become an idol? Because many things that God has given us that can become idols are in and of themselves good things. Work is a good thing. Being responsible with your finances so that you can save and invest and provide for your family and all that, that's good things. Going on a family vacation and being able to enjoy God's blessing. That's a good thing. I'm not here to say, you know, you have to live this absolute, you know monkish existence of just live in a stone uh cell and eat nothing but bread and drink nothing but water. That's not what God says in his word. God is good to us. God delights to be good to us. But how do we know If it's idolatry. Well, I think we all have those things in the back of our mind that we're nagging, like, is this becoming too important to me? So here's some questions you can ask. Is this becoming too important to me? What is it promising me? What is it costing me? And am I trusting in this thing for something that I really need to be trusting God for What is it promising me? What is it costing me? And am I trusting in this thing for something that I really need to be trusting God for? And here's another reality of it. The reason why we trust in creative things sometimes is because we think we can control them. And sort of make them give us what we uh idolatry, pagan idolatry is a very transactional. It's if you sacrifice this, you will get this benefit. God doesn't work that way. God cannot be made to do our will. Prosperity Gospel, which is a totally false gospel, will tell you that Christianity works that way. You just make your confession of faith, you just name it and claim it, and God will give you your heart's desire. They even misquote scripture like, delight yourself in the Lord, and he'll give you the desires of your heart, misunderstanding the entire meaning of scripture. God cannot be forced to do our will. And we need to be honest enough to say there are times where we're like, I know you've promised me good things, God, but I need this now in this way, and you're not coming through for me. And we need to be honest to say, wait a minute, what am I doing? I'm telling God what I need. And I'm telling God when I need it. And I'm telling God how I need it. Why am I doing that? Do I think he doesn't know? Or do I think he doesn't care? Or do I think he's unable to do what he knows I need? Am I willing to trust? Am I willing to say, Lord, not my will but yours be done? You are in control. You are good. You are wise. You are powerful. I trust you. There are good things, and so you may wrestle with this and say, well, here's something that God's given me that's good. How can I be a wise and faithful steward of it and not allow it to become an idol? Well, here's a different set of questions to ask. Why did God entrust this thing to me? How can I glorify and enjoy him in it? And what would I do if he took it away? If you want to be a faithful steward, because there's good things, you want to be a faithful steward and not an idolater, why did God give this good thing to me? Why do I have the job that I have? Why do I make the income that I make? Why do I have the opportunities that I have? What is God wanting me to do with this? How can I glorify and enjoy Him with this? And the answer isn't always give it all to the church or to missions. That's not always the answer, although that is probably more often the answer than what we think of But some and sometimes God does want to bless you. Sometimes God gives you an unexpected gift because he wants you to do something enjoyable and to enjoy it. But we need to be responsible and we need to say, the Lord gives, the Lord takes away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And we need to confess that at the heart of idolatry, I think, is our desire to want to be in control. We want to have our way. And everything on our culture thrives on that. Our culture is the most idolatrous, encouraging culture. Have it your way. You know, you deserve a break today. You do you. You take some me time, you know And so we need to worship the one true God. And we'll find in the one true God not an easy life, not necessarily an outwardly prosperous life. Not a long life, but we will find real life. We will find real joy. And at the end of the day, we need to make sure that we are worshiping the one true God and that the one true God is the God we're worshiping. Because that's the other form of idolatry, very quickly. There's two basic forms of idolatry. One is Worshiping as God that which is not God. Well, that's really the general definition of idolatry. Worshiping as God that which is not God. But there's two ways we can manifest that. One is false gods, taking created things. And over over-investing in them, over-trusting them, over-reliance upon them, looking for them to give us things that only God can give us. The other way we do it is by modifying God to suit our desires, so that it ends up that the God we're worshiping is not the one true God of the Bible. Here's an example of that. There was a woman I heard about this past week who was challenged to read the Old Testament by her pastor. She had never read it So she took some time and she read through the whole Old Testament. And she came back to her pastor and she said, I read the whole Old Testament, and that is not my God. My God would never do those things. And her pastor said, I think that you've just spoken more truth than you know. And you're actually in a really good place right now. Why don't you read it again? And so she went back, thankfully, she took her pastor's advice, she went back and she read it again, and she realized She had created a God in her own image. She had picked all the nice feel-goody things, the verses that go on calendars. And they say, that's my God. And then judgment, wrath, repentance. That's not my God. Well, if that's not your God, then you're worshiping your imagination. And so we need the one true God. And sometimes we need Him to confront us in love and call us to turn away from our idolatry, because He loves us too much. To let us be contented with our idols. He's promised us. What has he promised us? Abundant eternal life in Jesus. True forgiveness for all of our sins. Adoption into his family as his children and heirs, a mission and a purpose in this life that impacts eternity, and his loving presence to be with us in everything he calls us to endure. Think about how much better that is than anything they're selling on Amazon. All of your sins forgiven, adopted as a child of God, made his heir forever, given life that never ends in Christ. Given the hope of the resurrection. Given a mission and a purpose in this life, to share the gospel, to glorify God, to enjoy Him, given His presence in us, with us, for us, in everything. When we see that, we'll realize that the freedom that we need is actually a freedom that only comes from surrender. A freedom that says, I surrender control of my life into your hands, O Lord. That doesn't mean being irresponsible. That doesn't mean we take our hands off the steering wheel on the drive home. Because God says you're responsible. But we surrender this desire to control. And we lay down our list of demands and expectations and we really trust the Lord. We trust his heart, we trust his wisdom, we trust his timing. And we trust his will. And from a heart that is surrendered to him, we worship. In spirit and in truth, gathered together on Sunday mornings, but on our own, every day of the week, we worship by saying, God, you are my God. I have no good apart from you. I have set the Lord always before me, because He is at my right hand. I will not be moved. You are my King, you are my Redeemer, you are my protector. I will trust you. Whatever comes Help me to trust you whatever comes. That's freedom. That will lead to what the world promises but can't deliver. Real joy and real peace that is grounded in who God is. He never changes. Let's pray. Father, you are our King and our God and our rock. Jesus, there is no one like you. No one else can save us. No one else can give us what we most truly need, what we were created for. Holy Spirit. Draw our hearts to repent of our idols and trust in Christ. For the glory of God and the good of your church, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.