Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Home. Presbyterian Church. We come today to question number 16, and we're considering this question of what kind of mediator do we need? And we had a question about it last time, and we're going to be continuing with that question. What kind of mediator do we need to settle the debt of justice owed? Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to him today. Father in heaven, you are so good, so wise, so holy, so wonderful. Please teach us today from your word. Please move in our hearts by your Holy Spirit. Please impress the truth upon our minds and help us to love Jesus better from the heart. We pray this all in his name. Amen. So last time we were looking at question number 15, and question number 15 is asking, what kind of mediator and deliverer must we seek? We're sinful. We can't save ourselves. Um But there is divine justice that must be satisfied. And so it could be satisfied by us or by another, and the it can't be us, and it can't be an animal or any other kind of mere creature. So what kind of mediator and deliverer must we seek? This was our last question last time. One who is a true and righteous man. And yet, more powerful than all creatures, that is one who is at the same time true God. So we need one who is true man and true God. And you might say, well why? Why is that the qualifications? That's what we're going to get into with today's question sixteen and then the next question for next week 17. So that this actually takes us, as you can see, it from Lord's Day 5 to Lord's Day 6. So we've moved to kind of the next set of questions. These questions for Lord's Day 6 are more truly and properly focused on Jesus as the uniquely qualified mediator. So question 16 asks, why must he be a true and righteous man? And the answer is, he must be a true man, because the justice of God requires that the same human nature which has sinned should pay for sin. He must be a righteous man, because one who himself is a sinner cannot pay for others. So two parts to this answer of why he has to be a true man. The justice of God says, man has sinned. See, human beings were made uniquely in the image of God, and we are put in a unique position under God over creation with a unique responsibility. of this vice regency being vice regents over creation. We have the responsibility. Adam sinned and brought sin into the world. It's a human problem, a human responsibility. So the same human nature which has sinned should pay for sin. But a sinner, someone who is himself a sinner, cannot pay for others. He could die for his own sin. But he can't die for the sin of others. So where do we see this in Scripture? Well, one of the key places we see it is in Romans 5 Romans 5 says, Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. That's setting up the problem. Romans 5. 12 is talking, of course, about Adam, the one man through who sinned and brought death to everyone, because we were all in Adam, and therefore we all sinned. And then verse 15 says But the free gift is not like the trespass, for if many died through the one man's trespass, much More have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man, Jesus Christ, abounded for many. So it's a man, a one man, one designated man, the head of humanity, the representative man, Adam, who sinned and brought death through sin into the world because we were all in Adam and we all sinned in Adam. Jesus comes along as another one man, singular, unique. He's the God-man, he's the mediator, he's the new Adam, he's the second representative man. And he, by his obedience, brings the free gift of grace that abounds to many. That's Romans 5, 12, and 15. First Corinthians 15, 21 puts it this way, for as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. Man brought death into the world. Man overthrows death in the world through the resurrection. The first Adam brought us into death. The second Adam, the last Adam, the Lord Jesus Christ, brings us out of death. into eternal life. Hebrews 2, 14 to 16 puts it this way. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, He himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil. and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps. but he helps the offspring of Abraham. So here Hebrews is making the argument that because we have a true human nature, we share in flesh and blood. If Jesus is going to represent us, if Jesus is going to bring us help, if Jesus is going to be our mediator and our deliverer, he has to be like us. And he became like us in every way. He partook of the same things, the same flesh and blood that we have. Jesus was a real man. He didn't just appear as someone who was like a ghost who manifested himself in the world, no. He was a true man with flesh and blood, so that through his human body, through his human nature, He could destroy the one who has the power of death. That is the devil. How does he do that? By entering into death, Jesus destroyed death from the inside. He overthrew death from the inside. And he brings help to us. And I love the way Hebrews 2. 15 describes us. He delivers all those who, through fear of death, were subject to lifelong slavery. We sin. And a lot of what drives us to sin is our fear of death. We're held under slavery because we fear death, and in that fear we do all sorts of selfish and despicable things. out of fear, but Jesus sets us free from all that. And the only way he could set us free from all that was by becoming a true man. But not just any kind of a true man, a righteous man. A righteous man. 1 Peter 3. 18. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous. That he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit. Jesus is the righteous one who dies for the unrighteous. Because if he had his own sin, he'd have to die for his own sin. But being without sin himself, Jesus is the only person who never deserved death. You know, some people say, why do bad things happen to good people? Well the real answer to the question of why do bad things happen to good people is that only happened one time. And he volunteered. He laid down his life for us, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Why do bad things happen to good people? The bad things of our sin happened to the good man Jesus Christ, that he might bring us to God, that he might suffer for our sins. And that is the gospel. That is the good news of our salvation. So again, our catechism question for today is, why must he be a true and righteous man? He must be a true man. Because the justice of God requires that the same human nature which has sinned should pay for sin. He must be a righteous man, because one who himself is a sinner cannot pay for others. Let's pray. Oh Father, what love, what absolute amazing love that you would send your only begotten Son, your one and only Son. who would take on a true human nature, he would take on flesh and blood, just like we have, yet without sin, so that he could be a righteous man, fulfilling all the requirements of the law, fulfilling all righteousness for us. And then go to the cross and take all of our sin upon himself, that he might bring us to God, the righteous for the unrighteous. What a gift. What salvation. We thank you for Jesus, our Savior, and it's in his name we pray. Amen Amen. Well, as we've been doing, let's respond to the truth of God's word and the truth of the gospel by worshiping our God together. Oh secret now. With grief and shame away down now scornfully surrounded with Call thy ground O sacred had glory march till now. Was I yet though despite and go with me? I tried to come demand. What thou my alone has? Was all thinner came my mind was not transcribed. Ver dying pain, the might say. And granted. I want to thank me for his time. Thy team wave doubt and will make me thy voice and short. The joy cannot. I be so can of the choice be thy win in thy body. I thus with the O Lord of Life, he thy Glory now to see Bide the cross expiring and free myself. I wouldn't have to do it.