Good morning. Isaiah chapter twenty-eight is where we are this morning in God's Word. We are going to be focusing in in a very particular way on verse 16, but we're going to be looking at verses 14 to 22. To get the context for this call, this promise, this invitation, this truth This is the word of God, Isaiah 28, verse 14 to 22. Therefore, hear the word of the Lord. You scoffers who rule this people in Jerusalem. Because you have said, we have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol we have an agreement When the overwhelming whip passes through, it will not come to us, for we have made lies our refuge, and in falsehood we have taken shelter. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion a stone. A tested stone, a precious cornerstone of a sure foundation. Whoever believes will not be in haste. And I will make justice the line, and righteousness the plumb line, and hail will sweep away the refuge of lies. And waters will overwhelm the shelter. Then your covenant with death will be annulled and your agreement with Sheol will not stand when the overwhelming scourge passes through. You will be beaten down by it. As often as it passes through you, it will take you. For morning by morning it will pass through by day and by night, and it will be sheer terror to understand the message. For the bed is too short to stretch oneself on, and the covering too narrow to wrap oneself in. For the Lord will rise up as on Mount Perazim, as in the valley of Gibeon. He will be roused to do his deed. Strange is his deed, and to work his work, alien is his work. Now therefore, do not scoff Lest your hands be made strong, for I have heard a decree of destruction from the Lord God of hosts against the whole land. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are the one true God. The first and the last, the creator and sustainer of all things, and the only rock that will stand when judgment comes Father, I pray that each of us here this morning would hear your voice speaking to us through your word, that we might respond and believe Because whoever believes will not be in haste. Help us not to make excuses. Help us not to be dismissive, help us not to minimize, help us not to deflect, but soften our hearts, open our ears, prepare our minds to receive And to believe. Do this by the power of your Holy Spirit, who alone gives faith and life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Even if you're seated. Well, in our recent sermon series in Isaiah, we've had some passages that have prompted some important questions that we've been asking. A few weeks ago we were asking the question, what is your driving passion? And last week we asked the question, what crown are you chasing? These questions were aimed at uncovering what's driving our lives. our values, our decision making. Today we have a different question, and it's related to these others, and the question is, what is holding you? What is holding you up? What is holding you fast? On what are you standing? Where is your security? Where is your foundation when storms come? Jesus himself taught us. About this in Matthew chapter 7. If you live life in this world, you know that storms come. Amen? People die, people get sick, people end up in the hospital, marriages have conflict and strife, jobs are lost. There are storms in this life. But let me tell you something Isaiah 28 isn't just talking about the storms that happen in this life. Those are real and they happen. But Isaiah 28 is talking about the coming storm. From which there will be no escape, because it will be universal. And I think that is what Jesus has in mind as well in Matthew 7. So, yes, the storms of life, but even more so the coming storm of judgment. This is what Jesus said in Matthew 7. Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them. will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall. Because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand, and the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. I know many of us have been through storms recently, are in the midst of storms right now, have storms that are coming in life. And those small storms are a way of testing, a way of testing what's the foundation of your life, a way of testing what are you really standing on, what are you really holding on, and what is holding you Someone recently challenged me, and they wanted to know what difference Jesus would really make in their lives. They basically said to me. If I were to believe, I don't see how that would really change anything in my life. Everything would still be the same. And so I thought about it. And I sent this person ten ways that Jesus makes a difference in my life. Number one, I know I was personally and lovingly created by God. Fearfully and wonderfully made, knitted together in my mother's womb. Number two, I know I am completely forgiven of all of my sins. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Number three, I know my life has purpose, even if I don't know all the details, because all the days ordained for me were written in his book before I lived a single one of them. Number four, when I'm at my lowest, he comforts me as no one else can. He is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed. Number five, I regularly read truth in the Bible that directly applies to my life and my struggles. His word is a lamp unto my feet and a light for my path. Number six, I have real help and hope to offer to others who are going through difficult times. God comforts us in our afflictions so that we can comfort others with the comfort with which we have been comforted by God. Number seven, I know that the good in my life is not just an accident, but a loving gift. Every good and perfect gift comes down from the Father of light, with whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. Number eight, the bad in my life is not accidental or tragic, but it is purposely and lovingly intended for my good, which makes it bearable. God is indeed working all things together for my true and eternal good in Christ, and I know that even when I can't see it. Number nine, I have someone in my life I can always talk to because there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. And number 10, I am privileged to be part of the most important thing that is happening in the world. The Great Commission to take the gospel to the nations and see the kingdom of God spread to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation is the purpose of human history. And I get to be part of that. Ten things. And that got me thinking, why is it that I so often don't live in the full light of the reality of these ten truths? Why is it that so many of God's people don't daily experience the joy and the freedom that these ten truths ought to bring to our lives every day? As a pastor, it is my heart's desire to see God's people living in the freedom and the joy and the purpose and the strength that come because Christ died and rose again for us. So why aren't we? I think the real answer to this question Is that while we profess these things to be true, we affirm them with our minds, we are not daily, actively building our lives on the cornerstone of Christ. You see, a cornerstone is that which everything in the building rests upon it and aligns to it. Or it's not the cornerstone And so I thought are we spending time in God's Word every day as we should? Are we thanking him for every good and perfect gift he gives as a personal gift? Are we clinging to him and crying out to him in the midst of our trials? Or are we turning to other helps and other things to either distract us or simply numb the pain? And do we really see the Great Commission as the greatest thing that's happening in the world? Or are we too distracted by sports and politics and a hundred other lesser things? So today, as we reflect on Isaiah 28, it is my prayer that the Lord would be pleased to strengthen our trust in this precious cornerstone. And that the Spirit would move in our hearts to more fully cause us to rest on and rely on who Christ is and who Christ is in us as children of God and as the Church of Jesus Christ. Christ. But before we get there, we need a little bit of background. So let's see how this is introduced in verses 14 and 15. Therefore, hear the word of the Lord, you scoffers, who rule this people in Jerusalem. Because you have said, We have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol we have an agreement. When the overwhelming whip passes through, it will not come to us, for we have made lies our refuge, and in falsehood we have taken shelter. Who is Jeremiah, who is Isaiah addressing here? Isaiah is addressing here those who rule in Jerusalem. Now last week, if you were paying attention at all, Isaiah was talking about the people who rule in the northern kingdom, in Samaria, in Ephraim. And what was interesting was all of that was really a setup for this turn to the people who rule in Jerusalem. Because Isaiah said all sorts of, you know uh condemning things and convicting things about those people up there in northern Israel and how they were drunkards and how they were drunk with power and with pleasure. and how they were chasing after other things and God was going to judge them. And you know, if if you're human and someone has been a rival of yours or an enemy of yours, You take a sort of delight in watching them lose. Look, we all do it, okay? When the Orioles got swept in the first round of the playoffs, it was disappointing, but it was comforting to know that the Yankees didn't even make the playoffs. It was, right? I mean come on, let's get real, right? So the attitude here is, oh yeah, those northern people, they are, you're right, Isaiah, drunkards. debauched, terrible, and remember how it ended, how they wouldn't hear the word of the Lord, but to them the word of the Lord was You know, little by little, bit by bit, precept upon precept, line upon line, yada yada yada, the ABCs, don't want to hear it, heard it all before. Well, we have a therefore at the beginning of verse 14, which tells us whenever you see a therefore, it's telling you, this is the real point of everything that came before. Therefore, this is the real point of it. And it's therefore hear the word of the Lord, you scoffers who rule this people in Jerusalem. Uh-oh. Now he done quit preaching and start messing. It's okay we can talk about those people up there, but now you're talking about us. You're calling us scoffers. You know what a scoffer is? A scoffer is like, heard that before. Yeah, I know it. Sure. And then he has this quote from them, which I think a lot of people misunderstand as in studying this week. I think even a lot of uh Bible scholars and teachers I think misunderstand the sarcasm. And the irony that's here in verse 15, right? Because you have said, quote, we have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol we have an agreement. When the overwhelming wit passes through, it will not come to us, for we have made lies our refuge, and in falsehood we have taken shelter. Now, we need to understand that's not literally what they were saying No one would actually say that. We're safe. We have a shelter of lies. Yay! Right? But they did have a shelter of lies. They had a covenant. They didn't know it was a covenant with death, but it actually was a covenant with death. What does he mean? Well, Southern Judah and Jerusalem thought they were safe because they were the ones that lived On the border of the great Egyptian kingdom, and they had made an alliance with Pharaoh of Egypt Actually, for Israel, this goes back hundreds and hundreds of years. Like, we are, we're okay, because we've made a covenant with Pharaoh. Do you know how many chariots that guy has? And he's right in our backyard, and those Assyrians get too close. Mmm, Pharaoh's going to come on out. Well, when Assyria did get too close, Pharaoh didn't come on out. And in fact, Assyria had cleared out all of the fortified cities in Judah, and they had zeroed in on Jerusalem, and they were closing in for the kill when the Lord showed up. And in one night wiped out 185,000 of the Assyrian soldiers, and the Assyrians turned tail and ran. But after that, of course The people of Jerusalem said, How foolish we were to rely on Pharaoh, we will now trust in the Lord No. They said, oh, Pharaoh's not so reliable. Where else can we look? Oh, Babylon. Hey, hey, Babylonian envoys, come on into Jerusalem. Let me show you. Hezekiah, the very king who was rescued. We'll get to this in a few weeks or probably in the spring sometime. But He's they won't give up trusting in international political alliances. And Isaiah mocks that and says, this is a covenant with Death. This is a refuge of lies. He's mocking their earthly political trust. And here's the message for us. Anytime we build our lives on anything other than the Lord Jesus Christ, we are making a covenant with death. If we find our core identity as Americans, or middle class suburbanites, or college educated professionals or political conservatives or progressives, or if we find our security in our financial portfolio or our retirement accounts or our real estate holdings or if we're staking our hope for the future on the outcome of the next election cycle, these are all false things. They're not God, they're not Jesus, and the more we rest the weight of our hope on those things, the more we're making a covenant with death because they will collapse. I guarantee it Everything in this world collapses. And so verse 16 comes in the light of that and says, therefore. There's another therefore. Why would he mock their trust in the Egyptians and the Babylonians? Because he wants them to hear this. Therefore, thus says the Lord God. Behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion a stone. A tested stone, a precious cornerstone of a sure foundation. Whoever believes will not be in haste. Now, there's a good rule for understanding the Bible, especially if you're reading the Old Testament and you're trying to understand what some Old Testament passage or verse means. The place to go first is not to a commentary or to some, you know, ask Google or go to ChatGPT. The place to go is if an Old Testament verse is quoted in the New Testament, go to where that's quoted in the New Testament and read that, because that's what it means to find this verse. Hopefully you know already the answer if you were paying attention to the worship service at all. 1 Peter 2. So turn with me to 1 Peter 2, and we'll find that Peter quotes This verse in verse 6. Give you the context, start in verse 4. As you come to him, that's Jesus. A living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious, you yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifice acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. It's Jesus. The tested and sure foundation cornerstone is Jesus. Peter then immediately goes on to quote, in verse 7 he's quoting Psalm 118. So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This verse, which is Psalm 118, verse 22, is actually one of the key verses in all the New Testament for explaining Jesus. Because the question was asked when the early church was proclaiming about Jesus that he's the Messiah. And he's the Lord. What people said was, wait a minute, no, no, wait a minute. We know who Jesus of Nazareth is. He's the one that was crucified. He was condemned under Pontius Pilate. The crowds shouted out, Crucify Him. All of the religious leaders in Jerusalem said, put him to death. How is he the Messiah? He was rejected. By the builders. Because the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. And not only that, if we go and see the context of this verse, we'll see how clearly it is about Jesus. Psalm 118, starting in verse 19, open to me the gates of righteousness that I may enter. Enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. Who said I am the gate? Who said I am the gate? This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. Which we can't understand that to mean the righteous are those who enter through it, through Jesus. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. Whose name means salvation? The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice. And be glad in it. The stone that the builders rejected, who's become the cornerstone, is Jesus. That's how the Lord has become our salvation. By being rejected by the builders, the stone that the Lord has chosen has become the cornerstone. How? Well Peter, I love this. The Bible sometimes puts things together that are so beautiful and ironic Peter in Acts chapter 4, Peter who denied Christ, Peter whose name means rock. Peter is standing before the Sanhedrin, the rulers in Jerusalem, the builders who rejected the stone, the very same group of guys And he's being put on trial for a crime. What's the crime that he's committed? He healed a lame man who was in the gate of the temple. What a crime. But he did so in the name of Jesus. The Jesus whom they had rejected and crucified. So here's where we pick up in Acts chapter 4. On the next day. When their rulers and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem with Annas the High Priest and Caiaphas and John and Alexander and all who were of the high priestly family. When they had set them in their midst, they inquired, By what power or by what name did you do this? It's Peter and John who were on trial here. Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders, If we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what means this man had been healed, let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him this man is standing before you well. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone, and there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. And I just love that we have a message to the builders, to the to the rulers in Jerusalem, telling them about the precious cornerstone, and then 800 years later almost, you have Peter standing in front of his generation of the rulers in Jerusalem, telling them about this precious cornerstone that was prophesied to them 800 years earlier, and they still don't Why didn't they get it? Do you know why the Gospels are pretty clear about this? Do you know why the builders rejected Jesus? Because they said, we have to kill him, or he will upset our place. He will upset our place. What did they mean by that? What they meant by that was that they had made a covenant with the Romans. to secure their country and guarantee them their place. Isaiah's talking to them about how foolish it was to make a covenant with Egypt. Don't trust in pagan powers. to secure you. And here they've trusted in pagan powers to secure them. The more things change, the more they stay the same. Well, we're too wise for that, right? We wouldn't trust in the things of the world to secure us, would we? Hmm They allowed pagan Rome to rule over them, and so that's what prompted them to miss out on the cornerstone. And whenever God's people look to other saviors, other security, other foundations than what God has provided, very bad things happen. But Jesus is the cornerstone Jesus is the foundation in Zion, a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone. Of a sure foundation. Whoever believes will not be in haste, or as Peter says, will not be put to shame. We'll see that that is a good understanding of what is being said. So let's think for a minute about this cornerstone. First, the Lord God Himself said that he is the one who laid as a foundation in Zion a stone. The fact that this stone was laid by the Lord God Himself is shown by the fact that God raised Jesus from the dead. God did that. God raised Jesus from the dead. It was no longer possible for death to keep its hold on him. And God, and God exalted him. To the right hand, to the throne above all thrones, to receive the name above all names as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. God did that. God raised him from the dead. God seated him at his right hand. God says, I have set In Zion. In Zion. Zion refers both to the heavenly Zion, which is the assemble of the redeemed saints made perfect, and also the earthly Zion. Jesus is the foundation. for the church, both the church militant that is still making its way through this world and is in living in a war zone. Remember I told you this life is a war zone? Jesus is the foundation for that war zone. He's also the foundation of that glorified church that's being assembled in heaven, that new Jerusalem that will be fully revealed when heaven and earth are brought together. And Jesus, when Jesus comes again. So he's laid in Zion. He's the cornerstone. That means if we belong to Jesus, we belong to his church. We're part of something bigger than ourselves. We come to him as living stones, and we're laid on the foundation of Jesus and we're built into a living temple. We have a place. We have a place where we fit. But it's in a building that is not of our design and construction. Let me say this as clearly as I can using this imagery. Jesus is the cornerstone. On which you can build your life, on which God is building his church If you rest on him and you align everything to him and you understand that you fit into what he is doing in the world. Jesus is not a decorative stone to enhance the building that you're building for your purposes. Jesus is not like, oh, he's a pretty stone that we'll put on the mantle above the fireplace to enhance the beauty of The house we're building. What does that mean? Sometimes people try to sell Christianity as a life enhancement program. Just come to Jesus and you'll have more happiness and peace and financial success and prosperity and a better career and you'll get everything you ever wanted. As if somehow Jesus is like a genie in the lamp you keep on the shelf and you just rub them with the right prayers and he's gonna bless. No, he's building his church. He's the foundation for his church, and he has invited us to be blessed, to rest on him, not him on us. If we try to rest him on us, what happens to us? We're crushed. But if we rest on him, We're safe. He's a tested stone. The book of Hebrews tells us how he was tested. He was tempted in every way just as we are, and yet was perfectly without sin. He learned obedience through the things that he suffered. And so he has become qualified to be the head of a new humanity. He is the perfect human righteousness and the eternal life that we need because he was tested in every way and passed every test. He is a precious cornerstone. Cornerstone, again, most vital stone in the building. It has to be strong and it has to be straight. It has to be strong enough to bear the weight. It has to be straight enough so that everything can be aligned to it and it'll be perfect. If Christ is the cornerstone of your life, then he bears the full weight of your life, and everything in your life is aligned to him. If Christ is truly the cornerstone of Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, then he bears the full weight of his church, and everything in his church must be aligned to him. Jesus said, whoever hears these words of mine and does them is like one who builds his house on the rock. To believe means that we will do. Verse 5, whoever believes will not be in haste. Everyone who believes in Jesus, everyone who And rests upon him alone for salvation, as he is offered in the gospel, will not flee in haste from before their enemies, will not be shaken and disturbed and terrified by Satan or sin or death or hell or the coming judgment, because we will always remain. We will not be in haste, we will not be put to shame. But we have to believe. And here's where we ask the question. Wait, Jesus said we have to do what he says. And Isaiah says we have to believe. Which is it? Is it faith? Or is it obedience? And I will simply say this You always act on what you really believe. Jesus said, out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. You always act on what you really believe. Not what you say you believe, but what you really believe. The obedience of faith is the expression that Romans uses. If you believe you do, right? And if we do out of belief, there is doing. It's not a matter of if I do these ten things, then I will have faith. No. We have faith, and so we act on that faith. And it's not the acting on the faith. It is the resting in Christ. It is the believing. It is the belonging. It is the standing on him and him alone. That secures us. How secure does it make us? Well, the end of Romans 8 tells us how secure it makes us. You guys know this is one of my favorite passages in all of Scripture. Romans 8, starting in verse 31, what then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies who is to condemn. Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword As it is written, for your sake, we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No. In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. He will hold me fast. The remainder of this passage, we're not going to really go into it, but it basically exposes how in judgment, if God sends judgment Nothing else works. The refuge of lies is exposed, the bed is too short to stretch oneself on, the covering too narrow to wrap oneself in. It just doesn't work. It comes up short. And so the final call is to hear the word of the Lord. Hear it. Receive it. Believe it. If you take your refuge in anything other than Christ, your refuge will not stand. If you want to wrap yourself in your self-righteousness, Tell yourself you're basically a good person, cause at least you know you're better than that guy If you want to wrap yourself in self-righteousness or hide yourself in the American dream or secure yourself with self-esteem or pop psychology or the latest business book bestseller, these things will fall apart and very quickly in the storm of God's judgment. Do not scoff at God's word. Receive it. Believe it. Trust in Jesus because Jesus alone never, ever. fails. Father, you've given us everything we need in your Son Jesus Christ our Savior. There is no one like him. There is no one who can stand against him. There is no one who can move him. There is no one who can oppose him. And if we are in Christ, we are safe Just as safe and secure as the church that is already in glory. If we trust in anything else, it will disappoint us. Show us what it means to live a life of faith To walk as redeemed children of God, to cling to the rock of our salvation through the storms of life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.