Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with us. It's Ascension Week here on the Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. We are looking at the questions related to the apostles' creed, statement that he ascended into heaven. And the Heidelberg Catechism does a really nice job among all the reformed creeds and confessions and catechisms. The Heidelberg Catechism does a nice job of really unpacking the ascension of Christ for us so that we understand what has happened, what has not happened, and how it benefits us. And so today we're looking at 48, and on Friday we'll be looking at 49. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for being our God, our Father. Thank you for Jesus, your Son, our Savior. who sits at your right hand, ever living to make intercession for us, and and is also everywhere present because he is the divine Son of God and who is with us. By your Holy Spirit, indwelling us and with your church. And Father, we pray that you would help us to understand these mysteries and to appreciate the strength and the hope and the comfort we have from these truths. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, this section on the ascension began. Uh last week with question 46 that we looked at last Friday. What do you confess when you say he ascended into heaven? Answer that Christ, before the eyes of his disciples, was taken up from the earth into heaven. and that he is there for our benefit until he comes again to judge the living and the dead. That's what happened in the ascension. But then the question is, 47, is Christ then not with us until the end of the world? as he has promised us. Answer. Christ is true man and true God. With respect to his human nature, he is no longer on earth. But with respect to his divinity, majesty, grace, and spirit, he is never absent from us. So We're looking at the ways in which Christ is absent from us in his human nature, in his resurrected body. He is at the right hand of God the Father. He is not with us. He's left us and he's coming back to us. And yet he hasn't left us With regard to his divinity, that is his godhood, his majesty, that is his reign as king, his grace, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, be with you, which is the most common benediction at the end of Paul's letters, and his spirit who is always with his church. So then today we come to question 48. But are the two natures in Christ not separated from each other if his human nature is not present wherever his divinity is? So this is getting at what is the relationship between the two natures of Christ. Christ is true God and true man, two distinct natures in one person forever. If we say that his human nature is not present on earth, So that he can't be physically present in the Lord's Supper, as we looked at last time. Is that mean that his, you know, his two natures are separated from each other? Answer. Not at all. For his divinity has no limits and is present everywhere. So it must follow that his divinity is indeed beyond the human nature which he has taken on, and nevertheless is within this human nature and remains personally united with it. This is a doctrine of the two natures of Christ that Calvin really recovered in the Reformation, but it was what many early church fathers held as the understanding of the two natures of Christ, and that is when Christ The eternal Son of God, God the Son, the second person of the Godhead, who is true God, when he took on a human nature He did not stop being God. And divinity has no limits and is present everywhere. Jesus didn't stop being God. And so his divinity is beyond his human nature, although it is truly united to his human nature in his person and is in his human nature. It is also at the same time beyond his human nature. So Christ has two natures in one person, but to limit his divine nature to being only where his human nature is would be to ungod him. But on the other hand, to say that his human nature, his body is present everywhere his godhood is would be to dehumanize him or superhumanize him. It would be to give him a human nature that is completely different. of a different type and nature altogether than our human nature. And we need a truly human representative before God. We need one who is true God and true man. And so there's a distinction, a distinction without separation between Christ's divine nature and his human nature, and that means his human nature is local. Is limited in that way. His human nature is not omnipresent. When he was when he appeared to the disciples in the upper room after the resurrection, he appeared and then he left. When he ascended into heaven, he is seated at the right hand of God the Father. He is coming again. His human nature, his body, is in one place. But of course he's truly God and never stopped being truly God, and so he is everywhere present. And this is what Scripture teaches. Jeremiah 23, 23 to 24, talks about the omnipresence of God. Am I a God at hand, declares the Lord, and not a God far away? Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him, declares the Lord? Do I not fill heaven and earth, declares the Lord. You see, this is the omnipresence of God. God is at hand and far away. You can't hide yourself in secret places because he fills heaven and earth. And another, Acts 7, 48 to 49, another about the omnipresence of God. Yet the Most High does not dwell in houses made by hands, as the prophet says, Heaven is my throne and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me, says the Lord, or what is the place of my rest? God didn't dwell within the temple on the Temple Mount, or God didn't dwell within the tabernacle, although he met with his people there, he cannot be contained. Heaven is his throne, earth is his footstool, he fills the heavens and the earth. Jesus is the incarnation of the fullness of deity. For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, says Colossians 2. 9. So Jesus is the incarnation of the deity in bodily form, for in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily. And yet We could say of Christ's body. He descended and then he ascended. Ephesians 4. 10. He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens. That he might fill all things. In his glory, in his majesty, this is his majesty. Jesus in his majesty rules over and fills all things. even though he is seated in one place at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. One more verse for today, and that's Hebrews 1. 3. This is really the opening of Hebrews is just so wonderful. It it packs a lot of theology, Christology into a very tight space. Verse 3 says, he is the radiance. of the glory of God. That means he's the outshining of God's own glory. That means he is true God. Just as the sunlight that comes out from the sun is the sun emanating. Jesus is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. This is actually a reference to his human nature as being the image of God. He's the exact imprint of his nature, the exact Imago Day And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. There's Godhood right there. After making purification for sins, which he had to do in his human nature, because only man can die. He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. Again, in his human nature, in his body, he is he is one place. He is sitting. at the right hand of the Majesty on high. And this is really exactly what we confess in the Apostles' Creed. So when Calvin recovered this doctrine He was actually recovering what we what we confess in the Apostles' Creed. If Christ's body, as the Roman Catholic Church teaches, if Christ's body is so omnipresent and so limitless that every bit of bread and every bit of wine ever shared in every mass or communion throughout the whole history of the church was transformed into the actual body and blood of Christ, well then he has an endless, limitless body and blood, which is not a true human nature. Or if the uh Lutheran understanding of the Lord's Supper is true and Christ is physically present in with and under the elements, even though the elements themselves don't become his body and blood, he's physically present. Well then he's physically present all over the world all at the same time as the church takes communion all over the world all at the same time. So he would have to be ubiquitous or omnipresent in his physical nature. But that is not what the Apostles' Creed says It says he ascended into heaven and he sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. Those lines, those statements of the Apostles' Creed are about the human nature of Christ. Christ, our Redeemer, the one who was born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and was buried. God, in his divine nature cannot begin to exist, he cannot die, right? He cannot move from one place to another because he's everywhere. So you have to make a distinction in the attributes There are attributes that belong to Christ's divine nature, and there are attributes that belong to his human nature, and while these two natures are united in one person, they are distinct, two distinct natures. Not separated, but two distinct natures in one person. You can't confuse the natures, nor can you separate them. And those are the really important boundaries for understanding that he is the God man, true God and true man, with a true divine nature and with a true human nature. And next time we'll see how that benefits us that he has a true human nature. But all of this comes really to the forefront when we consider the ascension of Christ, because In order to really be able to understand and appreciate and benefit from the ascension of Christ, it is important for us to wrestle with this sort of dense Christology that you might think is just very heady stuff. It's actually really, really important. It's really important that Christ is true God and true man in one person. So back to our catechism question 48. But are the two natures in Christ not separated from each other? If his human nature is not present wherever his divinity is? Answer Not at all For his divinity has no limits and is present everywhere. So it must follow that his divinity is indeed beyond the human nature which he has taken on. And nevertheless, is within this human nature and remains personally united with it. Let's pray. Oh Father, Lord Jesus, Holy Spirit Our God, three and one. At the heart of our faith are these profound divine mysteries that are mind-blowing. They could not have been dreamt up by the imagination of man because they are beyond our comprehension, and yet they are gloriously true and they are wonderfully helpful for us to receive and believe and trust in and rest on. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you are sitting at the right hand of God the Father, that you are ever-living to make intercession for us, that you are presenting your righteousness and your blood before the Father. On our behalf continually. And we also thank you that you are with us as our King. You are extending your grace to us, and your Spirit is ministering through us in us. among us. And so we thank you. We thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, it's good to think of things that are hard to think about because our Savior is so wonderful, and it's a reminder to us that He is in fact That wonderful. Let's respond to this truth by singing his praises together. The Lord is king Your Lord is king adore. Most souls give thanks and sing and show. Triumph ever lift up your heart Lift up your voice, rejoice again, I say, rejoice. Jesus the Savior raised the cord of truth and love when he had purchased Thou stays he too lift up your heart Lift up your voice rejoice again I say The kingdom cannot help heroes power and head. Jesus, death and helps us charging lift up your heart, lift up your voice, rejoice and yes. He sits that caught right here, still his oath serve me. And bow to his command and for me, hasty Let the heart, though pure voice rejoice. Again, I say we choices clouds how Jesus the truth. Shall go and take his servants up to ferret. Oh we soon shall hear our candles. With the shrimp of a shasta we should Lift up your voice, rejoice again I say reach.