Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you could join us. We're now in our 14th week. This does mean for our Acts Devotionals, this will be our final week in the book of Acts and then Lord willing next week we'll start into the book of Romans. So today on our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals we are looking at question number 38 Speaking specifically of how Christ suffered under Pontius Pilate. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. For the truth of your word, for the truth of your gospel. Thank you for the salvation that we have in Jesus Christ, your Son, our Lord. Would you please teach us today by your Holy Spirit? Spirit, through your word. Thank you for this catechism. Thank you for all that we're learning together as we walk through it. We pray that your blessing will be upon our lesson today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So once again, just as a reminder, we are in the section of the Heidelberg Catechism that deals with the Apostles' Creed. It's always a good time for a good copy, right? So we're in this section that goes all the way back to Question number 23, where we were asked, what are these articles? The articles of the Christian faith contained in the Apostles' Creed. And there are twelve of them, you see, divided up into three sections. I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate was crucified, dead, and buried, he descended into hell. On the third day he rose from the dead. He ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church. The communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. So we are in the fourth article, Suffered Under Pontius Pilate. We talked last time about what do you confess when you say that he suffered? During all the time he lived on earth, but especially at the end, Christ bore in body and soul the wrath of God against the sin of the whole human race Thus, by his suffering, as the only atoning sacrifice, he has redeemed our body and soul from everlasting damnation and obtained for us the grace of God. righteousness and eternal life. And today we look at question 38. Why did he suffer under Pontius Pilate as judge? Answer. Though innocent, Christ was condemned by an earthly judge, and so he freed us from the severe judgment of God that was to fall on us. So let's look at this together. Luke 23, verses 20 to 25. Jesus on trial under Pontius Pilate. Pilate addressed them once more. Desiring to release Jesus, but they kept shouting, Crucify Him, crucify him. A third time he said to them, Why, what evil has he done? I have found in him no guilt deserving death. I will therefore punish and release him But they were urgent, demanding with loud cries that he should be crucified, and their voices prevailed So Pilate decided that their demand should be granted. He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, for whom they asked. but he delivered Jesus over to their will. In this section in Luke's gospel, we see The transfer, the exchange. We are Barabbas. That's the picture of us. We deserve condemnation We are guilty of crimes against God that deserve the wrath and curse of God. Jesus is innocent. Pilate himself said, I have found in him no guilt deserving death. And yet, it was the will of God that Pilate should release Barabbas. and deliver Jesus over to their will because it was the will of God that Jesus would take the place of Barabbas. This is substitutionary atonement. We call this penal, substitutionary atonement. Penal meaning the penalty, the punishment. Substitution, Jesus substituted for us an atonement, the sacrifice that covers, that makes peace. Here's how 2 Corinthians 5. 21 puts it For our sake, he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. God the Father made Jesus to be sin who knew no sin so that in Jesus we might become the righteousness of God. It's not just that Jesus took our place, but he took our place for a particular reason, so that he would free us from the severe judgment of God that was to fall on us. The catechism will unpack this later to exactly what that means for us, but we are set free because he was condemned. We through him can become the righteousness of God. One more passage of scripture for today. Galatians chapter 3, 13, and chapter 4, 4 and 5. Galatians 3. 13, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree. And then chapter 4, verse 4 and 5, but when the fullness of time had come, God set forth his son. born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. This is the grace of God. This is the great exchange. This is penal substitutionary atonement. Christ is cursed so that we can be blessed Christ was put under the law to redeem those who are under the law, so that rather than being condemned, we might receive adoption as sons. And that's what our catechism question for today teaches us. Why did he suffer under Pontius Pilate as judge? Answer, though innocent. Christ was condemned by an earthly judge, and so he freed us from the severe judgment of God that was to fall on us. Amen. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you for such grace, such wonderful love. We thank you. that you took our place. You entered into judgment and were condemned unjustly, so that we might never enter into judgment and never be condemned. It's gloriously unfair, Lord Jesus, but you willingly took that place. And we are so thankful because we have no hope without it. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Well, we're going to respond to God's word today, as we always do, with worship. We're going to repeat one we've had a couple of times before, I think. Man of Sorrows, what a name. Because of a particular verse, in my place condemned he stood. Sealed my pardon with his blood. Hallelujah. What a savior. Let's sing this one together to the glory of God. We sing this old hymn together. Menos. What a name for the Son of God who came since Hallelujah was a ring shame. Scoffing room in my place couldn't he stood sealed my part with blessing. Hallelujah, what I say you see by Well this we started God works we can be We are wanna stay on the Darkens to my soul was seen. Evening fell, yet morning gray. Now it's not a state. When he comes glorious king, all his own to break in night. So we don't see Hallelujah. We are always saying you What a day go Hallelujah where we are, what they go. It's good news, amen.