Well, we just sang that we want to hear from God the wonderful words of life. And we believe that the entire Bible, the whole of Scripture, are the wonderful words of life. They teach us About God and who He is and about what He calls us to. They teach us faith and duty. They show us the beauty of Christ and of God our Father. Even Those more challenging passages like the one we come to today. Isaiah, we're going to read three chapters today, Isaiah 18 through 20. Now before you think, oh no, eighteen and twenty are very short chapters. Um it's really more like one and a half to two. But they're all one theme and one topic, and that is this is the word that God gave concerning Cush and E. Egypt. And we'll find out why God is speaking to Judah about Cush and Egypt. And And what meaning that had to them, as well as why it is that we need to hear this word today. But this is the word of God. Isaiah chapter 18. Ah, land of whirring wings that is beyond the rivers of Cush, which sends ambassadors by the sea in vessels of papyrus on the waters. Go, you swift messengers, to a nation tall and smooth, to a people feared near and far, a nation mighty and conquering, whose land the rivers divide. All you inhabitants of the world, you who dwell on earth, when a signal is raised on the mountains, look, when a trumpet is blown, hear. For thus says the Lord to me. I will quietly look from my dwelling like clear heat in sunshine, like a cloud of dew in the heat of harvest. For before the harvest, when the blossom is over and the flower becomes a ripening grape, he cuts off the shoots with pruning hooks, and the spreading branches he lops off and clears away. Then they shall all of them be left to the birds of prey of the mountains and to the beasts of the earth. And the birds of prey will summer on them, and the beasts of the earth will winter on them. At that time, tribute will be brought to the Lord of hosts. from a people tall and smooth, from a people feared near and far, a nation mighty and conquering, whose land the rivers divide, to Mount Zion. The place of the name of the Lord of hosts. An oracle concerning Egypt. Behold, the Lord is riding on a swift cloud and comes to Egypt. And the idols of Egypt will tremble at his presence, and the heart of the Egyptians will melt within them. And I will stir up Egyptians against Egyptians, and they will fight Each against another, and each against his neighbor, city against city, kingdom against kingdom, and the spirit of the Egyptians within them will be emptied out And I will confound their counsel, and they will inquire of the idols and the sorcerers and the mediums and the necromancers, and I will give over the Egyptians in And the waters of the sea will be dried up, and the river will be dried dry and parched, and its canals will become foul, and the branches of Egypt's Nile will be will diminish and dry up, reeds and rushes will rot away. There will be bare places by the Nile on the brink of the Nile, and all that is sown by the Nile will be driven away and will be no more. The fishermen will mourn and lament all who cast a hook in the Nile, and they will languish who spread nets on the water. The workers in combed flax will be in despair, and the weavers of white cotton. Those who are the pillars of the land will be crushed, and all who work for pay will be grieved. The princes of Zoan are utterly foolish, the wisest counselors of Pharaoh give stupid counsel How can you say to Pharaoh, I am a son of the wise, a son of ancient kings, where then are your wise men? Let them tell you that they might know what the Lord of hosts has purposed against Egypt. The princes of Zoan have become fools, and the princes of Memphis are deluded. Those who are the cornerstones of her tribes have made Egypt stagger. The Lord has mingled within her a spirit of confusion, and they will make Egypt stagger in all its deeds. As a drunken man staggers in his vomit. And there will be nothing for Egypt that head or tail, palm branch or reed may do. In that day, the Egyptians will be like women and tremble with fear before the hand that the Lord of hosts shakes over them. And the land of Judah will become a terror to the Egyptians. Everyone to whom it is mentioned will fear because of the purpose that the Lord of hosts has purposed against them In that day, there will be five cities in the land of Egypt that speak the language of Canaan and swear allegiance to the Lord of hosts. One of these will be called the city of destruction. In that day, there will be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to the Lord at its border. It will be a sign and a witness to the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt. When they cry to the Lord because of oppressors, he will send them a Savior and Defender and deliver them. And the Lord of hosts will make himself known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know the Lord in that day, and worship with sacrifice and offering, and they will make vows to the Lord and perform them. And the Lord will strike Egypt, striking and healing, and they will return to the Lord. And he will listen to their pleas for mercy. And heal them. In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria, and Assyria will come into Egypt, and Egypt into Assyria, and the Egyptians will worship with the Assyrians. In that day Israel will be the third with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth, when the Lord of hosts has blessed, saying, Blessed be Egypt, my people, and Assyria the work of my hand. And Israel my inheritance. In the year that the commander in chief who was sent by Sargon, the king of Assyria, came to Ashdod and fought against it and captured it. At that time The Lord spoke by Isaiah the son of Amaz, saying, Go and loose the sackcloth from your waist and take off your sandals from your feet. And he did so walking naked and barefoot. Then the Lord said, As my servant Isaiah has walked naked and barefoot for three years as a sign and a portent against Egypt and Cush, so shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptian captives and the Kushite exiles, both the young and the old, naked and barefoot, with buttocks uncovered, the nakedness of Egypt. Then they shall be dismayed and ashamed because of Cush their hope and of Egypt their boast. All the inhabitants of this coastland will say in that day, Behold, this is what happened to those in whom we hoped. And to whom we fled for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria. And we, how shall we escape? Father in heaven, we thank you for your word. We thank you for all of your word. But we need your help. We need your Holy Spirit to help us understand your word and to write your word on our hearts so that we might respond to your word with faith. and obedience. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well it is, I believe, the Lord's providence that we come to this Extended passage about Egypt and Cush in a week when violence has suddenly erupted in Sudan, which is the land of Cush. and has turned this country into a chaotic and bloody conflict. Even some of this language here about The warfare taking place within the country is really what's happening right now in Sudan. The background, I gave a little bit of this in Sunday school, but the background to what's happening in Sudan right now is that Umar al-Bashir reigned over the country from nineteen eighty. A thirty-year reign of terror, of oppression, of genocide against black Africans, of religious persecution against Christians. He was one of the most brutal dictators in the world until finally his own military overthrew him and sent him off to the International Criminal Court to be tried for war crimes. That led to a period of three years in which there's been this transition to some sort of civilian government, but it's hasn't gone smoothly. There has been openness, religious freedom, Christianity is again recognized and allowed. You had open celebration of Christmas and Easter for a couple of years in a row that had been totally outlawed for thirty years prior. Um and and as I said, Sudan has has become a land close to my heart because Really of two men in particular. There's a group of men from Sudan that we've been working with in Uganda, but one of them is one of my favorite people in the world, and that is Joshua Abraham. Joshua Abraham is from the Darfur region of Sudan was uh fled there because Darfur was targeted in the genocide campaign of Bashir. Um he he sent a militia, an Arabic militia to go and massacre uh whole villages of black Africans And it didn't matter if you were Muslim or Christian, you were just if you were had black skin, they were gonna they were gonna burn you alive. And so he he fled. When his village was attacked, he ended up in South Sudan, where he met Christians and heard about the gospel. Then he ended up in Uganda, became a believer, became a strong believer. A very key person because he is fluent in Sudanese Arabic and is very strongly passionate for the Lord. Um he's been my translator uh three or four different times that I've taught over there. And it's so funny you know that when Joshua Abraham's gonna translate from for you. You need to basically hold on because he is a preacher and he will get to preaching. And so you'll say like one sentence And then he'll go on and on for five minutes and you realize, okay, he was he was inspired by something that I said to start preaching. Um and so but he's just a wonderful brother in the Lord. And the other is um Telmas Boutreus. And uh Thomas is distinct because he's it's not every day that I meet someone who I'm eye to eye with. He's basically my same height. And it's right in this passage, twice, the people of Cush are referred to as a people who are who are tall uh and smooth. And so picture this from a Hebrew perspective. The Hebrews never trimmed their beard, and so they had very big beards. and they had curly locks of hair. And they were relatively short in stature compared. And so there's these short hairy people. And They see these tall black Africans with smooth faces and close-cut hair and just tall and smooth. And they were in awe of Cush. Because Cush at this time was ruling over Egypt. So when I met Thomas uh Boutrius, I immediately thought, yeah, there's the tall Sudanese that I've heard about. By the way, if you're at all a basketball fan, you'll know the name Minute Bowl and his son Bull Bowl. The Bole Tribe is a tribe in South Sudan Quite tall. Some of the tallest people in the world are in that southern portion of Sudan. So Egypt and Cush are addressed together here, right? Cush in chapter 18. Egypt and chapter 19, but then chapter twenty is for both of them together. And the reason why the reason why they're addressed together is because while they are distinct, their their histories have been tied together. Earlier on in the history of ancient Egypt, Egypt ruled over the Kushite people and they would often enslave them and use uh particularly the black Africans as slave labor uh in Egypt. So they were tied together in that way. And then the Cushites got to where they were strong enough that by Isaiah's day, the Kushites are ruling over the Egyptians. Now, in the mind of Judah, that makes them almost supernatural, almost superhuman, because how could you conquer and rule over the Egyptians. The Egyptians were one of the oldest and most legendary civilizations in the world. Even in Isaiah's day, they've been around for couple thousand years and they were dominant in that part of the world. They had the most impressive architecture, they had the most impressive learning, they had the most wealth. And so here this these people in Cush They rule over the Egyptians? So they get this reputation. Verse 2 of chapter 18 tells us that they are a people feared near and far, a nation mighty and conquering. So this is a a people group that That they're just in awe of. And we know exactly where this land is because of some references in these first two verses. First of all, in verse 1, we have land of whirring wings And it's a reference to winged insects, and most Bible scholars think it's probably a specific reference to the tsitsi fly. And if you go to Uganda, you look you learn how to identify and look out for the tsitsi fly Because if it bites you, you might get what they used to call African sleeping sickness. It's really, really bad. You don't want it. Um and so you kind of keep an eye out. And they make this very distinct sound when they Well, they're not found in the northern part of Egypt, but they're found as you go south and you get to where the other way this is identified in verse two, whose land the rivers divide. See if you trace the course of the Nile south from Egypt, you get into Sudan, it splits into the White Nile that continues south into South Sudan. Sudan and Uganda and the Blue Nile that goes over I'll do it this way for your perspective, it goes over to the east to what's today Ethiopia. And so if you look at the country of Sudan, it is a land that the rivers divide, the Nile and then the White Nile and the Blue Nile. So it's like a, you know, like another Upside down Y that like splits the country into three major sections. But we know exactly where we are on the map. Uh you may have heard that Cush is Ethiopia, and it's true that Cush is the ancient kingdom of of Ethiopia, but that's not the same place as the modern nation state of Ethiopia. It's a little confusing, but so Cush is ancient kingdom of Ethiopia, which is what it would become to be called later. By the way, the place where the rivers split, where the Nile splits into the White Nile and the Blue Nile, is at Khartoum, which is the capital city of Sudan, and that is where the most intense fighting is happening. So the land where the rivers divide, the dividing of that river is the center of the fighting that's happening right now. So so we have these people. And we're told we're told pretty much when these prophecies come, especially chapter 20, we're given a very specific time reference. In the year that the Commander-in-Chief, who was sent by Sargon, the King of Assyria came to Ashdod and fought against it and captured it. We know exactly when that happened. That happened in 711 BC. And you'll remember, if you've been paying attention, that was actually prophesied by Isaiah back in chapter 14. Chapter 14, there was this very specific oracle concerning Philistia that they were going to be conquered. And here we get to the point where they now have been conquered. Why in the world would God be giving this extended message to Judah about Cush and Egypt? Again, Isaiah is a prophet to Judah and Jerusalem. Why would God want to send this extended word about Cush in Egypt to Judah? And Jerusalem, because that's where they were looking for help. We're told that at the very end of this whole passage in the last verse of chapter twenty, behold, this is what has happened to those in whom we hoped and to whom we fled for help to be delivered. The king of Assyria, by seven eleven, when he conquers Philistia, he's already conquered Syria, he's already conquered uh Israel, the northern kingdom. And he's now come down the west side and he's conquered Philistia. If you're Judah, you're like this big, right? And facing a kingdom that's like this big, right? If you look at where Assyria was at that point in history They come up from Kuwait and Iraq all the way up to um Syria, Lebanon, Jordan. the northern part of Saudi Arabia, all of that, and now they've conquered northern Israel, and now they've conquered Philicia, which is basically the Gaza Strip on the west. And so now what you're Judah, you're surrounded By this power, this kingdom that is so much more powerful than you. What is the natural human response if you don't want to be conquered by these people? By the way, you know what the Assyrians are known for in history? Just so you know that you don't want to be conquered by them. The Assyrians in history are known as the ones who invented impaling. Yeah, you take a giant log and you sharpen it and you put it in the ground, and what they would do is they would conquer a village and they would take the leaders of the village And they would just throw them onto the spike which would go through their body. They wouldn't kill them before they threw them on the spike, they would just throw them on the spike. You didn't want to be conquered by the Assyrians. They were terrified. And they're looking to Egypt for help. And Cush, I mean, if the Cushites are so mighty that they can conquer the Egyptians. Maybe, maybe we can go to them for help. Maybe they can rescue us. And this whole prophecy is to tell them, no, stop doing that. It's not gonna work. Work. They're going to be conquered too. And even this very graphic thing that happens in chapter 20, which is a little disturbing, especially knowing kids are in our worship service, we encourage kids to be in our worship service. But God tells Isaiah Take off your sackcloth, take off your sandals, walk around for three years as a sign that that's what's going to happen to Egypt and Cush. This dramatic sign, this shocking sign, this offensive sign, because God's trying to tell them, don't you dare look to Egypt or to Cush. They will not save you. They are doomed. They will not stand against the Assyrians. They're going to be conquered. This is what's going to happen to them. They're going to be stripped naked and they're going to be hauled off into exile. Don't look to them. What does that have to do with us? Because Egypt and Cush are still very much a reality in the world, and we can be very much tempted to look to them for help. What do I mean by that? What does Cush represent? Cush represents mighty military power. A people feared far and wide. A people so mighty that they conquered the Egyptians. Military power, might, strength, power. What does Egypt represent? Culture, civilization, education, the arts, the elite, they are the best. We can still be tempted as believers when we come under pressure from the world and we're afraid. That persecution might be coming, our voice might be silenced, we might have to start paying a price for following Jesus. We can still be tempted to look and say, well maybe there would be some way if we can get power. That, you know, power, political power, military power, there would be some way if we can get power, we can be protected by that earth Power. Or if we can just get our hands on the on the on the levers of culture, you know, if we can make really good movies. Or produce really good music or become really educated and become respected in the eyes of the world, that will get us either power or culture. Will get us what we need to protect us and keep us safe. And God says, don't do it. Don't put your hope in those things. Yes, those things are given by God, those things are good in and of themselves, they can be either used for good or evil, but don't look to them for your hope. Don't look to them for your rescue. God makes it clear that not only will the Egyptians and the Kushites fall, but that the Lord will be the one who does it. He summons in in chapter 18, verse 3, he summons the whole world to come and pay attention before he speaks what he's going to do. And this is what he says. I will quietly look from my dwelling, like clear heat in sunshine. This is 18. 4. It's a big passage. We're not going through it verse by verse, so we'd be here till four o'clock in the afternoon. But I will look quietly from my dwelling like clear heat inside Sunshine, like a cloud of dew in the heat of harvest. For before the harvest, when the blossom is near and the flower becomes a ripening grape, he cuts off the shoots with pruning And spreading branches he lops off and clears away. They shall all of them be left to the birds of prey of the mountains and the beasts of the earth, and the birds of prey will summer on them and all the beasts of the earth. Will winter on them. The world pays attention to the powerful and to the elite. But God works, he says, like heat. and like do. What does that mean? Why would he say that? He works like heat and like dew. Well there's two things about those. They're quiet in their work. Right, they're not flashy, they're not, but they're also absolutely unopposable in their work. When the heat comes, right You can start firing machine guns at it. You could curse it. You can write a write a eloquent poem against it. But guess what? It's coming. You even stop in it. Or when the dew comes. At harvest, you need the dew uh to to to water the earth in the time when it's not the rainy season. And so quietly for judgment, quietly for blessing, God works. Unopposably. Unopposably. God, God's work Is unopposable, unstoppable. It doesn't matter who has earthly power, it doesn't matter who has earthly culture. God's work is unstoppable. And so he says that he's going to give. the Egyptians and the Cushites into the hands of their enemies. They're going to be subdued. And it's exactly what happened. So late s like when you get down to like seven hundred into the six hundreds Is when the Assyrian Empire, after a number of attempts, they finally move in and they do conquer all of Egypt and Cush and they rule over it. And and what and what Isaiah says is at when that happens, it doesn't matter. Verse 15 of chapter uh 19. There will be nothing in Egypt That head or tail, palm branch or reed may do. What is that? That's language to say the rich and the powerful as well as the poor and the ordinary. There'll be nothing in all of Egypt that the rich and powerful or the poor and ordinary can do. Because God's working, they can't stop it. But you know, then something really amazing happens. Right in the middle of both of these oracles against these nations, something really amazing happens. Look at chapter 18, verse 7. As Cush is being crushed, being left for the birds of the air and the beasts. to feast on. Verse 7 says, At that time tribute will be brought to the Lord of hosts from a people tall and smooth, from a people feared, near and far. A people, a nation mighty and conquering, whose land the rivers divide, two mountain Zion, the place of the name of the Lord of hosts. And then in chapter 19, starting in verse 16, we get this turn. In that day the Egyptians will be like women. And tremble with fear before the hand that the Lord of hosts shakes over them. By the way, Some of you might be tempted to think there there goes the Bible being sexist again. Wants to insult the Egyptians and say they're going to be like women. No. You have to understand the realities of life in the ancient world. If you are a woman And you know that an invading army is coming and that conquest is coming, the men are likely to be killed. The women are facing something worse than death. And so they're terrified. And he says that's going to be everybody that's going to be that afraid of what's coming. And notice it's the hand of the Lord of hosts. God has the Assyrian Empire right in his hand, and He's the one directing it against them. Everyone to whom it is mentioned will Fear be because of the purpose that the Lord of hosts has purposed against them. And then it becomes this: in that day there will be five cities in the land of Egypt that speak the language of Canaan. And swear allegiance to the Lord of hosts. One of these will be called the city of destruction. If you look at your footnote in the ESV, it'll tell you, or could be the city of the sun. Could be read either way. The city of the sun, if that's what it is, we know exactly which city that is. It's Heliopolis, which was a center of the worship of the Egyptian god Rah. So instead of worshiping Ra, they're going to start worshiping the Lord. In that day there will be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt. Egypt and a pillar to the Lord at its border. It will be a sign and a witness to the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt. When they cry to the Lord because of oppressors, he will send them a Savior and Defender and deliver them. And the Lord will make himself known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know the Lord in that day. and worship with sacrifice and offering, and they will make vows to the Lord and perform them. And the Lord will strike Egypt, striking and healing, and they will return to the Lord, and he will listen to their pleas for mercy. And heal them. Sounds great. Cush and Egypt are both going to be turned to the Lord. It actually happened. In Egypt, Egypt became one of the places where God's people from Judah, when they were fleeing from the Babylonians, they settled in Egypt And there ended up being a very strong presence of God's people in Egypt, so much so that Alexandria, Egypt, becomes a center of Jewish learning and scholarship even before Jesus comes. Somewhere around 200 B. C. The most influential translation, Bible translation in history, the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible, it's made right there in Egypt. And then after Jesus comes Egypt becomes a flourishing center for Christianity. People who hear about the Lord on the day of Pentecost go back and take the gospel to Egypt and Egypt becomes one of the most influential centers of Christianity for hundreds of years. Alexandria is a seat of Christian scholarship and some of our best theologians and some of the best foundational work that was done in the church was done in Egypt. And get this. The Egyptian Coptic Church to this day is the oldest continually worshiping body of Christians in the world And they are still strong and vital, despite the fact that they've been persecuted again and again. And the Cushites, well, why would the Cushites bring tribute to the Lord? We'll get to that in a minute. The fact that the Kushites were bringing tribute to the Lord, we actually have a biblical record of. It comes hundreds of years later. Hundreds of years later, in the first century A. D. , that area that was known as Cush becomes known as the Kingdom of Ethiopia. And it's ruled by a very famous queen, Candacey, one of the most powerful queens in the ancient world. And she is paying tribute to the Lord in Mount Zion, and we know that because she sends a court official to pay the tribute to the Lord at Mount Zion, apparently carrying on a very long tradition. You probably know where I'm going with this. Acts chapter eight. Acts chapter eight, Philip, one of the first deacons In the church, he's told by the Lord, go to the desert road south of Jerusalem. And he goes to the desert road south of Jerusalem, and he sees this fancy Egyptian chariot riding along, and this court official, and the court official just so happens to be reading. Isaiah the prophet. Wonder why he was reading Isaiah. Maybe because that's where in the scriptures God talks about Cush bringing tribute to the Lord in Mount Zion And that's what he's just been doing. But he just so happens to be reading in Isaiah 53 of the suffering servant of the Lord. And Philip says, what are you reading? And he says, here's what I'm reading. And Philip says, do you understand what you're reading? And he says, how can I understand unless someone explains it to me? He basically says, would you please give me the gospel from the book of Isaiah, this book that for some reason our people treasure, maybe because they're mentioned in it. And so Philip goes and explains the gospel to the Ethiopian eunuch as we know him. He's a court official from Candice. He goes and takes the gospel back. To Ethiopia, and the Ethiopian Coptic Church traces its history back to that Ethiopian eunuch. And yes, they're still there worshiping today. Why would though, even in Isaiah's day, why would Egypt and Cush Come to have any kind of fear or respect for little old Judah. There's actually a very clear reason why that makes a lot of sense. You see, in the ancient world, wars were conceived of as contests between the gods. The passage that Mike did the devotional on yesterday in 1 Kings 20, you had Ben Hadad the king of Syria, and he was was defeated by the Israelites and he talks about their gods. Maybe their gods are gods of the hills and not of the plains, etc. That gets the mindset they think when our armies go to war, what's really happening is a contest between the gods Sometime this afternoon, if you get a chance, look up a map of the furthest extent of the Assyrian Empire. Just say, Assyrian Empire. Empire, you'll get a map. Okay. And what you'll see is the vast empire that stretches from Sudan. Through Egypt, into Palestinian-controlled territory, into northern Israel, into into Syria and Jordan and Lebanon and Turkey and Iraq and Kuwait and Northern Saudi Arabia. It's the largest empire that the world had ever seen to that point. And you'll see a little circle in the smack dab in the middle of that empire that's a different color from the rest of it, because it was never conquered. And it's Judah. And Jerusalem. Not that the Assyrians didn't try. They conquer Ashdod in 711 in 702, right? Nine years later, they march on Jerusalem. God had already predicted it earlier in Isaiah, exactly how far they would get. In one night, one angel of the Lord slays 185,000 Assyrian soldiers. And they say. We ain't touching these people. We out. The most powerful empire the world had ever seen, and they're like, no Because, guess what? God is actually in control. I wonder if we believe that sometimes We watch the news, we worry over things, financial things, political things, international. Do we believe that God is really in control? He sent the Assyrians as far down as Sudan and conquered everybody, but he put a little hand on Judah and said, Not my people. And he protected them so much so that they became the envy of the Egyptians and the Kushites who had to know what makes this people different. Who is their God? That he would protect them so powerfully. So here's the application for us. It's very simple. Don't trust or fear Egypt and Cush. But evangelize them. Don't put your hope in the things that the world says are great. Tell them about the one who truly is great. God is always at work in the world, even though it may be quiet like heat or dew, it is unopposable. He is accomplishing his purposes. His work doesn't typically grab the headlines or dominate the cable news talk show, but he is at work and We need to see that. We need to trust in him and we need to get in line with what he's doing. And we need to make sure that we don't get sucked in by the rest of the world saying, oh, how mighty Cush is, and oh, how wonderful Egypt is. Power, culture, education, the arts, money, what happens on Wall Street, what happens on Pennsylvania Avenue, what happens on Capitol Hill, what happens is is under God's control and not something we should trust in or fear. And so instead of fearing or worshiping Cush in Egypt, we need to evangel Evangelize them. We need to so firmly trust in the Lord and so walk differently from the world that the world would say, you're different. You don't seem to be conquered by the things that have conquered everyone else. The stock market had a big crash, and you didn't sprout a thousand new gray hairs. Right? Your political party lost a big election and I don't see you raging and throwing things and getting angry and You're different. And we can say very clearly, we should say, we must say very clearly, very boldly and very lovingly, I serve a king whose throne Is in heaven. He reigns as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. The whole earth is under his sovereign rule. He is unopposable, unimpeachable He didn't win an election to get that throne, and he can't be voted out of office. My king is the king. And my heart Heart is safe in his hands. Let's pray. Father, we love you and thank you that you are in control. You order all things according to your will. That doesn't mean they're always fun or enjoyable or something that we would welcome into our lives or something that we can understand. Understand or predict, you're in control. Help us to love you. Help us to thank you. Help us to worship you and help us to tell of you. To a world that is not interested in you, but desperately needs to hear about you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.