Psalm twenty-six of David Vindicate me, O Lord, for I have walked in my integrity, and I have trusted in the Lord without wavering. Prove me, O Lord, and try me. Test my heart and my mind. For your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness. I do not sit with men of falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites. I hate the assembly of evildoers And I will not sit with the wicked. I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O Lord, proclaiming thanksgiving aloud, and telling all your wondrous deeds. O Lord, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells Do not sweep my soul away with sinners, nor my life with bloodthirsty men, in whose hands are evil devices, and whose right hands are full of bribes. But as for me I shall walk in my integrity, redeem me, and be gracious to me. My foot stands on level ground in the great assembly. I will bless the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this psalm. Would you teach it to us? Help us to hear it, learn it, understand it, treasure it. Pray it, sing it, live it through Christ, who is the ultimate fulfillment of it. We pray all this in His name and for your glory. Amen. Okay, be honest. Did you have a hard time singing the first verse of that psalm? Lord vindicate me for I've walked in my integrity. I have not wavered from your path. I've trusted Lord in these like Psalm twenty-six is one of these challenging Psalms because we think um I don't know that I can pray this. Or say this. And how could David pray this and say this? I mean, there were some times of wandering in David's life. The whole Bathsheba incident, the period of time when he lived among the Philistines. So what gives? How in the world can he be writing and praying and singing and teaching God's people to sing Psalm 26? And make no mistake, we are supposed to sing this. It's written for God's people to sing, and God's people have been singing it for 3,000 years. So what gives? Well, we need to be clear about a couple things. First of all, for David, he is not here claiming to be perfectly and sinlessly righteous. What he is claiming is to be a man of integrity. Which I like that translation of that word in verse 1, integrity. You may have a translation that offers something different, but I think that's the right way to get this. In other words, he's saying, I'm not a hypocrite. He's genuinely a man of God from the heart, which we know God says that. He's a man after God's own heart. He's not like The people who are accusing him, the people who are opposing him, who are just absolute hypocrites. They are pretending to be one thing while they really are something different. He's saying, that's not me. I am who I am through and through But second, ultimately, this psalm, as well as all the psalms, we need to understand are fulfilled in Christ. They're given by inspiration of the Holy Spirit so that while what David said was true of him, It is even more true and perfectly true of Jesus Christ. Jesus could pray this prayer perfectly and sinlessly. In stark contrast to the scheming and conniving and plotting enemies who were slandering his name and were plotting to destroy him, to get rid of him, while at the same time Putting on their nice robes and going to serve in the temple and claiming to be honorable men of God. For us as believers in Christ. We need to know that we can only fully pray this kind of prayer through Christ. And that's evident, even if you look at the words. Well, in verse 1, David is talking about walking in integrity and trusting in the Lord without wavering. In verse 3, he makes it clear that this is possible because he walks in God's faithfulness, not his own. And then toward the end of the Psalm in verse 11, he prays: I shall walk in my integrity, redeem me and be gracious to me. So, whatever integrity David has, he knows it's because of God's faithfulness to him, and his confidence that he will continue in that integrity is because God will redeem him and be gracious to him. Christ alone was the true righteousness of David, and Christ alone is our true righteousness. And so we are righteous before God because Christ is our righteousness. David was righteous before God because Christ was his righteousness. And he could claim, you can test me, you can try me, because while he was a sinner, he was a sinner saved by grace, cleansed by the blood of Christ, and clothed in the righteousness of Christ. But why do we need a prayer like this? Vindicate me, O God. Why would we be taught by God to sing and pray this prayer? Well, on a human level, This prayer is given to us specifically, I think, for times when we are the victims of slanderous gossip or unfair or unfounded accusations. You ever have somebody say something about you behind your back that wasn't kind or wasn't true? This is the prayer for times like that. But we all have an adversary, whether aware of it or not, who says all kinds of awful things about us and makes all kinds of accusations against us. Many of which are true, but they're very negative. And that's the adversary of our souls, the devil. And because ultimately God is the just and holy judge of all, including of the devil, we need to make our plea for vindication before him from the accusations that Satan levels against us. So Satan comes along and says, You call yourself a Christian. I heard what you said to your wife. I heard what you said to your husband. Are those the words of a Christian? I saw the gesture you made to that guy who cut you off in traffic. Was that a blessing that you were imparting? Telling him that he's the number one driver on the road You call yourself a Christian. How do we answer those accusations? Very often they're accurate. But they're not, in that Satan throws them at us with an attempt to undermine our confidence and our salvation, undermine our position in Christ, shake our faith Get us doubting God. At those times we go to God and we say, Vindicate me, O Lord, because I really am truly and sincerely yours By your grace, because you've redeemed me, because you've been gracious to me, because of your faithfulness, I am yours. And yeah, I blew it And please forgive me for blowing it. That was not Christ-like behavior, but I know that I belong to you. And these accusations from the enemy are lies. So this is what Psalm 26 is for. Psalm 26, structurally it's very similar to Psalm 5. Now it was June 22nd when we looked at Psalm 5, but if you turn there in your Bible kind of flip back and forth. I'll just show you the similarities between these psalms. They're both they're both prayers of David. They're both a time when David was being spoken wickedly against. Psalm 5, verse 6, you destroy those who speak lies. The Lord abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man. They're also both structured very similarly. They both have five stanzas or five groups of verses And they're also both structured as a chiasm. If you remember the sermon from June 22nd, a chiasm is the first and the last are parallel, the second and the fourth are parallel, and the main point is in the middle So the first and the last is a plea to God. The second and the fourth is talking about enemies and the wicked. And the center is the heart of the psalm. Now here's where a difference is. You might remember when we were in Psalm 5 that I told you that the heart of the Psalm is verse 7, but I, through the abundance of your steadfast love, your chesed will enter your house. I will bow down towards your holy temple in the fear of you. So David has worship at the center of Psalm 5. Worship is also at the center of Psalm 26. Psalm 26 we find this in verses six and seven. I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O Lord, proclaiming thanksgiving and telling aloud all your wondrous deeds. And it continues even in verse eight, O Lord, I love the habitation of your house. And the place where your glory dwells. So worship is at the heart of both Psalms. But at the heart of Psalm 5, I had pointed out was Hesed. I, through your steadfast love, will enter your house. And Hesed is not at the heart of Psalm 26. Did I just say that? Well it's not in the middle, but it is there. Where do we see it? We see it in verse 3, which is the end of that opening stanza, which says, the integrity That David has is because the hechet of the Lord is before his eyes and he's walking in the faithfulness of God. So we still have steadfast love and faithfulness. This is this This is the the pair that's in the Psalms so often over and over again. God's steadfast love and faithfulness, his chesed and his faithfulness or his truth. By the way, we see the same pair. This is a little side trip. This isn't in my notes. This is the You don't even have to pay extra for it. John chapter 1. I'm going to give you the New Testament equivalent of steadfast love and faithfulness. It's in John chapter 1. It's in verse seventeen. We'll start in verse sixteen. John 1, 16, for from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace, for the law was given through Moses, grace and truth. came through Jesus Christ. Grace and truth is the New Testament equivalent of steadfast love and faithfulness The steadfast love is the heart of God toward his people, that's his grace, and the faithfulness of God is his unwavering commitment to who he is and what he has promised. That's the truth of God. It never changes and it never fails. And so that's where Chesed functions in Psalm 26, it's one of the things we're looking at this summer, is where is Chesed in the prayers of David? It's there as saying, I walk in my integrity, and you can vindicate me when you judge me, because I have your steadfast love before my eyes. And I'm walking in your faithfulness, not my own. Psalm 26, practically, it helps us in several ways. I'm going to give you four ways. That Psalm 26 is a help to us. First, it gives us a compelling picture of the heart of Jesus, like all the Psalms. Jesus is the fulfillment of Psalm 26. So when we get to the heart of it and we see what is most important in Psalm 26, that is what is most important to Jesus. It tells us what Jesus loves, what he hates, what he values, and what he seeks. The second thing is it gives us a picture of what a true believer looks like. How do you know if you're a true believer? How do you know if your heart is a heart after God's own heart like David's? Well, shows us the heart of a genuine worshiper of God as contrasted with the hypocrites. The third thing is it gives us both conviction and correction for where we may be going astray and also assurance and confidence of where we are seeking the Lord sincerely. So it convicts us and corrects us where we're going astray and it gives us assurance and confidence where we're seeking the Lord sincerely. And the fourth thing is finally it provides us with encouragement and comfort when people are slandering us on unfairly when we're being unjustly judged by the gossip of others. So let's go through this one section at a time and we'll see these four things being brought out for us. First of all, verses one to three, Vindicate me, O Lord, for I have walked in my integrity and I have trusted the Lord without wavering. Prove me, O Lord, and try me. Test my heart and my mind, for your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness. We don't know the life circumstances in which David wrote Psalm 26. It's not given to us in the title, but we do know that he was being falsely accused. Stuff was being said about him that was not nice and was not true. How many of you have had that happen to you? Come on, that's everybody, right? If you've been a human being alive on this planet for longer than a day, you've probably had people say stuff about you that's not ice, and that's probably not true. For David, we know there are two specific times in his life where this was a prominent theme. And that was when King Saul was hunting him down. King Saul accused David of plotting against him, of being disloyal to him. David was actually Saul's most loyal and most successful general But Saul was a paranoid man, and he falsely accused David of disloyalty. The second was, I think, even more painful for the heart of David, and that is his son Absalom. Before Absalom's rebellion, Absalom spent some time, years, sitting in the gate in Jerusalem And what he did was when people came to Jerusalem looking for justice, because that's what you would do, it was kind of the Supreme Court, was the king's court in Jerusalem. He would intercept them in the gate and he would say, Where are you from? and and what's your complaint? And then he would say, Oh, if only my father had someone appointed to hear your case. But, alas, you're out of luck. You know, if I were king, I would make sure there were people appointed Now was Absalom telling the truth? No. As far as we know, David did have people appointed to hear cases. But if Absalom intercepts them and says, ah If only, it's too bad. And he did this long enough and effectively enough that when he said, let's overthrow the king, he had enough people join him that they were able to overthrow David for a time. So it was slander That was in the heart of Absalom toward his father. Gossip. Gossip. Several years ago, Jerry Bridges wrote a wonderful book called Respectable Sins. And one of the respectable sins that he points out in his book is gossip. What is gossip? I actually like the way that Jerry Bridges defines it in his book. He says it's anytime you say anything negative about someone else behind their back. Whether it's true or not. You see, I think a lot of a lot of Christians excuse themselves from the sin of gossip because we say, well, this is true what I'm saying about this person. And what Jerry Bridges says is actually it doesn't matter if it's true or not. Because what did Jesus tell us? Jesus told us that you should treat other people the way you would want to be treated. How many of you would like to have other people talking negatively about you behind your back, about your worst failings and character flaws that are true? I mean I don't want to sign up for that. And if you wouldn't want to sign up for that, you shouldn't be doing it to somebody else. Not to mention the fact that Very often when we think what we have is the truth, maybe what we have is one perspective on one small slice of the truth. We have a partial truth, an incomplete truth, and only from a particular point of view. And so anytime we're talking negatively about someone else behind their back, we are violating The ninth commandment, that we're not to bear false witness against our neighbors, but more importantly, we're violating what Jesus said is the summary of the law and the commandments, and that is to do to others as we would have them do to us. And I've been guilty of this. But one of the things that brings the ugliness to your face is when you are a victim of it yourself, or when someone you love is a victim of it. And then you realize, oh, this is so ugly, this is so unfair. Why would people say that? Why would people do that? And hopefully we can learn from those times and learn to keep our mouth shut when they need to be shut. Just speak kindly of people and pray for them. So David's crying out for a specific kind of vindication here. He's crying out for a vindication from slanderous gossip, from false accusations. And that helps us understand the kind of integrity that he's claiming here. He's claiming these things they're saying about me are not true. David's not claiming to be absolutely sinless, but when Saul said He's disloyal. He's plotting to overthrow me. That wasn't true. And so David could say, I have integrity. I've taken an oath of loyalty to the king and I've kept it. When Absalom was saying, Oh, there's nobody to hear your case, David could say, That's not true. I have integrity. As king, I have set up judges, and they are here to hear cases. What's being said about me is false. And that's the integrity that he could claim. But David can only do so, taking one step at a time, with his eyes firmly fixed on the Lord. Your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness. It's very similar to what David said in Psalm 16, 8, when he said, I've set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. Now we do see this in David's life, but you know we see it even more perfectly and clearly in Jesus' life. Every single political sect in Israel, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, The scribes, the priests, the Herodians, all the power players who had any kind of influence in Israel, they all slandered Jesus What did they say about him? Well, they called him a Samaritan, a half-breed, because of the questionable circumstances of his birth. Even 2,000 years ago, people knew how to count to nine, and they could put together that Joseph wasn't the father of Jesus. They accused him of being demon-possessed, of casting out demons by the power of Beelzebub. They accused him of being a glutton and a drunkard, of being a friend of tax collectors and sinners, in a way that meant that he was being defiled by their influence in his life. And in the end, they condemned him as a blasphemer for claiming to be the Son of God. That should be comfort to us when people are slandering us and we feel like, what am I supposed to do about this? Well, maybe one thing we should do is pray and thank God That in this small way, we can be following in the footsteps of Jesus, who was slandered far worse than we have been, and was perfectly innocent. Jesus walked in his integrity. He was utterly sinless in his righteousness. He wasn't just relatively full of integrity. He was absolutely full of integrity. And as a human being, how did he maintain that integrity? By keeping the steadfast love of the Lord always before him. He would spend all night in prayer with God. He would get up early in the morning and go out to a desolate place before anyone else was awake and seek the Lord. Jesus lived in the power of the Holy Spirit with his eyes firmly fixed on his Father. He said, I've come to do the will of him who sent me. My food is to do the will of him who sent me. And for us, there's no other way to do it. There's no other way to walk in integrity but by keeping our focus on the Lord. And we have to be determined about it. Sometimes that means we have to get up earlier in the morning so we have time to focus on the Lord before the day comes and carries us along with its busyness. Or we need to set aside time when we can and say, I'm going to seek the Lord. How do we know that David sought the Lord? Well, the evidence in the second and the fourth stanzas that we see is that he lived separate from wickedness. Look at verses four and five. I do not sit with men of falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites. I hate the assembly of evildoers. I will not sit with the wicked. This language here If you're familiar with the Psalms, it should sound kind of familiar to you. It's very much an echo of the opening of the Psalms in Psalm 1. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. Now you might think, wait a minute, how is this true of Jesus? I don't sit with men of falsehood, I don't consort with hypocrites. Didn't Jesus go to eat in the house of Simon the Pharisee, who was a hypocrite? Didn't Jesus Dine in Matthew's house with tax collectors and sinners. Wasn't that one of the accusations they made against him? Yes, but It is primarily a question of influence. Of influence. You see, when Psalm 1 says, Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked. nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. It's a question of, yes, Jesus was among the sinful people. But he was never influenced by them to imitate their ways. Hebrews 7. 26 tells us we have such a high priest, holy. Innocent, unstained, separate from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. Four different terms that the writer of Hebrews uses to drive this point home. He's holy That means he's set apart, he's innocent, he's unstained, and he's separated from sinners. So Jesus Could spend time with Matthew and the tax collectors and the sinners, and also with Simon the Pharisee, and was not drawn after their ways. That's the call for us. To be salt and light means that we are influencing the world with the gospel, not the other way around. If you have a piece of meat and you heavily salt it, the saltiness preserves and flavors the meat. It penetrates, it influences. And Jesus said if it's not capable of doing that, it's lost its saltiness, you just throw it out and trample it underfoot. The light penetrates the darkness. When you walk into a dark room and you turn on the light, the light doesn't unless your light bulb is burning out. Don't take this too far But the light doesn't go, I don't know if I'm gonna influence the dark or if the dark is going to influence me, which way is this gonna go? The light penetrates the darkness And that's what we're called to. And that means we're called not to be like the world, in the world, but not of the world. Loving sinners, but not being influenced by sin. The third thing at the heart of this psalm gives us the heart of David's evidence of his life of sincere faith and gives us the heart of Jesus as well. It's in verses 6 and 7, but it continues in verse 8. I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O Lord, proclaiming thanksgiving aloud and telling of all your wondrous deeds. O Lord, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells. Sometimes Christians can be known by reputation for what we're against. The old southern fundamentalist saying is, if you're a Christian, you don't smoke, don't drink, don't chew, and don't go out with girls who do. I don't know if you've heard that before. Right? No drinking, no dancing, no cards, no dice. Like all of the like no no no no no no no's And while there is a negativity here in the second stanza and in the fourth stanza to say I'm not going to be influenced by the wicked sinners of the world to follow in their ways. That's true. What are the ways of the world? The desires of the flesh, the desires of the eyes, the pride of life. I'm not going to go that way. I'm going to stand on the Word of God. But that's not the defining characteristic. That's not the heart of the Psalm. The heart of the Psalm And the heart of David that made him a man after God's own heart, and the heart of Jesus, is for God and his worship with his people. To be in the presence of God, to be going around the altar, which is an act of worship, to be proclaiming thanksgiving aloud, giving thanks to God for his goodness, to be telling of all the wondrous deeds of the Lord. To love the habitation of God's house and the place where his glory dwells, that is the heart of a true believer. To do that, we have to be washed, innocent Jesus, of course, is perfectly righteous. He stands in the presence of God on his own merit with his own holy innocence. But we Must be washed innocent. David expresses this beautifully in Psalm 51 when he prays, Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me. And I shall be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness, that the bones you have broken may rejoice. Hide your face from my sins, blot out my iniquities Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence. Take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit. That's what we need. To come into worship, we need to be cleansed. But the good news is we have a high priest who gives us that cleansing. Freely, abundantly. He's not withholding it. Listen, the worst thing you can do is to wake up on a Sunday morning and say, I don't really feel like going to church. I've had a really bad week and I haven't really lived the way that I know a Christian should and I just feel like it wouldn't really be right for me to go to church and I don't want Don't do that. That's a trick. That's a trap that the enemy is laying for you. Entice you to sin. Get you to fall into sin, and then whack you over the head with shame, and then that shame keep you from going to the one place where you need to be. Which is in God's house with God's people. All of us who have messed up this past week, raise your hand if you didn't sin at all this past week. If you raise your hand, you just sinned and you're a liar, so. Like we've all messed up, we've all fallen short of the glory of God, we've all not been the kind of Christian people that we know we ought to be, and that's why we're here. For the cleansing that we need. Hebrews 10 says, Since we have a great high priest over the house of God, let us draw near. With a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience. How do you get a heart that is sprinkled clean from an evil conscience? Only one way, the blood of Jesus. Only his sacrifice And our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering for he who promised is faithful. Just like David saying, I've walked in your faithfulness. We hold fast to the confession of our hope without wavering because he who promised is faithful. Not because we are, but because he is And let us consider how to stir one another up to love and good deeds, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some. but encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day drawing near. That is the heart of a true believer. We go to worship, and in worship, what do we focus on? We proclaim thanksgiving and we tell of all God's wondrous deeds. The focus in worship should be on what God has done. And on us giving thanks for it and proclaiming it joyfully. So let me ask you, do you love worshiping with God's people? Do you long to come into his presence and worship him as he deserves? Do you long to give him thanks for all that he's done for you? Do you love to hear and to tell of all his wondrous deeds, the acts of salvation in Jesus Christ? This is the heart of those who truly love the Lord. They love to be in his presence and they love to be among his people. Not looking for excuses to miss church, and also not making church all about us. Let me put it this way. What would you think of someone who claims to love baseball but never wants to go to a game? What would you think of someone who says they love a certain band or musical artist and yet has no interest in seeing them in concert Or what would you think of someone who says they love the ocean, but they never get excited about going to the beach? If we love the Lord, then we should love being in his presence with his people. Are there inconveniences? Sure. Does it require something of us? Sure. But so does going to a baseball game or a concert or the beach. You've got inconveniences you have to deal with. You've got expenses and priorities that need to be made, but if you value those things, you make them a priority. We need to make it a priority to be in worship with God's people And not to be among the wicked who are going to be swept away in judgment. And that's what the next stanza is focused on. Don't sweep me away with sinners, nor my life with bloodthirsty men in whose hands are evil devices, and whose right hands are full of bribes. I don't want to be with the world. I don't want to be like the world. I know they're going to get swept away in judgment, eternal judgment. I don't want to be with them. I want to be with your people. I want to be with you. And our confidence in doing so is in God's redeeming grace. And that's where this ends. Verses 11 and 12. But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity. Redeem me and be gracious to me. My foot stands on level ground in the great assembly. I will bless the Lord. If you belong to the Lord Jesus Christ, you can have great confidence. that you will continue to walk in faith and one day you will stand in the great assembly. How can you have such confidence? Sometimes I talk to people, they're like, do you know for sure that you're going to heaven? I say, absolutely, I know for sure I'm going to heaven. And they look at me like I think I'm such a great person. Oh, why what makes you think you're so good that you're gonna go? I don't think that I'm so good at all, but I know how good Jesus is, and he's my ticket to ride. And he's brought me on board and I don't need to worry about it. Right? So it's that's our confidence. Redeem me and be gracious to me gives us that confidence that we're going to walk in integrity in this life, we're going to persevere in the faith And one day we will bless the Lord in the great assembly. When we are feeling falsely accused by Satan Or by our own troubled consciences, when we're wrestling with false guilt or shame, or when people are slandering us and gossiping about us We can find vindication only through the righteous one who is our great high priest and our righteousness. Do you know that all believers are equally righteous in the eyes of God? And in fact, that in the eyes of God we are as righteous as his son. Because we are clothed in his righteousness. As we focus our hearts on him, we get assurance, and we find joy in gathering together with his people to worship. If you've had people slander you, you know what the temptation is, right? You either want to get back at them by slandering back. Well, let me tell you about them. What do they say about me? Well, let me tell you about them Or to defend yourself. That's not right. They can't say those things about me. That's not the kind of person I am. But here's the thing: we had our confession of faith about what kind of king Jesus is, how he exercises his kingship. We need to remember If if you are in that particular situation where you're being falsely slandered or accused and you're sort of tempted to either get back or or vindicate yourself, remember this. You are not an orphan And you are not without a strong defender. You have a father, and you have a king. Remember the opening prayer is vindicate me, O Lord. David's not out there trying to vindicate himself. Vindicate me, O Lord. Lord. We can rest and we can trust that in the end God will do what is right. What we should be focused on. is worshiping him together with his people, giving thanks to him for how good he is to us, proclaiming his wondrous deeds, and looking forward to that day when we stand in the great assembly. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that you vindicate us Because we are your children and you love us. We confess that we are far from sinless, that we often wander And our thoughts, words, and deeds, but Christ is our righteousness and our rock. He is our King and our Redeemer. And so we rest and rejoice in him and him alone. We have everything we need in Jesus, and we have nothing to fear because we are in Jesus. And so we look to you and we thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen.