Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church In our 21st week together in the Gospels, we've come to Luke 2 and the middle section of Luke 2 where Jesus is presented in the temple. And we're asking this question, how long must we wait on the Lord? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It's powerful, it's living, it's active. It shows us your Son, our Savior. We pray that we would see Jesus more clearly. You would strengthen our faith as we spend time in your word, and that we would walk with you more faithfully. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen All right, Luke 2, 22 to 38, and then Psalm 103. And when the time came for their purification according to the law of Moses. They brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord, every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons Now there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord Now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples. a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and for glory to your people Israel. And his father and his mother marveled at what was said about him. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rising of many in Israel. And for a sign that is opposed, and a sword will pierce through your own soul also, so that thoughts from many hearts may be revealed. And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Fanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from when she was a virgin, and then as a widow until she was eighty four. She did not depart from the temple worshiping with fasting and prayer night and day. And coming up that very hour she began to give thanks to God and to speak of him to all who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem. What do you do when the one thing you've been waiting for all your life finally comes and when it does it completely shatters all your expectations. This is not a question that many of us know how to answer for we've not had enough life experiences to help us here We are not old men, doubled over by the cares of a long and expectant life. Even in the short years we have lived, we have not unwaveringly sought one thing and hoped for it with all of our hearts. Our divided and distracted hearts keep us from feeling real kinship with Simeon. Simeon was a single-minded man of purposed determination. Luke tells us that he was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. God had given Simeon a rare and precious promise, a promise that kept Simeon waiting and watching expectantly God told Simeon that he would have the honor of seeing Israel's true hope before he died When the day came for the promise to come true, he came by the Spirit into the temple. Simeon received the promise. With great joy. God had been faithful after all. The wait had been long, and Simeon was now a tired old man, but he had finally seen the long expected one with his own eyes. He could die in peace, for he had seen God's salvation face to face. None of us can die in peace until we have seen God's salvation by faith. Simeon was a man of peace. He now saw what his heart had longed for all those years. Yet Before Simeon passed from this world into the peaceful rest of the righteous, he spoke words that must have taken Mary and Joseph by surprise. I think even Simeon himself was shocked. by the words that came from his lips. They were given to him by the Holy Spirit as a prophecy of things to come. Simeon went to bless Joseph, Mary, and Jesus. But the words that he spoke were not words of blessing alone, but also a dark and mysterious warning. What did it mean that Jesus was destined to cause the fall and rising of many, and that a sword would pierce Mary's soul? Well, while Jesus' whole ministry exposed the thoughts of many hearts, I think Simeon was directly speaking of the coming cross. It was at the cross that Mary felt deep pain in her soul as she watched her son shamed and dying before a jeering mob. The cross was the reason for Jesus' coming, and even at his birth its shadow hung over his life. As Jesus hung on the cross, heaven and earth intersected in a unique way, in the dying of the Savior of the world, justice and mercy met In a bloody demonstration of the love of the Father for sinful people, Satan fell, and salvation was finally made a reality, as God's justice was satisfied, and the chains of slavery that had held God's people were broken. Something else also happened on that cross as Jesus died for our sins. The cross was transformed that day from a symbol of human wickedness and torture into a symbol of hope for millions of people. Yet it also became a symbol of God's final and unrelenting judgment against rebellious sinners. Those who embrace the cross and its shame find final freedom in the blood of Jesus. as they receive the forgiveness that can only be found in that dark place. But those who reject the cross and its offer of forgiveness find something else on Calvary's Hill. a graphic demonstration of God's furious wrath against sin. Those who will not accept what Jesus did on the cross must still see in it the anger of God against wickedness. If they will not allow Jesus to bear that anger in their place, they must be prepared to bear it themselves, something which none of us has the ability to begin to imagine. The cross offers us no middle ground. It will be our falling or our rising, our destruction or our salvation. And at the cross our hearts will be revealed before God. There will be no doubt where we stand. Perhaps you never expected to find life at such a place of death. Perhaps You're not ready to accept that someone else's pain could mean peace for your soul. I'm sure Simeon wasn't expecting what God revealed to him either. The question is, now that you know the truth, what will you do with it? Scripture says, What shall we say then? The Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it. That is a righteousness that is by faith. But that Israel, who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness, did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works They have stumbled over the stumbling stone, as it is written, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame That's Romans 9, 30 to 33. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 103, a beautiful psalm of praise, gospel, hope, and assurance. It's a Psalm of David. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy, who satisfies you with good. so that your youth is renewed like the eagles. The Lord works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed. He made known his ways to Moses, his acts to the people of Israel. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. He will not always chide. Nor will he keep his anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us. As a father shows compassion to his children, So the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him, for he knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. As for man, His days are like grass. He flourishes like a flower of the field, for the wind passes over it and it is gone, and its place knows it no more. But the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him, and his righteousness to children's children, to those who keep his covenant, and remember to do his commandments. The Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all Bless the Lord, O you his angels, you mighty ones who do his word, obeying the voice of his word. Bless the Lord all his hosts, his ministers who do his will. Bless the Lord all his works in all places of his dominion. Bless the Lord. Oh my soul. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we have every reason to bless you. To thank you, to praise you, to glorify you, because you have been so good to us. You don't treat us as our sins deserve, but you treat us with mercy and compassion that is richer and deeper and fuller than we could ever imagine. And nowhere do we see that more clearly displayed than at the cross, where Jesus was treated as our sins deserve, so that we might be treated as his righteousness. deserves. All of the great promises, all of the great assurances that we have in Psalm 103 come to us through the cross of Jesus Christ because he bore our sin in our place on the cross. Thank you for Jesus. Thank you for your steadfast love that is rich and abundant and free. Clothe us with the righteousness of Christ. Cleanse us by his blood, that we might stand before you, holy, loved. and secure. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining me again. As we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels, I hope it was a blessing to you, and I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.