Amen. Psalm forty is our passage for today. You can find that on page four hundred sixty-seven if you want to use one of the church Bibles to follow along. Psalm forty. It is written to the choir master, and it is a psalm of David. I waited patiently for the Lord. He inclined to me and heard my cry. He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog, and set my feet upon a rock, making my steps secure. He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord. Blessed is the man who makes the Lord his trust, who does not turn to the proud, to those who go astray after a lie. You have multiplied, O Lord my God, your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us. None can compare with you. I will proclaim and tell of them, yet they are more than can be told. In sacrifice and offering you have not delighted? But you have given me an open ear, burnt offering, and sin offering you have not required. Then I said, Behold, I have come. In the scroll of the book it is written of me. I delight to do your will, O my God. Your law is within my heart. I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation. Behold, I have not restrained my lips as you know, O Lord. I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart. I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation. As for you, O Lord, you will not restrain your mercy from me. Your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me. For evils have encompassed me beyond number. My iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see. They are more than the hairs of my head. My heart fails me. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. Let those be put to shame and disappointed altogether who seek to snatch away my life. Let those be turned back and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt. Let those be appalled because of their shame who say to me, aha, aha. But May all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. May those who love your salvation say continually, Great is the Lord! As for me, I am poor and needy, but the Lord takes thought for me. You are my help and my deliverer. Do not delay, O my God. Let's pray. Oh Lord, our Father It's because of your steadfast love and faithfulness that we can even call you our Father. Speak to us now by your Holy Spirit and write the precious words of this psalm on our hearts That we might love you and glorify you. And say always how great We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Was talking to someone yesterday about preaching today and I said I was kind of nervous because Psalm 40 is one of my favorite psalms And she said, you say that about all of them. And I said, well, no, it just really is. I've been a big U2 fan since I was in high school. Joshua Tree was one of my favorite albums when I was growing up. And I remember in college when I found out, I think I was in actually in a JCPenney and they were um showing old concert uh video of YouTube And they started singing. Bono started singing. I waited patiently for the Lord. He inclined and heard my cry. And I'm like, wait a minute, that's Bono and he's singing scripture. What is going on? And it's the song 40, which is based on Psalm 40. They took a few lines out of Psalm 40 and made their song. And that was actually when I found out that you two were a group of guys who met in high school when they were they're all Christians and they um were wrestling with whether or not they should go into ministry or go into uh music. And so anyway. So it really has been one of my favorite psalms. There's a lot of songs, contemporary songs, that are based on Psalm 40. And um now I say it's one of my favorite psalms, but it begins with three of the most challenging words for me. I waited patiently. I'm not very good at that. I don't like to wait. I like things done now. Um when I want something, I usually want it Now, like as soon as I think of it, I want it. Um and so, you know, I I got very excited when Amazon started offering same day shipping. Like, yes, I don't even have to wait overnight. Or sometimes you can you place an order for an overnight and it says it's going to be there between five and eight AM. Like, yes. It'll be here in the morning. And there have been times when we've ordered things that like the kids need for school the next day and it's like, oh good, it's going to come between five and eight a. m. So it should come just in time before they leave. I mean, I am an American, right? This is like part of our Creed. I mean I think you know maybe we should edit the preamble to the Declaration of Independence to say life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness, and fast food and overnight delivery. Like this is the American way. But sometimes we know waiting is good. Sometimes we need to wait. Our first son, Andrew, was born almost 10 weeks early, and we would have preferred to wait longer for his delivery. If you're flying on a plane going somewhere, you do not want your plane to touch down before you reach your destination. That doesn't usually end well. Right? And if you're a sports fan and you're following your s your favorite sports team, you want their season to last as long as possible. Right? You don't want we got football season coming up and Ravens fans, I know the expectation this year is Super Bowl or bust, right? It's this final of the year that they're gonna break through and go all the way. You want it to go all the way. Well, one time when we don't like waiting and when it's hardest to say, I waited patiently, is when we're suffering. When we're waiting for relief. And notice when David said he was waiting patiently, he was in a pit of destruction. He was in a miry bog. Not a pleasant place, not a place where I would be content to wait patiently. But the reality is that when we do wait patiently, In suffering, trusting in the steadfast love of the Lord. We learn how good God is We experience his faithfulness in a deeper way than if we just figure our way out of it or fix it ourselves. And Psalm 40 tells us that actually causes us to worship God more deeply. He put a new song in my heart, a song of praise. And that that affects other people. People will see and fear and come to trust in the Lord. So the main point of Psalm 40 is this: waiting patiently in suffering. As we trust in the steadfast love of the Lord, deepens our experience of God's goodness, it leads us to a richer worship of the Lord. And ultimately is a witness to the world around us of the greatness and goodness of our God. Now, Psalm 40 also points us to Christ, who is the ultimate example of one who patiently endured suffering. He was trusting his father, and he was brought through that into resurrection glory, opening up a whole new dimension of praise for God's people. So David opens. We're going to look at this in three sections, verses one to three. We're going to look at when David recounts having waited patiently. for the Lord. And then we'll look at verses 4 to 10, where David explores the need to be trusting in God's steadfast love. And then we'll look at verses 11 to 17, the ongoing need for ongoing trust. Because of the continual presence of sin and opposition. So David starts by recounting the past. He's remembering a time in his past when he waited patiently for the Lord. And the Lord inclined and heard his cry. We don't know when this was. We don't have anything in the title that tells us about the life circumstance. But I'm sure if you're familiar with the life of David at all, you're familiar with the time when he was being hounded by King Saul He had already been anointed as king. There were decades between the time when David was anointed as king by the prophet Samuel and when he actually became king, and for years of that time The king of Israel, the most powerful guy in that area who commanded an army of thousands, was hounding him and trying to kill him. David hid out in caves. He ran for his life. But what he didn't do was take things into his own hands and make it right. Which is what I'm tempted to do a lot when I'm stuck in a situation that I don't like. I'm tempted to just fix it. Like there's got to be a way to fix this. What's the fix? Start brainstorming, start look listing out possibilities. David didn't do that. Remember he had two opportunities to kill King Saul During that time when Saul was hounding him, once in a cave and once when he snuck into his camp at night every sleeping, twice. He could have just run Saul through with a spear. Would have been justified. I mean it's almost self-defense, like this guy's hounding him, but he said he's the Lord's anointed and I'm gonna leave him to the Lord, and I'm not gonna take things into my own hands. And so that's what he did David describes this period of waiting as being in a pit of destruction or in a miry bog. And it reminded me of TV shows I watched as a kid. I loved MacGyver. I also loved the A-Team. And it seemed like a lot of TV shows and movies. when I was growing up featured quicksand. The Miary Bog. Like people would just be walking through the woods and all of a sudden stumble into quicksand. And I mean I grew up expecting that life was going to be a place where I'd have to avoid a lot of quicksand And of course another one is the people walking through the woods and there's like a leafy cover, right, and they step on it and boom, all of a sudden they're down in a pit. So these images from my childhood, like I uh for a while I would say I was, you know, on my guard whenever walking through the woods. Like, could that patch of ground be quicksand? Could that pile of leaves be covering a big pit? Well, this is how David describes being in this situation. I've never yet encountered quicksand in real life. I think it was over-emphasized in my growing up years. as a life threat. However, I have many times found myself in what I would consider situational quicksand. Suddenly and unexpectedly finding yourself in a situation that was unexpected, that seems unfair, and that seems impossible to get out of. And the one thing you know about quicksand from the TV shows and the movies is that the harder you struggle against it, the more it sucks you down. And what you need is you need a strong and stable deliverer. You need someone who's on solid ground, who can reach out a stick or a branch, and you just hold on, and then you have to get pulled out, right? You can't fight it. And there's times in life when that's what we're in, this miry bog. We're in this place of like the more we fight, it could be Financial hardship. It could be a difficult situation at work. It could be a difficult relational situation. Whatever it is, sometimes the more you struggle, the deeper you sink. And what you need is to wait calmly for a strong deliverer. Someone who's not in the quicksand, someone who is above it and more stable than it to bring you out. So David waited, and he found that when the Lord brought him out, how did he respond? Well he says verse 3, he put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord. When it's obvious that God is the one who did the rescuing, we didn't fix it ourselves, we didn't make it right. When it's obvious that God changed God provided in a powerful way. God moved the situation in ways that we couldn't even anticipate. We praise God. From the heart. And when we praise God from the heart, people who see that notice that and they say, Wow, this person, they trusted God, and and they God really came through for them. And it moves their heart closer to God Well then in verse having recounted this past event in his life, in verse 4, David turns to a general statement about those who are blessed. The blessed man is the one who makes the Lord his trust, who doesn't turn away to the proud, doesn't go astray after a lie. And then he says to God, You have multiplied, O Lord our God. Your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us. None can compare with you. And then he says, I will proclaim and tell of them, yet they are more than can be told. I'm going to tell everybody about your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us, even though They're beyond my ability to tell. In sacrifice and offering you have not delighted, but you've given me an open ear Burnt offering, sin offering you've not required. Then I said, Behold, I've come. In the scroll of the book, it's written of me, I delight to do your will, O my God. Your law is within my heart. I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation. Behold, I have not restrained my lips, as you know, O Lord, I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart. I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation. So David himself knows personally the blessing of being a man, a man after God's own heart, a man who trusts in the Lord. Was he sinless? No. But he knew there were times when he had to trust in God and not turn aside to the You can trust what God says because you trust the one who's saying it That's why the steadfast love and faithfulness are this duo that David just brings up again and again in the Psalms. I was reading when I was preparing last week for the sermon on Psalm 36, I was reading from Dale Ralph Davis. And he was talking about how he had a childhood memory of of talking to someone who was a professor of ancient Near Eastern studies, and this professor of ancient Near Eastern studies loved to talk about Mesopotamia. And they would say, you know, in the land of Mesopotamia. And and i after a while he he looked at his dad, he's like, what's with this guy? And his dad leaned over and whispered and said, he just really loves the word Mesopotamia So he likes to say it as much as he can. And Ralph Davis says in his commentary, David was like that with the word It was his favorite word, and he likes to say it over and over again. So we have it twice more here in Psalm 40. And we see it in verse 10, where he says, I'm not going to conceal your chesed and your faithfulness from the great congregation, but then again we see it very next verse, verse 11. You will not restrain your mercy from me. Your Hasid and your faithfulness will ever preserve me. But why is David so fixated on this word Hesed is because he was a man after God's own heart, and God's own heart toward his people is Hesed. It is steadfast love. It is an an unwavering commitment To always do what is best for his people. And that makes his faithfulness reliable. His promises are trustworthy because his heart is full of love. David is a gospel proclaimer. He says, I'm going to tell everybody about this. I'm not going to hold it back. I'm not going to cover it up. I'm not going to hide it in my heart. I'm not going to keep my religious opinions to myself. I'm going to tell everybody. about how great God is, about the wondrous deeds, about the great deliverances that He's brought to His people. Right in the middle of this section, though, in verses 6 through 8, we get a section that tells us that Psalm 40 is more than just about David or from David. It's more than a psalm of David. It's a psalm of Christ. Look at verses 6 through 8. In sacrifice and offering you have not delighted, but you have given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required. Then I said, Behold, I have come. In the scroll of the book it is written of me, I delight to do your will, O my God. Your law is within my heart These words are picked up by the writer to Hebrews, and they're put into the mouth of Christ. If you have your Bibles in front of you still, please turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10. We're going to read a little bit of a longer section. Because I want us to see how the writer of Hebrews uses this section. Putting it in the mouth of Christ, because that's ultimately who is the subject of the Psalms, as we've seen. But there's an interesting change. See if you notice the change in Psalm 40, verses 6 through 8, from the way we read it in Psalm 40 and the way it's quoted in Hebrews 10. The technical reason is that Hebrews 10 is quoting the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. But I think in God's providence this change is actually a very significant one. And I'll explain it to you in just a minute. Hebrews 10, verses 1 to 10. For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come, instead of the true form of these realities. It can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered? Since the worshippers, having been cleansed, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins But in these sacrifices, there is a reminder of sins every year. He's thinking of the Day of Atonement, when there's always the atonement sacrifice made every year. For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said. Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sin offerings you have taken no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God. as it is written of me in the scroll of your book. When he said above, you have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings. These are offered according to the law. Then he added, Behold, I have come to do your will. He does away with the first in order to establish the second. And by that will, doing the will of God, we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once. for all. Did anyone pick up on the change in Psalm 40 how it's quoted in Hebrews 10? Hmm. In Psalm forty, verse six, it says, Sacrifice and offering you've not desired, but you've given me an open ear. And then it's quoted, it says, For a body you have prepared for me. So what's this open ear? in Psalm 40. Well it kind of has a double meaning. An open ear on one level just means you've made me attentive and willing to obey your word. You've changed my heart and given me this disposition of openness to hear what you have to say and to do it. But actually has a deeper meaning that would be familiar to everyone in the original context, and that is when an indentured servant or slave had served their term of servitude or had purchased their own freedom, so a slave set free If he decides he doesn't want to leave his master's house, but he wants to offer himself as a willing servant to serve his master for the rest of his life, there was a ceremony that was performed. And that is the ear of the servant would be put up against the door or the door post, this piece of solid wood, and the master would drive a nail through the earlobe. And that's what an open ear. You've given me an open ear. You've driven a nail through my ear. And now for the rest of that servant's life, they would bear this mark, this hole in their ear That everybody would know, okay, they've offered themselves freely and willingly in service to their master. They're not property, they are a willing servant. And I think in God's providence, we go from an ear you've opened to a body you've prepared. Because when Jesus Willingly offered himself up to do the will of God. It was not a nail through the ear, but it was nails through his body. And he bears forever the marks of those nails that went through his body, the body prepared for him. As a testimony that he was willing, he said in the Garden of Gethsemane, Not my will, but yours be done. He said in John 10, No one takes my life from me, but I freely offer it up. He offered himself up to do the will of the Father. And because he was willing to do the will of the Father, We have been sanctified. That means our sins have been forgiven. That means we are cleansed and freed forever. This is more than just getting us out of a tight spot. This is the deliverance we really need. I was reading a Calvin and Hobbes comic strip the other day, and Calvin wakes up for school. And he asks his mom, did it snow? Is school closed? And his mom says, well, it it snowed, but we have to listen to see if if school was closed. Um, kids, Calvin and Hobbes was written before the internet. And before the internet, you would have to either listen to the radio or watch the television to see if schools were going to be closed. It was also written before text messages on cell phones. I know it's very old, prehistoric, but a great comic strip. Anyway, so Calvin's worried and and he's and he's talking to Hobbes and he says If school's closed, that means I have all day to do the math homework I didn't do yesterday. But if school is open, then I'm a dead man. And then and then Calvin says, I almost feel like I should pray. And Hobbes says, another deathbed conversion. Like how many people, right, they get into a tight spot of like, oh no, here's this situation, I don't know what I'm gonna do, and so they pray. Get me out of this spot, right? But what happens when we get out of the spot? Say God brings us through it. Oh, wow, I got out of that. What happens? Does our life really change? Fundamentally? Permanently? Not really. But Jesus offered himself up freely to have nails driven through his body. So that we could not just be gotten out of a tight spot, but we could be eternally redeemed. He meets our deepest need, he solves our greatest problem, and he changes our eternal destiny. As our sins are forgiven, we're justified before God, we're adopted into his family, and we're given an eternal inheritance in heaven and a place in God's family. forever. All of that because of Jesus' willing sacrifice. Because he came into the world and said, I delight to do your will, O God. Knowing that, we should praise the Lord. But we still need to trust God in an ongoing way through the day-to-day, don't we? I mean, we know Jesus has done that for us. We know our sins are forgiven. The condemnation is removed. I'm justified before God. I have a place in heaven. We know these things to be true. And yet. We still face enemies and opposition. We still face doubt. We still face situational quicksand. And so we still need to trust God. Listen to how Psalm 40 ends. As for you, O Lord. You will not restrain your mercy from me. Your steadfast love and faithfulness will ever preserve me For evils have encompassed me beyond number. My iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see. They are more than the hairs of my head. My heart fails me. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. Let those be put to shame and disappointed altogether who seek to snatch away my life Let those be turned back and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt. Let those be appalled because of their shame, who say to me, Aha, aha. But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you May those who love your salvation say continually, Great is the Lord. As for me, I am poor and needy, but the Lord takes thought for me. You are my help and my deliverer. Do not delay, O my God. David is not writing Psalm 40 in a place of comfort and safety. He's not just looking back on a past deliverance and writing a beautiful song of worship for the choir master from his bedroom in his palace. He is in a bad place again. He's looking back to remember how he waited patiently on the Lord and the Lord delivered him. He's looking ahead in faith and saying, You will not fail to deliver me again. And in that tight spot, he is trusting the Lord. But he's also praying urgently. See, trusting the Lord doesn't mean a passive stoicism. It doesn't mean Well, this is my lot. I'm just going to have to wait until it's over. We can plead with God. We can pray to God. Listen to David's language. Do not delay, O my God. That's how the psalm ends. It begins with, I waited patiently, and then it ends with, do not delay, oh my God! So patient waiting? Yes. Urgent pleading? Yes. Are those two different things? No. We patiently wait as we urgently plead with the Lord for what we need. Now you might have thought This section surely can't apply to Jesus. Here David's talking about my iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see. They are more than the hairs of my head. Whatever situation David's in, he's facing external enemies, but he's also facing his own sin, which has overwhelmed him. You might say, well, well Jesus never sinned, so how could how could this apply to Jesus? But remember That on the cross, where Jesus was pierced for our transgressions and crushed for our iniquities All of our sins, all of our sins, all the sins of all of God's people from all time were all put on Jesus That is an overwhelming load of sin that was counted as his and he was punished for in our place. And so I believe that ultimately Psalm 40 is the song of Jesus on the cross, where he's crying out to the Lord. He's surrounded by enemies. The Pharisees, the Sanhedrin, the chief priests, the Roman soldiers, surrounded by enemies, and what are they saying to him? Ha! Ha! Look at him! He saved others. He cannot save himself. Right? So I think this is ultimately fulfilled in that it is the song of Jesus on the cross. Hebrews 5 tells us this about Jesus. In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears. To him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being made perfect, that is, made our perfect Savior and Redeemer, He became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey Him So we have not only David's example, but we have the example of Jesus that he, during the days of his flesh, offered up his prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears. Did Jesus patiently wait for the Lord his father to deliver him? Yes, of course he did. He waited patiently Was he brought up from the pit of destruction? Yes, he was brought back to life again from death. But did he cry out to the Lord? Yes. He agonized in the garden so much that he sweat drops of blood on the cross. He cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He cried out, into your hands I commit. my spirit. Jesus waited patiently and Jesus cried out for deliverance and he was heard because of his reverence. And in the end, this prayer was answered. All of those who delighted in the hurt of Jesus, who mocked him on the cross, were appalled and put to shame when he rose again from the dead. Their plans failed. He was delivered. If you are in Christ, if you are in Christ, He is yours, and you are His, God answers your prayers in the same way. The enemy may be hounding you. Your sin may feel overwhelming to you. You may be wrestling with struggles that are deep that you don't even tell anybody about. But if you cry out to the Lord and you are in Christ, God answers your prayers in the same way. He will bring you out. In the end, the suffering of Jesus on the cross, which is beyond our comprehension, the agony that Christ suffered on the cross, in the end it was only temporary. It lasted for a limited amount of time. And it was not only temporary, but it was purposeful. We literally would have no hope without it. And we know that it was temporary and purposeful, but we also know that because of how much the Father loved the Son, it would it had to be temporary and purposeful. In other words, God the Father was always going to answer his son's pleas for deliverance, and he was never going to subject him to suffering that was unnecessary. Oh, I know only this amount of suffering is necessary, but I'll have you suffer more just because, for no particular reason We know that's true of Jesus, and listen, if you are a child of God, he loves you as much as he loves his one and only Son. The same heart of steadfast love that he had for his son while he hung on the cross, he has for you. Which means whatever you're going through, Your suffering, my suffering, is temporary and purposeful It will be swallowed up in life and joy and love that will never end. Suffering is temporary, joy is eternal. Pain is temporary, love is eternal. But it's also purposeful. God doesn't give us any suffering that isn't for our good and for the good of his people and for the glory of his name Now do we always understand? No, of course we don't always understand. But we can know, because we know the heart of God, because we know the heart of God, we can know that that's true. Whatever it is we're going through. We are poor and needy, as verse 17 says, but also the Lord takes thought for us, as verse 16 says. Says. The Lord takes thought for us. That means he cares about us. He blesses us every day. He only gives us what he knows will ultimately be for our good. And if we believe that, if we believe that, then what Psalm 40 says we should be saying continually is, great is the Lord. Now sometimes we might say that through tears, and sometimes we might say that in the midst of pleading for relief. But we say from the heart, truly, great is the Lord. Knowing the Lord, knowing that He takes thought of us, knowing that His heart toward us is steadfast love, His promises for us are always faithful Should lead us to a gratitude and a contentment and a worshipfulness, even in the deepest and darkest valleys Because of what Jesus has done for us and who God is for us in Christ. So I don't know what situational quicksand you may be in. Some of you I know. Some of you are having open heart surgery tomorrow. Dealing with a cancer diagnosis. Some of you have family relationships that are fractured, broken. Some of you, though, are carrying around burdens that none of us see outwardly. Maybe it's a sin struggle, maybe it's a marriage problem, maybe it's concern for your kids. I don't know what it is, but I know this. If you are in Christ, God loves you so much That you can have his assurance that whatever you're going through is only temporary, and that God has put it in your life for your good, for the good of his people. And for the glory of his name. And so cry out urgently, plead with him, but worship him as well. Because he is old. Always great. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, our gracious God. You love us. The fact that the God of the universe, the God who spoke everything into existence, the God who upholds every atom and molecule of the universe By your power, the fact that you love us personally, individually. You've numbered the hairs on our head. You've written every day of our life in your books. You know us and love us. That fact is Amazing. It is astounding that you would give your one and only Son to redeem us so that we can be freed from all sin. We can be justified and redeemed forever. That is astounding. So no matter what we face in this life, Lord, may we always say: great is the Lord. Great is his steadfast love toward us. Great is his faithfulness to us. And may we offer ourselves to you willingly and freely, just as Jesus did. Saying, I delight to do your will. And if your will involves a valley of suffering, I can trust you that it will be for my good and for your glory. And so I will submit to it. Even as I cry out to you in the midst of it, Father, be glorified in our lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.