I'm Pastor Jason Van Memel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you. Proverbs chapter 1 is on tap for today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word in all of its diversity and all of its beauty and all of its truth. Please write your word on our hearts today as we look to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Proverbs chapter 1 The Proverbs of Solomon, son of David, King of Israel, to know wisdom and instruction, to understand words of insight. to receive instruction in wise dealing, in righteousness, justice, and equity, to give prudence to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the youth. Let the wise hear and increase in learning, and the one who understands obtain guidance, to understand a proverb and a saying, the words of the wise and their riddles The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. Sorry, let me read that again. Get it right this time The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. Verse 7. Verse 8. Here, my son. your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching, for they are a graceful garland for your head, and pendants for your neck. My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. If they say, Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, let us ambush the innocent without reason. like Sheol, let us swallow them alive, and whole, like those who go down to the pit. We shall find all precious goods, we shall fill our houses with plunder. Throw in your lot among us we will all have one purse. My son Do not walk in the way with them. Hold back your foot from their paths, for their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood For in vain is a net spread in the sight of any bird. But these men lie in wait for their own blood. They have set an ambush for their own lives. Such are the ways of everyone who is greedy for unjust gain. It takes away the life of its possessors. Wisdom cries aloud in the street. In the markets she raises her voice. At the head of the noisy streets she cries out. At the entrance of the city gates she speaks. How long, O simple ones Will you love being simple? How long will scoffers delight in their scoffing and fools hate knowledge? If you turn at my reproof, behold, I will pour out my spirit to you. I will make my words known to you. Because I have called, and you refused to listen, have stretched out my hand, and no one has heeded, because you have ignored all my counsel and would have none of my reproof I also will laugh at your calamity. I will mock when terror strikes you, when terror strikes you like a storm and your calamity comes like a whirlwind when distress and anguish come upon you, then they will call upon me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but will not find me, because they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the Lord, would have none of my counsel. and despised all my reproof, therefore they shall eat the fruit of their way, and have their fill of their own desires For the simple are killed by their turning away, and the complacency of fools destroys them But whoever listens to me will dwell secure and will be at ease without dread of disaster. That's Proverbs chapter one. Now, if you were with us yesterday for Psalms one and two, you should see lots of parallels between Psalms one and two and Proverbs I These belong to what's sometimes known as the two-ways theology of the Bible. The Bible makes it clear that there are two and only two ways that people can go about life. You can either live in wisdom, in the fear of the Lord, submitting to God, trusting in Him, walking in the way of faith. Or you can be selfish, rebellious, and go your own way and do your own thing and follow your heart. Jesus said that there are two ways. There is a wide path that leads to destruction, and there are many who walk in it. And there is a narrow path that leads to life, and there are few who walk in it. And this is a consistent teaching found many places throughout Scripture, the two ways. And so Jesus is the way, the truth, the life. He is the word of God, the Logos of God, incarnate, He is the wisdom of God. And so Proverbs shows us Jesus because it shows us what it means to live practically as becomes a follower of Christ. Wisdom in Hebrew means skillful fingers, which is a weird way of putting that. If I were to say to you, skillful fingers, you in the English language would probably not associate that with the word fingers. You would probably say dexterity, or you would say being adept, or being gifted, but you wouldn't associate that with wisdom. But in the Hebrew, the idea is that wisdom is very practical. It changes the way you live your life because you're walking according to God's word. It's not enough to know God's word. It's not enough to understand God's Word. We must walk in it. Now, of course, in order to walk in it, we have to first know it and understand it. But the goal is wisdom. The goal is a changed life. So to know wisdom and instruction, that is very practical. To understand words of insight, that's the purpose of the book of Proverbs. And really the thesis statement of Proverbs is in verse 7. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. There's your two ways, theology. There is the way of knowledge, the way of wisdom, the way of understanding, which is the fear of the Lord. And then there is the way of the fool, which is to despise wisdom and instruction. And you are either walking in one way or the other. That's true of everyone in the world. Now none of us walks in the way of wisdom perfectly. None of us walks in the way of wisdom as consistently as we should. But We can, by God's grace, love wisdom and pursue the fear of the Lord, which the Holy Spirit does that work in us by drawing us after Christ. Proverbs is also a book from parents to their children. Hear, my son, your father's instruction, forsake not your mother's teaching. So a mark of wisdom for young people is to listen to your parents and to follow what your parents have taught you. Now sometimes you get older and you grow up and you mature and I'm almost 48 years old And sometimes you realize that not everything your parents teach you is necessarily aligned with God's word. And so you want to be careful as parents. that you can say to your children, hear your father's instruction, forsake not your mother's teaching, because you know that your instruction, your teaching aligns with God's word. Now, just like the wicked raging in Psalm 2, we have sinners enticing here starting in verse 10. There are sinners who are enticing the righteous son, the one who's been brought up to know the Lord, and saying, Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, let us ambush the innocent without reason. There's a bit of a sad background to this because we know that Solomon's son, right, this is from Solomon. Solomon's son, Rehoboam, was in fact a fool, and that he listened to foolish counsel, and that that plunged Israel into the beginnings of a civil war and a divided kingdom. And so there is a bit of a sad edge to the book of Proverbs, because while it is good wisdom for life, we know that the one for whom it was written ultimately rejected us, which is a sober warning. Just like the wicked doers, the sinners entice, on the other hand, wisdom cries aloud. Wisdom is very clear and very confident in her call. Don't love being simple anymore. Don't scoff. Don't hate knowledge. Turn at my reproof, and I will pour out my spirit to you. I will make my words known to you. This is the voice of wisdom. We could say this is the voice of Jesus Christ who says to us, turn, trust me, I will give you my spirit, I will make my words known to you. So don't turn back. From that voice. Today, hear the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the words of wisdom that we find throughout your word, but especially here in Proverbs. Help us to walk in wisdom. Help us to listen with humility, not trusting ourselves, but trusting only in you. And we pray this in Jesus' name