To Proverbs chapter six. Heavenly Father, you are Wise in all of your ways. You are the source of all true wisdom. We pray that as we look to Proverbs 6 this morning, you would write your wisdom on our hearts and minds That you might guide us according to your truth and not according to the lies of the world or the craving of our flesh or the whispers of our enemy. We pray that we'd be guided by you and you alone. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Proverbs chapter six. My son, if you have put up security for your neighbor, if you have given pledge for a stranger If you are snared in the words of your mouth, caught in the words of your mouth, then do this, my son, and save yourself, for you have come into the hand of your neighbor. Go, hasten, and plead urgently with your neighbor. Give your eyes no sleep, and your eyelids no slumber. Save yourself like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, like a bird from the hand of the fowler Go to the ant, O sluggard, consider her ways and be wise. Without having any chief, officer, or ruler, she prepares her bread in summer, and gathers her food and harvest. How long will you lie there, O sluggard? When will you arise from your sleep? A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, and poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man A worthless person, a wicked man, goes about with crooked speech, winks with his eyes, signals with his feet, points with his finger, with perverted heart devises evil, continually sowing discord. Therefore, calamity will come upon him suddenly. In a moment he will be broken beyond healing. There are six things that the Lord hates, seven that are an abomination to him, haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, and feet that make haste to run to evil a false witness who breathes out lies, and one who sows discord among brothers. My son, keep your father's commandment, and forsake not your mother's teaching. Bind them on your heart always. Tie them round your neck. When you walk they will lead you. When you lie down they will watch over you. When you awake they will talk with you. For the commandment is a lamp, and the teaching a light, and the reproofs of the discipline are the way of life, to preserve you from the evil woman, from the smooth tongue of the adulteress Do not desire her beauty in your heart, and do not let her capture you with her eyelashes, for the price of a prostitute is only a loaf of bread, but a married woman hunts down a precious life Can a man carry fire next to his chest, and his clothes not be burned? Or can one walk on hot coals, and his feet not be scorched? So is he who goes into his neighbor's wife. None who touches her will go unpunished. People do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy his appetite when he is hungry, but if he is caught he will pay sevenfold, he will give all the goods out of his house. He who commits adultery lacks sense. He who does it destroys himself. He will get wounds and dishonor, and his disgrace will not be wiped away, for jealousy makes a man furious And he will not spare when he takes revenge. He will accept no compensation. He will refuse, though you multiply gifts. Hmm. Proverbs chapter 6 in the ESV. Much practical wisdom in Proverbs. We also do see pictures of Christ here. So We first have this warning against foolishly putting yourself up as security for your neighbor. you know, co-signing on a loan for someone or putting your house up as collateral for someone else's loan or something like that is what he's talking about. You don't advise very strongly to stay out of that situation because what you've done is you've put yourself in the hand of your neighbor. And if he's irresponsible, if he's if he's has disregard, the harm is going to come to you and not to him. And oftentimes people who are looking for co-signers on loans or need someone else to put up collateral for them are in a position where they've been, you know, habitually irresponsible. There's a reason why they can't get credit on their own. And so the why is the practical wisdom here. is stay away from those types of situations where you could be ensnared uh in in a situation that's out of your control in your family. and your and your life could be ruined financially because of someone else's foolishness. But you know, there's a picture of Christ here because he was willing to put himself up as a pledge for us. Now we are not strangers to him. We are ones he dearly loves. And so he's willing to put himself up as a pledge for us, even though it did cost him his life, even though it did ruin his life. He did it to save us from the hand of our enemy, from sin and death and Satan. And so there's a little picture of Christ in this in this language of giving yourself as a pledge for another. Second picture we're given in Proverbs 6 is of the need to work hard, to be self-disciplined. Life is, we were created by God to work. Life is best when we have a good work ethic and we're willing to work hard at the things that God gives us to do Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh is a Sabbath to the Lord our God. So we are given the Lord's Day, the first day of the week now in the new uh covenant age. As the Sabbath is a day of rest, but the other six days we are to work hard and to be industrious and to be wise in our working, to save, to invest. to labor hard and uh to prepare for the future. You know, she prepares her bread in summer, gathers her food and harvest so that in winter time she can eat. So this is this is the hard work. that's being recommended to us. Where do we see Christ in this? Well Christ Christ labored hard when he was here on earth. We think of him, of course, going to the cross for us, which was a hard, hard work. But also during his days of life on earth, Jesus was a tireless worker. He taught people for hours on end. He would heal people, he would feed people, he walked thousands of miles on foot. diligently doing everything that God gave him to do fully with with a good, determined work ethic. He also rested, though, when it was time for him to rest, and he sought time away with the Lord one-on-one where he could pray because he knew that he needed the Lord to give him the energy to work hard. So we have a picture of some bad things in verses twelve to nineteen, a worthless person, a wicked person. is pictured in in many ways in verses twelve to fifteen. Uh he he winks with his eyes, he signals with his feet, he points with his finger. He's devising evil. He's continually sowing discord. You know, what's interesting is we're all sinners, right? The Bible says all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And there is no one righteous, no not one. That's in Romans 3 and several other places, right? David confesses in Psalm 51. In sin did my mother conceive me and I was brought forth in iniquity. So we're sinful from birth and we're all sinful Some Christians have misunderstood this doctrine of total depravity, and one way they've misunderstood it is to say that basically all people are equally evil or equally wicked. So there's no difference between a Mother Teresa and an Adolf Hitler. You know, they're both equally wicked and equally evil. I mean really it just defies sense. It also defies Scripture because Proverbs tells us about wicked people and scheming people and those who shed innocent blood. And it's not everybody. Right? Now, it's only by God's common grace that it's not everybody, but God's common grace restrains evil in the heart so that most people think evil thoughts. have evil desires but don't act on them because of they know the consequences or they know that they don't really want to do that. They're held back by God's grace, by his common grace. So there are bad guys in the world. There are evil people. There's a fundamental difference between Vladimir Putin and the things he does as the president of Russia, right? And um you know, uh Vlodomir uh Zelensky, who's the president of Ukraine, draw Blanco's name for a minute. These guys, they're both sinners, they both need the Lord. But one is aggressively pursuing a campaign of evil and oppression. The other is trying to defend his country from this evil campaign. So there is Biblically, according to Proverbs and many other places, it's relative righteousness among human beings in our dealings with one another. We shouldn't deny that because we affirm total depravity and the fact that we're all sinners. God tells us some specific things that he hates. Uh a haughty eye, so arrogance, a lying tongue, d deceiving. Hands that shed innocent blood, heart that devises wicked plans, feet that make haste to run to evil, false witness that breathed out lies, one who sows discord among brothers. These are horrible things that we should avoid. They are really bad because they have caused great harm in the world. Picture of Christ. Christ didn't do any of these things, right? Christ was humble. Christ spoke the truth. Christ shed his blood for the guilty. He never shed innocent blood. He shed his own blood, though he was innocent, for the guilty. He his heart was set on doing God's will and and his he set his face toward Jerusalem to embrace the cross. for our salvation. And he brings unity among brothers because we are united in Christ. So these six or seven things are are pictures of what God hates, but Christ, they're also a picture of everything that Christ is not. and all that Christ is is the opposite of those things. And so the final picture we have here is the need to stay diligent to pursuing what you know is right and good and true because you might get led astray by the adulteress. And the adulteress is a picture in Proverbs of a foolish woman, a woman of folly, a a a snare that might take your life. Because in a very real practical sense, if you commit adultery with another man's wife You have destroyed your marriage and theirs. You've gotten his anger at you. You've subjected yourself to to consequences legal and judicial, especially in ancient Israel. uh you could be put to death for this um or it certainly could could cost you everything. Sin is costly. So the adulteress becomes really a picture or symbol. I mean certainly this is true of actual adulteresses, but it also becomes a picture and a symbol of ensnaring sin. When Satan comes at us and tempts us with sin that looks so pleasurable, that looks so innocent, so fun, just a little indulgence, it's always Satan is always showing us the bait to hide the hook. He's an expert fisherman. He's got the bait that looks so tempting and he's hiding the hook. And there's always a hook. Sin will always, you've heard this one before, I'm sure, sin will always take you farther than you want it to go, and keep you longer than you want it to stay, and cost you more than you wanted to pay That's the nature of sin, and it's it's being personified here by this adulterous woman. But any time we give in to ensnaring sin in this foolish moment of self-indulgence We we set ourselves up for misery and some sometimes we do things that we just can't undo. We may be forgiven. But there's no way to undo the wrong that we've done. But Christ redeems us from sin and death, and Christ reconciles us to the Father. But still, if we know Christ, we want to keep close to Him. We want to keep close to our Heavenly Father's true instructions We want to keep close to the Holy Spirit's leading within us. We want to walk in the in the commandments of the Lord, in the teaching of the Word of God. Here's verses 20 to 23. We can't use our position in Christ as a callous presumption to sin wantonly because even Christian people can fall into sin that has disastrous, disastrous consequences. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your wisdom that is words of life to keep us from harm and to help us to walk in righteousness. But we can only walk in wisdom by your Holy Spirit working in us. We can only walk in wisdom as we follow closely after Jesus, who is the embodiment of wisdom. So, Father, keep us close to Christ. Fill us and lead us with your Spirit and help us to walk in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. I pray this, Father, in Jesus' name.