Good morning and Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into his word today. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word. Every part of it every day. You are good and gracious to us. Please write your word upon our hearts. Help us to follow after you, to grow in you, to love you, to learn from you. Make us more like Jesus for the time we spend with you today, we pray you. In Jesus' name, amen. Proverbs twenty nine. He who is often rebuked, lets yet stiffens his neck, will suddenly be broken beyond healing. When the righteous increase the people of the By justice a king builds up the land, but he who exacts gifts tears it down. A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet. An evil man is ensnared by his transgressions, but a righteous man sings and rejoices. A righteous man knows the rights of the poor. A wicked man does not understand such knowledge. Scoffers set a city aflame, but the wise turn away wrath. If a wise man has an argument with a fool, The fool only rages and laughs, and there is no quiet. Bloodthirsty men hate one who is blameless, and seek the life of the upright. A fool gives full vent to his spirit, but a wise man Quietly holds it back. If a ruler listens to falsehood, all his officials will be wicked. The poor man and the oppressor meet together. The Lord gives light to the eyes of both. If a king faithfully judges the poor, his throne will be established forever. The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. When the wicked increase, trembling. Transgression increases, but the righteous will look upon their downfall. Discipline your son, and he will give you rest, he will give delight to your heart. Where there is no prophetic vision, the people cast off restraint. But blessed is he who keeps the law. By mere words a servant is not disciplined, for though he understands he will not respond. Do you see a man who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for him. a fool than for him. Whoever pampers his servant from childhood will in the end find him his heir. A man of what wrath stirs up strife, and one given to anger causes much transgression. One's pride will bring him low, but he who is lowly in spirit will obtain honor. The partner of a thief hates his own life. He hears the curse, but discloses nothing. The fear of man lays a snare. But whoever trusts in the Lord is safe. Many seek the face of a ruler, but it is from the Lord that a man gets justice. An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, but one whose way is straight is an abomination to the wicked. We have a Older mug here, Grogu, before he was even known as Grogu, just a child. Uh good coffee in it. Alright, Proverbs thirty. This is uh Coming to the end of Proverbs, we have uh twenty nine, Proverbs twenty nine today, and then thirty and then thirty one, so a couple more. Proverbs again is practical wisdom for living, often following the pattern of But basically there's two ways to live. There's the way of wisdom, which is the way of righteousness, which is the way of humility, which is the way of integrity, and then there's the way of foolishness, which is the way of pride, and the way of of selfishness and the way of greed and the way of un you know destruction. So there's there's two paths you can walk on in on life. And the proverbs do a good job of condensing down what this looks like practically speaking, whether you're on the narrow path that leads to eternal life or whether you are on the broad path that leads to destruction. It's not it's not that if you do these things you're going to inherit eternal life. But rather if you're living according to God's word, if you are living in harmony with The Word of God, you will follow this way. This is the way of eternal life. And this is the way that Jesus walked. Jesus is the embodiment of wisdom, the fulfillment of wisdom in the law, and thus he is the embodiment of Proverbs. If we want to really know what these things look like when they're lived out. We see them clearly in the life of Christ as reflected in the gospels. But also these proverbs help to give us more understanding into why Jesus did certain things or said certain things because he was living out wisdom. So, one of the things that wisdom does is respond well to reproof. If you're corrected, if you're rebuked, if someone who's wise or the word of God or a sermon says you've done done wrong, don't resist, don't harden your heart, don't stiffen your neck, because the harder you get, right, the less responsive you are to God's word, the more it's likely that you're going to be broken. Righteousness is never just a personal matter. It doesn't just impact us. Within a society, within a community, when righteous increase, it spreads good blessings to those around them. But when the wicked rule the people groan. It is you see, folly it goes against God's natural order, goes against his natural law, g it goes against the way that He created the world to work. And so when you're short sighted and you're selfish and you're impulsive and you're arrogant and you're brash you end up causing harm to yourself and to others. He who loves wisdom makes his father glad. So not only are a people blessed by a righteous ruler, and the people cursed by a wicked ruler, but a righteous son blesses his father. Whereas a companion of prostitute squanders as well, takes his father's inheritance and squanders and we could think right there of the prodigal son, right? And Jesus is giving us an illustration of this prophet. Proverb in the story of the prodigal son. By justice a king builds up the land. But he who exacts gifts tears it down. So here's one way. If foolishness or wickedness in rule hurts the land, what does that look like? Well, one way that looks looks like is exacting gifts. You see this around the world in so many different countries where the government is corrupt and you have to grease the palm and and pass along a little bit extra if you want things to actually work. That quickly corrupts a society and destroys the economy because people will not be willing to make investments uh in infrastructure or in enterprise because they never know who's gonna come looking for a gift to take away the profit that they're trying to earn. A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for a steep. This is an entirely negative proverb. Sometimes they're balanced, like four, and most of them are balanced where one line is the good side and one line is the biggest. the bad side or maybe sorry the bad side and then go to the good side. But here we just have an entirely negative one. And the flatterer, this was illustrated in Pilgrim's Progress, the flatterer led Christian and hopeful Down a path where they were caught in a net. Someone who is flattering you, always puffing you up with your pride, they're usually trying to make you feel good so that you'll follow them or fall for something that they have planned for you. Don't engage. Engage in flattery because you're trying to soften people to be more pliable and don't listen to flatterers. Value those who will speak the truth to you, even if it's hard to hear, because they love you. An evil man is ensnared in his transgression. But a righteous man sings and rejoices. If you honor the Lord, if you fear the Lord, then even when you suffer, you can suffer with a clean conscience and you can be like Paul and Silas in the Philippine jail at midnight singing and praising the Lord because you know that you've honored God and you don't really belong there. Scoffers set a city aflame. A wise man turns away wrath. Again, there's influence in the community from the wisdom of the wise man. wise. If a wise man has an argument with a fool, the fool only rages and laughs and there is no quiet. Sometimes, man, that could describe social media trolls, can't it? I mean you're just you're trying to make a point, you're trying to say something helpful and people just react with this ridiculousness. And that's that's a good sign that it's just time to walk away. Like don't even bother engaging anymore at that point because such a person is not really interested in acquiring wisdom. They're just interested in uh seeing how obnoxious Clever, you know, they think they are. A fool gives full vent to a spirit, but a wise man quietly holds it back. More good social media advice, right? Just because you have a thought in your head doesn't mean it needs to be shared on the Twitter or Facebook or wherever. You can keep it in your head and you can be careful and wise when you share what you're going to share, making sure it's in keeping with God's word and is expressed with love and and a measured and tempered spirit. There's advice about the poor here and about how important it is for rulers to take care for the poor in wisdom and how God really is on the side of the poor. poor when they're being oppressed. And so in verse fourteen, if a king faithfully judges the poor, his throne will be established forever. Yeah. Many seek the face of a ruler. It's from the Lord that a man gets justice. So if in this life people won't give justice to the poor, the Lord will give full justice. to the poor in the end. Look at verse 16. The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. Because we're born sinful, and also ignorant, we need from our parents instruction and also correction. And good parents will love their children enough to say, I'm gonna I'm gonna tell you no and I'm gonna correct you when you're going astray because I love you and I want what's best for you in the end. parents who are constantly covering for their kids or taking their kids' side in every argument or dispute, they're not actually doing their kids any favors in the long run. They're just telling their kids that if they're selfish and whiny, uh that they'll be indulged and that really sets them up for the life of a fool. Actually David was that way with his own kids. Like he didn't correct his his sons when they were going astray and he had continual problems um with with his sons. And Amnon and Absalom and then um who was the other son who claimed the throne, yeah, I think it was. And so he had three of his sons that he had major problems with because he did not reprove them. when they were doing wrong. So instead, verse 17, discipline your son, and he will give you rest. He will give delight to your heart. Um Let's just jump down to the end of this. Verse 25, one of the most important verses in all the Bible. Of course all the verses in the Bible are super important, but verse 25 of Proverbs 29 is really valuable to memorize, to hide in your heart, to keep in mind. mind. The fear of man lays a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord is safe. We are always, always, either fearing man or fearing the Lord. We're either acting in such a way as to Make sure that people are not mad at us or people don't disapprove us or people don't hurt us or people will like us or people will help us or our eyes are fixed on Jesus and we're trying to be faithful to our heavenly King. The thing about people is if you're fearing people, you can't really love them at the same time. You can either fear them and allow them to manipulate and control you by their expectations, or you can love them positively, speaking the truth and acting in in their best interest but not according to just what you think would make them like you or not be mad at you. Only the Lord can you love and fear at the same time because he's holy and what he wants from you is what's best for you and what is best ultimately. So we need to fear and love the Lord, and then in the fear of the Lord, love other people. So the fear of man, in all its various forms, people pleasing, um, you know, fear of speaking the truth about your testimony because you don't want to be. rejected or you're afraid of consequences or just buttering people up and telling them what they want to hear because you want them to like you. All the all of the various ways of the fear of man lays us in there. It's like the trap spread by the flat earth. Stay away from it. And the only way to stay away from it is to trust in the Lord. To realize that in the Lord's hands, you are safe. And you can have a clean conscience and you can have joy in your heart knowing that you are honestly loving people in fear. of the Lord. Alright, so that's more wisdom from Proverbs. Good stuff to consider for every area of our lives, for public life, for private life, for family life. And I hope that you've got some things that you can apply to our hearts. Uh, let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the wisdom of Proverbs. It's practical, it's challenging, it meets us where we live, and it calls us to live better. So we pray that we would follow Jesus, make us more like Jesus, to make us more like Jesus. and to make us more like the wisdom of Proverbs. So Father, help us to walk in self control, in consideration for the poor, seeking to bless others with our words, but not giving way to flattery or engaging in flattery, not fearing man, but fearing you. And walking in self-control and uprightness. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.