Good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels as we're getting to know our Savior better and also praying through Psalms. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Day two of week three brings us to the third part of Matthew 5, and then we're going to be praying Psalm 12. And in this third part of Matthew 5, we're asking How does Christ's kingdom transform us from the inside out? Let's go to God's Word. Matthew 5, 31 to 48. Let's pray first. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. Write it on our hearts today Transform us from the inside out to be more like Jesus, our righteous Savior. In His name we pray. Amen. It was also said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. Again you have heard it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn. But I say to you, do not take an oath at all. either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. And do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black Let what you say be simply yes or no. Anything more than this comes from evil. You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, do not resist the one who is evil. But if any one slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if any one would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. And if any one forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. You have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy, but I say to you, love your enemies and pray. for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, for he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and the unjust For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect, as your Heavenly Father is perfect. This first chapter of the Sermon on the Mount just completely exposes all of our unrighteousness. By the time we get to the stunning conclusion of chapter 5, you therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly father is perfect. We are done. Or rather, completely undone. It's almost as if Jesus is trying to lead us through the moral law in such a way that we will end up right back at the beginning of the sermon, blessed are the poor in spirit. In other words, Jesus is trying to show us. He is showing us our spiritual bankruptcy. In the space of a chapter, we're told by the King of Kings That if we call someone a fool, we're in danger of hell. If we look at a woman with lustful intent, we've already committed adultery in our hearts. We should not resist evil people who try to take advantage of us, but we should give them what they're asking for. We should love our enemies, and we must be perfect. No one with any ounce of self-awareness can come to the end of Matthew 5 without being convicted of sin and being exposed before the perfect standard of a holy God. But then broken Under conviction by our sin and stripped of all of our self-righteousness, we can see something else Jesus is doing besides exposing our spiritual bankruptcy Jesus wants us to see that His kingdom righteousness works from the inside out. The letter of the law works from the outside and ultimately cannot change where we most need to be changed. The Holy Spirit works from the inside and transforms our hearts. That's the real difference between legalism and a heart that Honors God. Legalism seeks an external standard, a checklist that we might demonstrate how well we measure up against it. A heart that honors God knows its own spiritual bankruptcy and is being transformed into a heart of real love. humility and obedience. It's not content to hate people as long as it doesn't actually kill them, or to lust, as long as it doesn't actually have sex outside of marriage, or to hate and despise people, as long as we can classify those people as evil and our enemies. No, a heart that is being transformed. By Christ's kingdom, by the Holy Spirit, knows that we must love everyone and abuse no one. We must bless and not curse. We must keep our word, even to our own hurt, and we must serve those. Who abuse us. The only way we're going to be able to do this is by the work of God's Holy Spirit in us. So we need to seek Him for the power we need to really change. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 12, and we will pray this prayer together. It's written to the choirmaster according to the Shemonith as a Psalm of David. Save, O Lord, for the godly one is gone. For the faithful have vanished from among the children of man. Every one lies to his neighbor. With flattering lips and a double heart they speak. May the Lord cut off all flattering lips the tongue that makes great boasts, those who say, with our tongue we will prevail, our lips are with us, who is master over us? Because the poor are plundered, because the needy groan, I will now arise says the Lord, I will place him in the safety for which he longs. The words of the Lord are pure words. like silver refined in a furnace on the ground, purified seven times. You, O Lord, will keep them. You will guard us from this generation forever. On every side the wicked prowl, as vileness is exalted among the children of man. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we need your salvation. Not only is the world around us full of wicked people, who break their word, who twist and manipulate words to get their own way, but our own hearts are desperately wicked. without your grace. If we were left to our own, if we were, if we were apart from you, we would be just another one of the wicked in the world. It's our natural condition. And so we need your saving grace. And so we thank you that your words are trustworthy. Your words are pure and you keep them. Even the words that tell us that you save us by grace through Jesus righteousness and that you transform us by the power of your Holy Spirit to be more like Jesus. Do the work in us that you have promised to do in your word, for it is in your word that we put our hope. Keep your word to us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for this third part of Matthew chapter 5. Tomorrow we're going to dive into Matthew 6 as we continue in the Sermon on the Mount. Have a blessed day in the Lord.