Good morning, good morning, good morning. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Home Presbyterian Church. We're here on day 243, and we're back in the book of Proverbs. Proverbs chapter 9, which is a great chapter that contrasts the two voices, two competing voices in the world and in our lives. Lady Wisdom and Lady Folly. Let's pray. Father, you are wisdom itself and the source of all true wisdom. We come to you wanting to hear from you. Speak to us through your word, and draw our hearts after yourself, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Proverbs chapter 9. Wisdom has built her house She has hewn her seven pillars. She has slaughtered her beasts. She has mixed her wine. She has also set her table. She has sent out her young women to call from the highest places in the town, whoever is simple, let him turn in here. To him who lacks sense, she says, Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine I have mixed. Leave your simple ways and live and walk in the way of insight. Whoever corrects a scoffer gets himself abuse, and he who reproves a wicked man incurs injury. Do not reprove a scoffer, or he will hate you. Reprove a wise man, and he will love you. Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be still wiser Teach a righteous man, and he will increase in learning. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is insight. For by me your days will be multiplied, and years will be added to your life. If you are wise, you are wise for yourself. If you scoff, you alone will bear it. The woman folly is loud. She is seductive and knows nothing She sits at the door of her house. She takes a seat on the highest places of the town, calling to those who pass by, who are going straight on their way, Whoever is simple, let him turn in here. And to him who lacks sense, she says, Stolen water is sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant. But he does not know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of Sheol. Hmm. Proverbs chapter 9. What a great and powerful contrast. This is part of uh the Bible's teaching that there are two ways that you can go in life. And so there's many, many passages in the Bible that emphasize this truth that there are only two ways you can go in life. Jesus said it himself when he said The way is narrow, that leads to salvation, and broad is the way that leads to destruction There are few who enter the straight gate and get on the narrow way of salvation, and there are many who are on the broad road to destruction. This chapter is telling us the voice that would call us onto the narrow way of salvation, that is the voice of wisdom, and then showing us the voice that would lead us down the broad path of destruction, and that is the voice of folly. Wisdom was the focus of Proverbs chapter 8. It was an extended discourse by wisdom. And so if you didn't catch that devotionally, you can go back and search through the archives and find Proverbs chapter 8. It's a good setup for Proverbs chapter 9, because now we're hearing from wisdom again. But we're getting a contrast between Lady Wisdom and Lady Folly. They have some things in common. They both have an invitation. Whoever is simple, let him turn in here. You see that from Lady Wisdom in verse 4, and then you see it from uh woman folly, shouldn't even call her lady folly, woman folly in verse sixteen. Whoever is simple, let him turn in here. So they're both saying Hey, if you're a simple person, if you're looking for something, I've got what you're looking for. Now, what changes is their message to the one who lacks sense Right? To the one who lacks sense, Lady Wisdom says, Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine I have mixed. How could she invite to eat of her bread and drink of the wine she's mixed? Because what we've been shown about her in verses in verse 2, she slaughtered her beast, she mixed her wine, she also set her table. Wisdom has a real banquet of actual food to offer to those who come into her house. She has meat, she has bread, she has wine, she has real nourishment of value, of life-sustaining worth For those who will come into her. But what about woman folly? She says, whoever is simple, let him turn in here, to those who lack sense, she says, what? Stolen water is sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant. She doesn't really have anything of her own to offer. Just like Steal some water. Steal some, you know, things that are stolen. Things that are in in secrets, another way of talking about something that's doesn't really belong to you until you're eating it fast before you're discovered. You see, wisdom actually has something to offer of value. Folly just has trickery, just has deception, just has uh Now we're given a little bit more about what wisdom actually teaches in verses 7 through 12. And so this is an interesting teaching. It's a hard one for us to hear sometimes because sometimes we might think sometimes we might think that if we have the truth Surely we can convince anyone of what the truth is. At least I've thought that sometimes in my life. I've thought, well I know the truth. I know the Bible. I know the Lord. I know what wisdom is. I've been studying the truth of God's Word for years. I can convince anyone. I can show anyone the truth. I can lead anyone. But that's just not true. There are people who are scoffers. There are people who are fools. And the Bible says you're wasting your breath. If you correct a scoffer, you're going to get yourself abuse. If you reprove a wicked man, you're going to get yourself injury. So don't waste your breath. I mean, Jesus put it as don't throw pearls before swine or give what is holy to dogs. There's a sense in which if someone hates God openly rejects God, does not want wisdom from God, it is a foolish waste of time to try to convince them of something that their heart is set against. You can pray for them. Because God can change their heart. So you can pray for them to come to the knowledge of the truth, to see their need for the truth, that God would change their heart, but you and I cannot change their heart. And when we're trying to do that, we're trying to like force it, like we're trying to be God. And that is just not what God calls us to do He calls us to give instruction to a wise man, to teach a righteous man, to to let people know the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Knowledge of the Holy One is insight. If you want to grow in wisdom, you have to begin with the fear of the Lord. If you want to gain insight and understanding, you have to know God first. Because you're not going to get wisdom, you're not going to grow in insight and understanding. without God, because God is the source of all wisdom, God is the source of all insight, God is the one who created us, who sustains us, and who will judge us at the end. He's the one who gave us our life. He's the one our one our lives are to be lived for And so without God, you can't you can't grow in these things. And so someone who hates the Lord, someone who doesn't want anything to do with God, as a scoffer, as a wicked man, really you just need to pray for them. You can tell them the truth, but then leave it at that and pray for them. Part of what people don't see when they go after the woman folly. is the cost. Lady Wisdom gives a feast. It does require humility to come in. Woman folly promises something exciting, something stolen, something eaten in secret. But the truth is, very sober, and verse 18 ends this chapter with a sobering warning. He, the fool who goes into the le house of woman folly, he does not know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depth of Sheol. So you walk into woman folly's house And the steps start going down. One step at a time, as you listen to her voice and you respond to her invitation, your steps are going one more down and one more down into the darkness. Where you think there's going to be something stolen, something eaten in secret that's going to be pleasant. You think there's something exciting waiting for you. But the truth is death awaits. Death awaits. That's the way it is, like these secret hidden pleasures. You know, some people get lured away into adultery, some people get lured away into a life of um pornography addiction. Some people get lured away into a life of thieving, scheming about how they can get more and sort of cut the corners and slip themselves a little bit of money under the table. All of these things, it's the voice of woman folly, and it's a voice that will lead to death. But thankfully, we can hear and heed the call of Lady Wisdom. Because ultimately, by inviting us to eat the bread and drink the wine, She's inviting us to Jesus, who is the bread of life. And I think of the Lord's table. Come and eat of my bread and drink of the wine that I've mixed. This coming Lord's Day will be sharing in the Lord's table at Forest Hill Presbyterian. And this is Christ's invitation through the voice of wisdom to say, come, I have real nourishment for your souls. It's the body of Christ. I have real refreshment for your guilty souls. It's the blood of Christ. Come and eat, and come and drink, and be filled, and be satisfied and be refreshed. Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the gift of Jesus our Savior. Thank you that He speaks with the voice of wisdom because He is wisdom, and He invites us to a real feast, even to delight in Him Himself. Thank you for Jesus our Savior. It's in His name we pray. Amen.