Good morning. I am Pastor Jason Van Level from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, Proverbs 15, which is about wisdom. And one of the wisest things we can do is pray and ask the Lord to help us, because He said if anybody lacks wisdom, let him ask and and God will give it generously without partiality. Let's pray Father, we need your wisdom. You are wisdom itself, the source of all true wisdom. And so we need you. We need you to be our guide and the one who teaches us truth, the one who builds us up in righteousness and faith and help us to honor you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Proverbs chapter 15 A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. The tongue of the wise commends knowledge, but the mouths of fools pour out folly The eyes of the Lord are in every place, keeping watch on the evil and the good. A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but perverseness in it breaks the spirit A fool despises his father's instruction. But whoever heeds reproof is prudent. In the house of the righteous there is much treasure, but trouble befalls the income of the wicked The lips of the wise spread knowledge, not so the hearts of fools. The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord, but the prayer of the upright is acceptable to him. The way of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord, but he loves him who pursues righteousness. There is severe discipline. For him who forsakes the way, whoever hates reproof will die. Sheol and Abadin lie open before the Lord How much more the hearts of the children of man. A scoffer does not like to be reproved. He will not go to the wise. A glad heart makes a cheerful face, but by sorrow of heart the spirit is crushed. The heart of him who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouths of fools feed on folly All the days of the afflicted are evil, but the cheerful of heart has a continual feast. Better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and trouble with it. Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a fattened ox and hatred with it. A hot tempered man stirs up strife, but he who is slow to anger quiets contention The way of a sluggard is like a hedge of thorns, but the path of the upright is a level highway. A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish man despises his mother Folly is a joy to him who lacks sense, but a man of understanding walks straight ahead. Without counsel, plans fail, but with many advisors they succeed. To make an apt answer is a joy to a man. And a word in season? How good it is! The path of life leads upward for the prudent that he may turn away from Sheol beneath. The Lord tears down the house of the proud, but maintains the widow's boundaries. The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the Lord, but gracious words are pure. Whoever is greedy for unjust gain troubles his own household, but he who hates bribes will live. The heart of the righteous ponders how to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things. The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous The light of the eyes rejoices the heart, and good news refreshes the bones. The ear that listens to life-given reproof will dwell among the wise. Whoever ignores instruction despises himself, but he who listens to reproof gains intelligence The fear of the Lord is instruction in wisdom, and humility comes before honor. The fear of the Lord Humility. So much of what we get in Proverbs is really like a splash of cold water to the face of our normal way of thinking in this world as human beings. In this world as human beings, our default mode is sort of, you know, trust your instincts, go with your gut, look out for number one, get what you get, while they're getting as good. You know, no one's going to care for you if you don't care for yourself. Above all else to thine own self be true. Trust you know, trust in your heart, follow your heart, it'll never lead you astray. um all this kind of stuff. It's really proud, it's really self-centered, it's really self-seeking, and it's really short-sighted and blind to our own faults. And so Proverbs splashes a bunch of cold water in the face of all that and says, Wake up! What you really need is the fear of the Lord. What you really need is humility. What you really need is to hold your tongue. What you really need is to work hard. What you really need is to trust God and be cheerful and humble and grateful rather than Grasping and complaining and self-seeking. So this is what Proverbs is. It gives us this practical wisdom. Now we have to be careful not to take it For what it's not. Proverbs are proverbs, and that may seem rather self-evident, but a proverb is a a saying of the wise Good advice for life, generally true things that help us to order our lives rightly. They're not promises and they're not absolute truth statements. For example Yesterday we were in Psalm 73. And today we come to Proverbs 15:6. It says, In the house of the righteous there is much treasure, but trouble befalls the income of the wicked. Well Psalm 73 kind of says the opposite of that, doesn't it? It says that often in the house of the righteous there's not as much treasure, and often The income of the wicked comes without any seeming trouble at all. They seem to be very happy about it. So you have to take it in context, and it's not It's not that Proverbs 15, 6 isn't true. It is true that if you work hard and you trust God and you're generous and you and you are careful and you are wise in your thinking, you're generally going to be better off. Walking in honesty, diligence, hard work, the fear of the Lord, the path of wisdom. is generally going to be better off for you than the sort of lazy, selfish, foolish, undisciplined path. But if you go down to verse 16 It'll tell you better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and trouble with it. So sometimes you have the fear of the Lord and you have only a little, but that little is better than having much treasure and not knowing the fear of the Lord. So it's not sort of an absolute promise. If you follow biblical principles you will be wealthy and if you do not follow biblical principles you will be poor. Because we could point to a thousand examples in the world around us where that's not true and that's not all that God has to say about it. So what are some of the principles that we get of wisdom, of what it looks like to live this humble, God-centered, uh, God-fearing way? Well, one way is that we don't we don't Use our words to try to get back at people. We have soft words. A soft answer turns away wrath. The harsh word is that sort of Self-righteous, self-seeking. I'm going to put you in your place. I'm going to let you know what I think of you. But a soft answer trusts God and is patient. The tongue of the wise commends knowledge of what is really true, rather than just pouring out folly. And we can do this because we know verse 3 That the eyes of the Lord are in every place, keeping watch on the evil and the good. So if you're trusting God with your tongue You're going to use it to speak truth and impart knowledge and give a soft answer. But if you don't think God is paying any attention to your tongue, you're going to use it to stir up anger and pour out folly and just say whatever comes to your mind because you're seeking your own way. So a gentle tongue is a tree of life, but perverseness in it breaks the spirit. More about the tongue. How do you respond to the tongue of those who are wiser than you, of those who are more seasoned? in life than you, like a father's instruction or the reproof of a wise person. If you are wise, you will heed that. If you're foolish, you will reject it. You'll resent it. You'll want it away from you. You won't realize that your father loves you and has good words of wisdom for you. You won't realize that the one who's reproving you is seeking your own good out of love. You're just going to think in a selfish, impulsive way and say, get that away from me, I don't want to have anything to do with it. So fear of the Lord affects our our words. It also affects the way we think about riches. We are glad, we are thankful, we seek the Lord. And we are content with what God gives us. Um there's also um A gladness to life, verse 13. There's a gladness to life if you live it before the Lord, because you realize that all of life is a gift that you are continually being given that you do not deserve. God pours out into our lives good blessings every day. And when we see that We have a glad heart and a cheerful face. But if we're always concerned about what we don't have that we think we should have, well that's going to lead to sorrow of heart. and a crushed spirit. I've said this before. It's one of these things I learned several years ago that's just stuck with me and I try to share it as often as I can and that is We we're always we're always aware of the gap between what we want to have and how much we really have instead. And we're kind of focused on that. We're like, well I wish I had this and I wish I had that, but instead I only have this and I only have that. And we can see be sort of upset about that gap there. But you know, there's another gap that we're easily blind to, and that is the gap between the punishment that our sins deserve and the good blessings that were given instead. Like we let we didn't earn anything from God and we deserve the punishment of God. So there's a gap between what I deserve from God and what God gives me instead. And if I'll take my eyes and focus them by faith on that gap, I will be glad of heart and cheerful of faith. I'll be thankful. And I'll have a continual feast of gratitude, and even if I have a little with the fear of the Lord, my heart will be contented with it. But if I'm over here looking at what I lack according to my own desires, well I'm going to be hot-tempered, I'm going to be uh hasty, I'm going to be foolish, I'm going to be uh resentful, I'm going to all that. And so it really matters how we live life. And that's really what Proverbs is given to us to cause us to think about. Are we living a life? That says, God is good, and God has been good to me, and I am blessed, and I am humble because I know I don't deserve it, and I'm going to be patient and listen to wisdom. and be careful to speak words that are fitting and appropriate, and be careful to take good advice from others. Verse 22, with many advisors they succeed. and that and live that kind of a life? Or am I going to live a life that is entitled, that is spoiled, that is ungrateful, that is resentful? th that is prideful, right? Which way am I going to go? And and really the only way to go the right way is by trusting God. And not ourselves. By humbling ourselves before the Lord and saying, You are the one who is good, and you've given me so much more than I deserve. That's where we have to start. That's why the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Proverbs. Thank you for Proverbs 15 for all that you're teaching us through your whole word as well as through the book of Proverbs. Father, we thank you for it We pray that you write it on our hearts today and help us to live by faith and not by sight, by gratitude and not by grumbling, by patient uh faithfulness and not by hasty grasping. We pray this in Jesus' name.