Good morning. I am Pastor Jason Babemel from Corasville Presbyterian Church. We are in the book of Proverbs, Proverbs 28, just a few more chapters to go. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and faithfulness to us. Thank you for being with us over these past. Two and a half plus years as we've gone through your word day by day. We pray that you write your word in our hearts today as we work in Proverbs twenty-eight. May we grow in wisdom. In the name of the one who is wisdom. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen. Proverbs 28. The wicked flee when no one pursues, but the righteous are bold as a lion When a land transgresses, it has many rulers, but with a man of understanding and knowledge, its stability will long continue. A poor man who oppresses the poor is a beating rain that leaves no food. Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law strive against them Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek the Lord understand it completely. Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity than a rich man who is crooked in his ways. The one who keeps the law is a son with understanding, but a companion of gluttons shames his father. Whoever multiplies his wealth by interest and profit gathers it for him who is generous to the poor. If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination. Whoever misleads the upright into an evil way will fall into his own pit, but the blameless will have a goodly inheritance. A rich man is wise in his own eyes, but a poor man who has understanding will find him out. When the righteous triumph, there is great glory. But when the wicked rise, people hide themselves. Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper But he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy. Blessed is the one who fears the Lord always, but whoever hardens his heart will fall into calamity. Like a roaring lion or a charging bear is a wicked ruler over a poor people. A ruler who lacks understanding is a cruel oppressor. But he who hates unjust gain will prolong his days. If one is burdened with the blood of another, he will be a fugitive until death. Let no one help him. Whoever walks in integrity will be delivered, but he who is crooked in his ways will suddenly fall. Whoever works his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows worthless pursuits will have plenty of poverty. A faithful man will abound with blessings, but whoever hastens to be rich will not go unpunished To show partiality is not good, but for a piece of bread a man will do wrong. A stingy man hastens after wealth, and does not know that poverty will come upon him. Whoever rebukes a man will afterward find more favor than he who flatters with his tongue Whoever robs his father or his mother and says, that is no transgression, is a companion to a man who destroys. A greedy man stirs up strife, but the one who trusts in the Lord will be enriched. Whoever trusts in his own mind is a fool. But he who walks in wisdom will be delivered. Whoever gives to the poor will not want, but he who hides his eyes will get many a curse When the wicked rise, people hide themselves, but when they perish, the righteous increase In Proverbs 28, we see societal implications and applications of righteousness and justice. and of following God's word. Um we see that good rulers are a blessing They care about justice, they take care of the poor. Wicked rulers are a curse. They don't care about the poor, and when they die, no one is really sad to see them. see them go. We see that our own actions have impact on the lives of others as well as on our own lives. And there's this contrast. A lot of Proverbs 28 is focusing on on how we treat the poor. Whether we turn a hard heart to them and don't care about them, or whether we give generously to the poor and lend to them. and seek to protect and and care for them. It's not only the rich who oppress the poor, but verse three talks about a poor man who oppresses the poor. It was a beating rain that leaves no food. Sometimes poor people at the bottom are fighting over whatever they can get, and so one poor man will exploit or oppress another. It's better to be a poor man who walks in integrity, though, than a rich man who's crooked in his ways. That i so often, you know, Galatians 5 says we reap what we sow. Do not be deceived, God cannot be mocked. Whatever a man sows, that also he will reap. And then in Galatians five it talks about sowing to the flesh and from the flesh reaping destruction, and then sowing to the spirit and from the spirit destruction. Reaping eternal life. And much of what we see here in Proverbs 28 are these practical patterns of people who either are sowing to the flesh That is being selfish, self-seeking, self-satisfied, oppressive, corrupt. Getting rich by interest and profit. Verse 8. What's the problem with interest and profit? You're just making money off of other people's need. You're not actually producing anything positive yourself. You're not you're not making a good or a service that is a positive help to people. You're just seeing people who are in need in a tight spot and they need a loan and you're seeing Thinking, oh, a person in need, that's a way I can get rich. And the Bible pronounces a curse on that. That is not right to look at someone else's need as An opportunity for you to enrich yourself. All of these things are patterns of living according to the flesh. When you live according to the flesh, you're often afraid for no reason. Verse 1 of Chapter twenty-eight. The wicked flee when no one pursues, but the righteous are bold as a lion. If you live in a selfish way, in a manipulative way, in a deceitful way way in a greedy way, you're often living in fear, partly because there's so many people you've wronged and you're waiting for them to get back at you, or because you're very suspicious that other people are out to get you because you yourself are out to get other people. And so the wicked fleas. when no one pursues. A funny thing about verse one is just an aside. Um I helped coach cross country this time of year. And so uh some people People make fun of cross-country. Why would you run if no one's chasing you? And and someone even has a t-shirt that says, you know, I would run, but Proverbs twenty-eight warns. And some translations say the wicked runs when no one pursues. But I think the ESV is a little bit more accurate than wicked flee when no one pursues. And in cross-country you're not fleeing, you're chasing, right? You're chasing a better time, you're chasing the person in front of you, you're chasing your your goal with the finish line. Um just a funny thing about if you're running cross country, you're the wicked fleeing when no one pursues Alright, so where was I? So yeah, sowing to the flesh or sowing to the spirit. The one who trusts in God will see someone in need and will realize that the law of love and the call of justice is more important than self-interest. And so if I have the resources and the ability to help someone who's in need, I'm going to try to help them as best I can in a way that's wise, in a way that's keeping in keeping with God's word. I'm not going to be looking for what's in it for me. How can I take advantage of this situation to gain something for myself? I'm going to be caring about someone else. I'm going to be caring about their needs. And that's why the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kind of Kindness, goodness, faithfulness, right? But the f the works of the flesh are these self-seeking things. And so a lot of what Proverbs 28 is just giving us these practical ways in which we either are living a life of the flesh, a life that is self-seeking. If you're a ruler, you rule over poor people and you oppress them and you're trying to squeeze every last penny of them. If you're poor, you're looking to exploit your fellow poor person. If you're a a a person of means and you see someone who is in need, uh, then you just don't want to hear it, right? You don't wanna um You you don't want to help them, you want to just turn a blind eye to it. Um But but if you're trusting God, if you're walking by faith, if you're seeking to live a life of love, then you're gonna walk in integrity. You're going to desire to and strive to live according to the moral law of God. You're not going to show partiality. You're not going to Be interested in flattery, you're going to be interested in loving and caring and sharing and doing good to as many people. John Wesley had a great saying. He said, do good to as many people as you can in all the ways that you can for as long as you can. So we're always called to do good. Jesus showed us that. It's always you know, he got criticized 'cause on the Sabbath day he would heal people or cast out demons and he would say, No, it's always good to do good. It's good to do good on the Sabbath day. So that's I think our big takeaway from Proverbs 20 is just take a practical look at our lives and think, am I am I sowing to the flesh? Am I living a life basically of self-interest? I'm always asking what's in it for me. I'm always looking for the easy way. I'm turning a blind eye to things that are difficult or inconvenient if they call me me to love in ways that are sacrificial? Or am I walking in the Spirit, trusting God, seeking to order my life according to His Word? Seeking to be generous. Jesus is, of course, wisdom incarnate. And so we go to the Gospels and we see Jesus living out in every day of his life a life of faith and a life of love. And we should do likewise. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the challenging call of Proverbs. It confronts us in the very practical realities of our lives. How do we respond to people in need? How do we respond to issues of justice and equity? How do we respond to flattery? Are we walking in integrity? These things don't save us, but they are the fruit that flows from the heart. And we want our heart to be yours. We want our lives to be yours. And we want our actions to reflect your care character. And so we pray that we would do this in Jesus' name. Amen.