Good morning. My name is Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forestville Presbyterian Church. Nearing the end of Proverbs, we're in chapter 26. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for how you've lost us day by day in your word Thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you for your truth. Please teach us from Proverbs 26 today. Write it on our hearts. Help us to grow in wisdom, in Christ-likeness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Proverbs 26. Like snow in summer, or rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool Like a sparrow in its flitting, like a swallow in its flying, a curse that is causeless does not alight. a whip for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the back of fools. Answer not a fool according to his folly lest you be like him yourself, answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes. Whoever sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off his own feet and drinks violence Like a lame man's legs which hang useless is a proverb in the mouth of fools. Like one who binds the stone in a sling is one who gives honor to a fool. Like a thorn that goes up into the hand of a drunkard is a proverb in the mouth of fools. Like an archer who wounds everyone is the one who hires a passing fool or drunkard. Like a dog that returns to his vomit is a fool who repeats his folly. Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him. The slugbird says, There is a lion in the road. There is a lion in the streets. As a door turns on its hinges, so does a sluggard on his bed. The sluggard buries his hand in the dish, it wears him out to bring it back to his mouth The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who can answer sensibly. Whoever meddles in a quarrel not his own is like one who takes a passing dog by the ears. Like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death, is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, I am only joking. For lack of wood, the fire goes out, and where there is no whisper, quarreling ceases. A charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man for kindling strife. The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels. They go down into the inner parts of the body. Like the glaze covering an earthen vessel, are fervent lips with an evil heart. Whoever hates disguises himself with his lips, and harbors deceit in his heart When he speaks graciously, believe him not, for there are seven abominations in his heart. Though his hatred be covered with deception, his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly Whoever digs a pit will fall into it, and a stone will come back on him who starts it rolling. A lying tongue hates its victims, and a flattering mouth works ruin It's Proverbs 26. So we have a whole series of verses, 11 Proverbs about the fool. And then a stunning answer to all 11 of these Proverbs. You don't want to be a fool, right? Very clearly from Proverbs, you know that you do not want to be a fool. A fool is someone who acts not according to God's word, but just according to his own desires, who doesn't think things through. Who doesn't put things together well, who doesn't think before he acts, who doesn't consider the Word of God and the principles of Scripture before doing whatever he does. He just is a fool, right? And honor is not fitting for a fool. A rod is more fitting for a fool than honor is You don't want to answer a fool according to his folly if it makes you like him, but you do want to answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes. I love verses four and five, because they're an answer to a couple of different issues that people have with the Bible. One is verses four and five teach us the nature of Proverbs. Some people take Proverbs to be absolute statements of truth or promises, and they're neither. A proverb is a bit of advice, a bit of practical life advice that is true, of course, it's God's word But it is not an absolute statement of truth like a theological premise or nor is it a promise So that's one thing it answers. The other thing it answers is people who say, oh, the Bible contradicts itself. Very often when the Bible says two different things in very different ways, it's because We're supposed to look at both of them and put them together in a way that that we have to think through and harmonize them. So for example, a classic case is in Romans. and Galatians, where Paul makes it very clear that we're justified by faith and not by works. But then the book of James comes along and says, well faith without works is dead. and your justification is shown by your works. You're supposed to put those things together. You're justified by faith, but a faith that is alive will produce works, as the evidence of that faith. So here again you have something that on the surface of it seems contradictory. Do you answer a fool according to his folly or do you not? If these are absolute truth statements like promises of God, how can they both be true? Because one of them says You answer a fool according to his folly. The other one says you don't answer a fool according to his folly. We're supposed to put them together and you're supposed to do what Proverbs is calling you to do and teaching you how to do, and that is to exercise wisdom. If answering a fool according to his folly means you get dragged down into the dirt with him and you end up just as foolish as he is, don't do it. Don't become like the fool by engaging in his argument with him. But do show him the foolishness of his ways. So you answer a fool according to his folly in a way of like showing him how foolish his argument is. lest he be wise in his own eyes. And it takes wisdom and discernment to know which of these to do or how to do them. You don't send a message by the hand of a fool. Might as well cut off your own feet. It's not going to get there. It's not going to get through. It's not going to be well understood. And then it talks about giving honor to a fool is like one who binds a stone in the sling and you see he can't actually release it. All these things about a fool. And then verse twelve comes along. Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him. So after eleven verses of One proverb after another, driving home how bad it is to be a fool, the worst thing is to be self-righteous or self-wise. If you think you're wise, if you're wise in your own eyes, there's more hope for a fool than for you. A know-it-all is worse than a fool. That's something. That's something to take to heart. Especially if we study Scripture and we think we know the Word of God, we think we understand biblical principles, if that means we've become to the point where we think we're wise in our own eyes. We're worse off than a fool. Then we turn to the sluggard, who is also in many ways worse than a fool Because a fool just kind of does things without thinking them through, without understanding, and acts impulsively and acts foolishly. A sluggard knows the right thing to do and refuses to do it. Just and and he'll often argue with you. Verse 16, the sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who can answer sensibly. He's like, he's got every excuse in the book for why he's not doing what he knows he should do. But just lazy. Oh, it's not lazy. He's got an answer for that. It's bad. It's bad. It's also bad to meddle in a quarrel that's not your own. Oh boy. This is advice that I need sometimes when I'm on Facebook. Just say it very bluntly, right? If you've sometimes been in Facebook or X or whatever and you've been dragged into an argument because you're trying to settle something that you see people disagreeing about You know, just sometimes we just need to stay out of it. Right? And unless unless there's some important principle of truth or the honor of God or the gospel of Jesus Christ that we can speak wisely to by the power of the Holy Spirit. We just need to stay out of other people's fights. And social media has has undermined a lot of this and we just need to be careful. Like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, I am only joking. This we see this sometimes with politicians, we see this sometimes with entertainers, we see this sometimes with um I don't know the opening ceremony of the Paris Olympics. Uh shall we say that from recent history? Where there's really something terrible happening. Some some some deceptive thing or some terribly horrible thing and then it's like, oh come on, can't you take a joke? Oh come on. It's not that serious. Oh come on, lighten up. That's not right We should not take those things lightly if they are wrong Gossip, verse 20. Gossip has undermined more churches, more Christian groups, more Christian ministries than almost anything else People talking about leaders behind their backs, second guessing their motives, spreading rumors about them. And uh some people are just looking to cause trouble. They're like a charcoal to hot embers or wood to a fire. These quarrelsome people, they just want to sow up division, and whispering, gossiping is one of the ways that they do that. Sometimes they can cover up and they can smile and they can appear like they're telling the truth Or pretend. It's like glaze covering an earthen vessel. It's like uh disguising yourself while harboring deceit in your heart, speaking graciously. No These things are all these things are all connected from verse 20 all the way down. Um it's it's the way that manipulative, two-faced, backstabbing quarrelsome loving, strife-inducing people operate. And you need to be discerning enough to figure out when you're dealing with those people. So here's a key. If someone you know is always coming to you and talking bad about someone else and calling into question the motives of someone else and trying to draw you in to that counsel, Know that that's probably just the way they are as a person, and don't be surprised if they're turning around and saying bad things about you to somebody else. So they come to you like, Oh, did you see what Joe did? Did you hear what Joe said? Why does Joe think he can get away with those things? Does he think he's fooling anybody? And you th and and if you get drawn into that, just know that You know, five minutes later he could be over talking to Joe about you saying the same kind of thing. Stay away from people like that. Correct them and then change the subject and walk away from the conversation because people like that are trouble. Trouble. So, wisdom. Wisdom would tell us, don't be a fool, but even more importantly, don't be wise in your own eyes And wisdom would also tell us, don't go along with people who are divisive, who are quarrelsome, who are gossiping and backbiting, because such people are very destructive. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that we have wisdom himself as our King and our Lord and our Savior. So through Jesus, who is wisdom incarnate, through Jesus, save us from folly, save us from self-wisdom, save us from being lazy and sluggish. Save us from division, choral, strife. Sanctify your people By your wisdom, by your grace, and for the glory of your name. We ask these things in Jesus' name