We are in Proverbs chapter 2 today. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I'm glad you've tuned in to be with us. Today for Proverbs chapter 2. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help before we turn to His Word. Heavenly Father, you are the one who gives us the words of eternal life. But ultimately show us your Son, Jesus Christ, who is the Word of God made flesh. and our righteousness and our salvation. Would you speak to us through your word today? Show us the wisdom of Jesus as we look at Proverbs 2 together. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Proverbs chapter 2 My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you, making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understand. Yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding, if you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God, for the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity, guarding the paths of justice and watching over the way of his saints. Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity, every good path. For wisdom will come into your heart. and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul. Discretion will watch over you. Understanding will guard you, delivering you from the way of evil. From men of perverted speech who forsake the paths of a brightness, to walk in the ways of darkness, who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perverseness of evil. Men whose paths are crooked and who are devious in their ways. So you will be delivered from the forbidden woman from the adulteress with her smooth words, who forsakes the companions of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God For her house sinks down to death, and her paths to the departed. None who go to her come back, nor do they regain the paths of life. So you will walk in the way of the good, and keep to the paths of the righteous, for the upright will inhabit the land. and those with integrity will remain in it, but the wicked will be cut off from the land, and the treacherous will be rooted out of it. Amen. This is God's Word, Proverbs chapter 2. Proverbs as wisdom literature, it fits into a broader category of wisdom literature that we find throughout Scripture that sometimes referred to as the two ways literature. It's one of the major themes of scripture is that there are only two ways that a human being can ever go in life. You can either walk in the fear of the Lord on the narrow way, listening to and following after the words of life, seeking wisdom and pursuing it, walking in the fear of the Lord Or you can choose to go your own way, follow after the world, follow after the desires of your flesh, and walk paths of destruction. in hostility to God, paths of evil that will lead to eternal destruction. Those are really the only choice you you can be on the path of righteousness that re leads to eternal life, or you can be on the path of selfish wickedness that leads to eternal death. And God, by His grace, is the one who brings you off of the pathway that leads to death and puts you on the pathway that leads to life. But if your eyes have been opened and you are in the Lord, then you need to walk the path that Christ walked perfectly for us as our substitute, Savior, and perfect righteousness. You need to seek after the things that the Lord embodied in his life, which is wisdom. Wisdom in Proverbs is not all about knowing a lot of things, being really smart, having all the right answers. Wisdom is about living right And fundamentally, biblically, wisdom is about walking on the path of righteousness in the fear of the Lord growing in reverence for the Lord and love for other people, and not going on the path that leads to destruction on the path of foolishness. So you see this again and again in the book of Proverbs, both in these longer sections that are the introductory chapters to the book, and then later we'll get into the the heart of the book of Proverbs where you have a lot of those two-line little sayings and very often what they do is they contrast the two ways. The way of the wise is this, the way of the foolish is this, the way of the wise man is this, but the way of the scoffer is this So here, this is a father speaking to his son, and he's calling his son to pursue wisdom and to seek after the knowledge of God. The Lord is the one who gives wisdom, verse 6. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding So there are really three words that are used in Proverbs to describe knowing and living according to the truth of God. There is knowledge where we know the truth of God. There is understanding where we where we really see the why behind the truth of God. We understand the reasoning behind God's truth. But then there's wisdom, which is discernment and the ability to accurately walk according to the truth of God. So you can kind of think it moves from your head to your heart to your feet in a sense It moves from having the knowledge to really understanding, which is more of a sense of, I get it, I get why this is important. It matters to me too. And then it changes our life. Then we learn. to walk in it. And it's so important that we walk in the way of wisdom. And there are people who will try to draw us away from the way of wisdom. There are people who are walking in the way of evil. There are men of perverted speech. And there are women of forbidden ways. The men of perverted speech are those whose paths are crooked who are devious in their ways and they're wanting to tell us, just lie a little bit, just cheat a little bit, just steal a little bit. And then there's the woman of forbidden ways who is inviting us into sexual immorality. And her house sinks down to death. Her paths to the departed. The way of adultery, the way of sexual immorality, the way of deception, the way of deviousness, it may seem exciting, it may seem fun, it may seem stimulating in the moment. Oh, but it leads to death. It leads to eternal consequences in many cases. You see, sin always takes us farther than we mean to go. always keeps us longer than we mean to stay, and always costs us more than we were ever willing to pay. And that's personified here in the adulteress woman. She takes you farther than you ever wanted to go, all the way down to death. She keeps you there longer than you ever wanted to stay until you're dead. And she costs you more than you ever wanted to pay, your very life But if you will listen to wisdom, if you will know the fear of the Lord, if you will walk according to the Lord's ways, you will walk in the way that is good and keep to the paths of the righteous Where do we see Jesus in Proverbs chapter 2? Well, very simply, he was the perfect embodiment of wisdom. He's the only one who took every single step of his life on the path of righteousness. and never deviated from it for one millisecond. And so he's laid down footsteps for us to walk in. That's why Jesus calls to us and says, follow me. He is our example. But he is also our righteousness, because we depart from the way, and he walked the way of life for us. Let's pray Father, thank you for Lord Jesus, our Savior. Thank you for his wisdom. Thank you for his perfection. Thank you for his righteousness, which is ours By your Holy Spirit and through your word would you guide us in the path of life to follow after Jesus in the way we should go. We pray this in Jesus' name.