Dad, let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to Proverbs chapter 4 today. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for your faithfulness to us that is unfailing, unending, strong and true. We love you because you first loved us. We can hear from you because you have chosen to speak to us. So speak to us now by your Spirit. Write your word on our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Proverbs chapter 4. Hear, O sons, a father's instruction, and be attentive that you may gain insight. For I give you good precepts. Do not forsake my teaching. When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother, He taught me and said to me, Let your heart hold fast my words, keep my commandments, and live. Get wisdom, get insight. Do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth. Do not forsake her, and she will keep you. Love her, and she will guard you. The beginning of wisdom is this get wisdom. And whatever you get, get insight. Prize her highly, and she will exalt you She will honor you if you embrace her. She will place on your head a graceful garland. She will bestow on you a beautiful crown. Hear, my son, and accept my words, that the years of your life may be many. I have taught you the way of wisdom. I have led you in the paths of uprightness. When you walk, your step will not be hampered, and if you run, you will not stumble. Keep hold of instruction. Do not let her go. Guard her, for she is your life Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in the way of the evil. Avoid it. Do not go on it. Turn away from it and pass on, for they cannot sleep unless they have done wrong They are robbed of sleep unless they have made someone stumble. For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence. But the path of the righteous is light like the dawn, which shines brighter and brighter until full day. The way of the wicked is like deep darkness. They do not know over what they stumble My son, be attentive to my words, incline your ear to my sayings, let them not escape from your sight, keep them within your heart, for they are life to those who find them, and healing to all their flesh. Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life. Put away from you crooked speech, and put devious talk far from you Let your eyes look directly forward, and let your gaze be straight before you. Ponder the path of your feet. Then all your ways will be sure. Do not swerve to the right or to the left. Turn your foot away from evil. That's Proverbs chapter 4 in the English Standard Version. And as always, we're using esv. org to display the text on screen. Get wisdom! That is the opening call of Proverbs chapter 4. It's given in a very warm, familial tone from a father to his sons And he recalls his own young, young days when he was a son with his father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother. These are the words of Solomon, and so he's recalling the days when he was young, his mother was Bathsheba, and So David his father and Bathsheba his mother, and he was the only one in the sight of his mother. No, this he doesn't say the only one in the sight of his father, because David had lots of older children, but in the sight of his mother he was the only one. And David taught him and said, Let your heart hold fast my words, keep my commandments and live. Get wisdom, get insight. And then later Solomon says, the beginning of wisdom is this. Get wisdom, and whatever you get, get insight. So you see those two together. Get wisdom, get insight. Get wisdom, get insight. Wisdom, as Proverbs defines it and applies it, is skill for living. The Hebrew word wisdom literally means skillful fingers, but it is skill for living And it encompasses knowledge, understanding, insight, discernment, and it applies them all to life Here it's closely associated with insight. So you think you have to have knowledge and you have to have understanding, but insight is the ability to apply that knowledge and understanding to your life. Another synonym for that is discernment. You can discern between good and evil, between right and wrong, between that which is good and that which is better and that which is best. Which is a part of discernment, and that's what wisdom is. But the wisdom of God is ultimately personified in Jesus Christ. God the Son, the second person of the Trinity, is the Word of God, as John tells us in John chapter 1 and in 1 John 1. And the Word of God, the Logos, that Greek word that's translated word logos, can also be understood as wisdom. It is the logic, the wisdom, the architecture, the the the structuring ordering principle of God's creation and that is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the wisdom of God personified and the wisdom of God incarnate. And so ultimately for us to get wisdom and get insight is to get Christ and Christ-likeness Jesus Christ was the wisest man who ever lived. Sometimes I hear Christians say, Solomon was the wisest man who ever lived. You need to say, except one because obviously Solomon was not wiser than Jesus, right? So Jesus is the wisest man who ever lived. He was the very embodiment of wisdom. And for us to get wisdom and get insight is to get Christ and to get Christ-likeness. Wisdom is more to be valued than anything We have seen celebrity and professional athlete and singer and lottery winner one after another after another get lots and lots of money. And spend it as quickly as it comes in. Um a friend of mine last night, the night before I recorded this Uh last night we were talking and he was telling me about Shaquille O'Neal, Shaq, and how when he signed with the Lakers he had like a $20 million uh signing bonus and he spent it within a week. Within a week of being in Los Angeles, he had spent twenty million dollars. And Mike Tyson made two hundred and fifty million dollars in prize money. Just the person, not any endorsement deals or any sponsorship deals, just the prize money from his fights was over two hundred and fifty million dollars and he had to file for bankruptcy. And he had millions and millions of dollars in debt and very little uh in the way of assets. Michael Jackson, same thing. He was he A large part of his income came from holding the Beatles song catalog rights, but he had millions and millions and millions of dollars, but he spent it all. You you can never make enough money to fill the hole in your soul and you will always overspend it. What is far more valuable than money is wisdom. Wisdom is a prize and a crown that is greater than anything the world can offer. So one of the things that wisdom would tell you is to watch your feet. That's a very dominant theme in Proverbs chapter 4. Keep an eye on your feet and also guard your heart. What does that mean? Your feet. Where are you walking? In other words What is your lifestyle? Who are you keeping company with? What are the decisions that you're making? What are the paths in which you are walking? Are you walking in the way of wisdom? Are you walking in the paths of the upright? Or are you departing from that? You're not, you know, staying to those paths, and you're departing off into the path of the wicked and the way of the evil. Much of this will be determined by the company that you keep. He says, do not go in the way of the evil, avoid it, do not go on it, turn away from it, and pass on, for they cannot sleep unless they have done wrong. They are robbed of sleep unless they have made someone stumble. So he's advising his sons here not to have close companions. close friends who are wicked and foolish. It's been said that we become like the five people we spend the most time with. Bad company corrupts good character, Paul will write in Romans. And so we need to be aware. of who it is that we are closest to, who it is whose advice we take to heart. Solomon's son Rehoboam, who received this instruction, He grew up, and the close company he kept was in fact a company of fools, despite the advice that his father Solomon had given him, and they gave him bad advice, and it cost him his kingdom. So we need to watch carefully who we spend time with. We do also need to guard our hearts Verse 23. Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life. The heart in biblical terms is the center and the core of who we are. It doesn't, heart in the Bible doesn't primarily refer to our emotions. So when he says keep your heart, he doesn't mean keep your emotions in check, although you should keep your emotions in check. He means keep watch over the core of your being, who you are. and the decisions that you make and why you're making them, because that is going to determine your life. From it flow the springs of life. So watch your feet and watch your heart. How can we watch our feet and watch our heart and get wisdom? Following Jesus carefully and closely. If we become like the five people we spend the most time with, how about making sure we spend the most time with Jesus? Not only in his word first thing in the morning, but talking to him throughout the day, considering his word and his advice as most valuable and most important in every situation. Be attentive to the words of our heavenly father. Rehoboam turned out to be a fool because he neglected the words of his earthly father Solomon. We need to attend to the words of our Heavenly Father, and we need to attend to the company of Jesus, and to keep our eyes directly before you, verse 25, and let your gaze be straight before you. Let's fix our eyes on Jesus, Hebrews 12 says. If our goal is to be in heaven where Jesus is, let's fix our eyes on Jesus and run after him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for being our Father, for calling us to life in Christ, for giving us salvation and wisdom and a pattern for living that are found in your Son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us to keep company with the King of Kings and the wisest man who ever lived. By your Holy Spirit may we walk faithfully with the Lord, with our Savior. It's in his name that we pray.