Good morning, Pastor Jason Van Lemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're coming to the end of the book of Proverbs. Here we are in Proverbs 31. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, all parts of your word have been such a benefit of blessing a prophet to us over these past three years We've learned wisdom from Proverbs. We've learned how to pray and worship from the Psalms. We've been confronted with the words of the prophets. We've been comforted with the gospel. As we close out the book of Proverbs, would you speak to us through Proverbs 31? Bring your word home to our hearts that we might see and love and follow Jesus more. We pray this in his name. Amen. Proverbs chapter 31 The words of King Lemuel, an oracle that his mother taught him. What are you doing, my son? What are you doing, son of my womb? What are you doing, son of my vows? Do not give your strength to women Your ways to those who destroy kings. It is not for kings, O Lemuel. It is not for kings to drink wine, or for rulers to take strong drink. lest they drink and forget what has been decreed, and pervert the rights of all of the afflicted? Give strong drink to the one who is perishing, and wine to those in bitter distress Let them drink and forget their poverty and remember their misery no more. Open your mouth for the mute, for the rights of all who are destitute. Open your mouth, judge righteously, defend the rights of the poor and needy. An excellent wife who can find. She is far more precious than jewels. The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and not harm all the days of his life. Sorry, all the days of her life She seeks wool and flax and works with willing hands. She is like the ships of the merchant. She brings her food from afar. She rises while it is yet night. and provides food for her household and portions for her maidens. She considers a field and buys it. With the fruit of her hands she plants a vineyard She dresses herself with strength and makes her arms strong. She perceives that her merchandise is profitable. Her lamp does not go out at night. She puts her hands to the distiff, and her hands hold the spindle. She opens her hand to the poor and reaches out her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household are clothed in scarlet. She makes bed coverings for herself. Her clothing is fine linen and purple. Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. She makes linen garments and sells them. She delivers sashes to the merchant. Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she laughs at the time to come. She opens her mouth with wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue. She looks well to the ways of her household, and does not eat the bread of idleness. Her children rise up and call her blessed. Her husband also, and he praises her. Many women have done excellently, but you surpass them all Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. Give her the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates. Amen. That's Proverbs 31. Wine, women, and song is kind of an old way of speaking of the things that delight men and also tempt men and lead men astray. Wine that makes men intoxicated and blurs their judgment. Women who are beautiful and alluring and who can lead men into sexual immorality, unfaithfulness, and foolishness. song, the idea that you just are charmed by what sounds good, by what is beautiful and not necessarily what is true and right and good. Anyways, Proverbs 31 is ending the book of Proverbs with a specific address against two at least, if not more, uh, of these temptations. And that is wine and women, the wrong kinds of women. And so uh we actually go from women to wine. In verse three, King Lemuel. Who is King Lemuel? Nobody knows. Nobody knows that Who this person is. Um It could be a nickname for Solomon. That's one possibility. So If so, these would be like the words of Bathsheba, who would have some experience with these things, and advising her son against these things and In that case, it's perhaps a foreshadowing of some things that would fall to Solomon and snare him up, or it could be just a king that we don't know anything about. Um it's possible that he wasn't an Israelite at all, that he wasn't one of the kings in the line of David or he's certainly not listed in either the kings of Judah or Israel. So he's either some Gentile king that we don't know of, or it could be a nickname or something like that for one of the kings we do know about, possibly Solomon. Certainly most of Proverbs is associated with Solomon, so I don't know. Nobody knows for sure. But what we do know is that his mother has some great words of wisdom for him. And it begins with this question of what are you doing? How many times you know, I have children. I have children who are twenty, seventeen, and fifteen. And so how many times I think do parents ask their kids, what are you doing? Um what are you doing? So three times it's asked, What are you doing, my son? What are you doing, son of my wound? What are you doing, son of my vows It it's this frustration of seeing someone you love, someone you've raised, going astray. And in this case, uh this this son, Lemuel, is being drawn astray by women and wine Do not give your strength to women, your ways to those who destroy kings. It's not for kings, Olemuel, it's not for kings to drink wine, or for rulers to stake take strong drink. These are the things that appeal to the flesh of a man Right? A beautiful woman, some wine to to make the heart glad. And of course there's nothing wrong, there's nothing inherently wrong with a beautiful woman or with wine. The psalmist says that in Psalm 104 that God gives wine to gladden the heart of man. But anything good If it becomes too important to us, becomes an idol, becomes a snare, leads us astray. And so it is with wine and strong drink. If it's too important to you, if you over-indulge, you drink and forget what's been decreed. You can be manipulated by deceitful advisors into perverting the rights of the afflicted. Instead, there needs to be a focus on justice. There needs to be a focus on justice. We need to be careful of those things that are intoxicating and distracting. There are other things, of course, that can be intoxicating and distracting. Social media can be intoxicating and distracting. Some political political discourse and, you know, talk radio podcasts, cable news programs can be both intoxicating and distracting because they can puff us up with a sort of a self-righteous pride and get us angry and distracted. So the the lesson here is not just about wine, although wine is a big thing. Alcohol is a big thing. I know it's It can lead many, many people astray, but it's more about the things that dull your senses, that cloud your judgment, and that lead you away from justice and righteousness. On the contrast, instead of the pretty young women who might be pouring the wine on behalf of a crooked advisor who wants to lead the king astray, Instead of the things that appeal to the flesh, how about an excellent wife? An excellent wife. who is far more precious than jewels. This final wisdom poem here, starting in verse 10, going to the end, is an acrostic poem. Each verse begins with a successive letter of the Hebrew alphabet, and it begins and ends with mentioning the woman's excellence. Verse 10, an excellent wife who can find. And then down in verse 31, she is a a she's a woman who is to be praised. Sorry, verse 30 is really weird. She's a woman who's to be praised, which is she's excellent. She's excellent. Um she is worth committing to. And worth trusting. The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain. So the number one thing that's really prized up front here is a trustworthy woman. A woman who is reliable, a woman who is diligent, who is hardworking, who is faithful, who is trustworthy. Charm is deceitful and beauty is fleeting, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. That's where this is going in the end. It's more important to have a wife of good character, who is diligent, who is faithful, who is hardworking, who is Industrious who is fearing the Lord. Now, there's a double meaning to this final poem as well. Sometimes This can be misused. So I'm going to talk to this for a minute. Be a Proverbs 31 woman. Sometimes this can be misused. This can be looked at as a list of requirements And that young women preparing for marriage can be pressured to be all of these things. And if you look at this, really read it, really think about it, it's It's pretty hard. Like it's pretty difficult to near impossible to fulfill all of these things perfectly. Getting up early in the morning, working hard. Also being savvy in business, considering a field, buying it. Also being good with the works of your hands so that you can make things, that you can sell. to merchants. That's a lot. And being trustworthy and having godly character can be overwhelming. And sometimes this has been used to sort of pressure, intimidate, beat up discourage young women or wives for not measuring up. This is an ideal. This is an ideal standard. In many ways What Proverbs is doing here at the end is giving us a picture of wisdom. Wisdom was personified in the early chapters of Proverbs as being a woman who calls out to those who are wayward and says, Come in here, I have food prepared, a banquet where you can feast. And folly is saying, well let's go steal some food. And we can eat it in secret and that'll be fun, right? So there's a difference between lady wisdom and lady folly from the early chapters of Proverbs. And in many ways, we're wrapping up by coming back to Lady Wisdom. This excellent wife is an ideal, and yes, it very much is for men to say, make sure you're valuing the character of a woman, the godliness of a woman, the trustworthiness of a woman when you're looking for a wife. But Probably more importantly and probably more supremely than that, it's showing us what it looks like to trust in wisdom and to follow after wisdom. Wisdom would teach us. to be trustworthy. Wisdom would teach us to be diligent and hardworking. Wisdom would teach us to be discerning and careful. Wisdom would teach us that hard work, faithfulness, perseverance, preparation are all more important than living for the moment, having fun, and not worrying about tomorrow. So I do think that this is From a mother to a son, a picture of the kind of woman to look for to marry. But it shouldn't be looked at as an absolute requirement list of Every godly woman needs to meet all the standards of this poem because it's pretty nearly impossible to measure up to every one of these things. Rather, it should be seen as an ideal, and an ideal that's ultimately pointing us beyond any human being to wisdom herself. And in that way, the call to wives as well as to husbands and children is to live a life that is in line with wisdom, to listen to the voice of wisdom, to imitate and follow after wisdom. And where does wisdom begin? Well, Proverbs has taught us already. Wisdom begins with the fear of the Lord. And so charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain. But a woman or man or boy or girl who fears the Lord is to be praised. And in the end, that brings excellence. Excellence for life and for eternity, the fear of the Lord. It brings both an awareness of our sin and our need for forgiveness and salvation, but it also brings a practical understanding that in this life, if you live for the moment, if you give yourself to what feels good, like beautiful women and wine and partying, you're gonna live to regret it. But if you are self-controlled, if you're diligent, if you're faithful, if you're persevering You will benefit in the long run, and so will everyone in your life benefit in the long run. And that I think is the overall call of Proverbs. Character matters. The way we live, what we choose to do and not do, what we choose to prioritize, what we say no to, what we say yes to, how we order our lives by the wisdom of God matters. to ourselves and to all those in our lives. So let's heed the call of wisdom by following the one who is wisdom personified, the Lord Jesus Christ. and walk in his ways. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this book of Proverbs. Thank you for the practical advice and the challenging call that it is to our lives. May we walk in wisdom by your grace and for your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name