And we are in Proverbs chapter 5 for a nice dose of wisdom. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word, which is wisdom for life for us. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts and minds, and that we would walk according to wisdom. Of course, Jesus is the wisdom of God, and so help us to walk in Jesus today. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Proverbs chapter 5. My son, be attentive to my wisdom. Incline your ear to my understanding, that you may keep discretion and your lips may guard knowledge For the lips of a forbidden woman drip honey, and her speech is smoother than oil, but in the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword Her feet go down to death. Her steps follow the path to Sheol. She does not ponder the path of life. Her ways wander, and she does not know it. And now, O sons, listen to me, and do not depart from the words of my mouth. Keep your way far from her, and do not go near the door of her house, lest you give your honor to others, and your years to the merciless. lest strangers take their fill of your strength, and your labors go to the house of a foreigner, and at the end of your life you groan. when your flesh and body are consumed, and you say, How I hated discipline, and my heart despised reproof. I did not listen to the voice of my teachers, or incline my ear to my instructors. I am at the brink of utter ruin in the assembled congregation. Drink water from your own cisterns, flowing water from your own well. Should your streams, should your springs be scattered abroad, streams of water in the streets? Let them be for yourself alone, and not for strangers with you. Let your fountain be blessed, and rejoice in the wife of your youth. A lovely deer, a graceful doe, let her breasts fill you at all times with delight. Be always intoxicated in her love Why should you be intoxicated, my son, with a forbidden woman, and embrace the bosom of an adulteress? For a man's ways are before the eyes of the Lord, and he ponders all his paths. The iniquities of the wicked ensnare him, and he is held fast in the cords of his sin. He dies for lack of discipline, and because of his great folly he is led astray That is Proverbs chapter 5 in the English Standard Version. As always, we're using crosswaysesv. org for our on-screen display of God's Word. This is Proverbs is written from father to son. We believe this part of it was written by Solomon for his son. And one of the sad realities about Pro Proverbs is you realize it was written by Solomon for his son, and that the son who would take the throne after him is Rehoboam. who is known for his great folly, but also even Solomon himself, here he is writing this advice against adultery. And Solomon might not have been an adulterous man, but he was a polygamist, and he had hundreds of wives, and he married many foreign women, and God's word forbid him to marry those foreign women, and they led his heart astray. Marriage was created by God in the beginning to be an exclusive covenant between one man and one woman for life. And so while when we read the Old Testament, we do see that God allowed polygamy for a season of time, it was never his original purpose. It belongs to the category of things that God temporarily allowed because of the hardness of men's hearts, like divorce, like slavery, and other things, God accommodated himself to the weakness of his people. It it was hard enough getting his people to keep the laws that he did give them. So on some things he softened from what his will would be to what people uh could could handle, I guess. And uh accommodated himself to their weaknesses what Jesus said, right? Jesus said that divorce was given because of your hardness of heart, but from the beginning it was not so. We say the same thing for polygamy. The same thing for slavery. If you want to know God's good purpose for his creation, you have to go back to the beginning and then you have to read the Bible from beginning to end and see What did God create in the beginning? What will God restore in the end? So anyway, marriage. Marriage is an exclusive relationship between one man and one woman. And whatever worms its way in. To divide that covenant relationship, to split up that man and that woman is to be rejected and spermed, keep far away from it. It's deadly. Of course, in our day and age. We have widespread immorality and filth on the internet, on television, and a lot of people, even professing Christians, just go right along with it. You know, they'll they'll watch things that have sexual immorality, uh, you know, full nudity, sexual contact. They'll look at sexually immoral content on the internet and just think, oh well that doesn't really matter. That's just that's just the internet or that's just a movie. But that's part of this adulterous woman call. It it divides you from your bride. It gets you looking at someone who's not your spouse and lusting after someone who's not your spouse. And Jesus said that if you look at a woman with lustful intent, then you've committed adultery in your heart. Your heart needs to belong to your spouse. loyal to that covenant relationship. And if you're not married yet, you need to be loyal to your future spouse. And you need to see that God has someone for you that you need to be patient and wait for and be loyal to even now if you're not yet married. Or maybe God doesn't will for you to be married because not everyone does get married, but Christ is your husband as everyone in the church. Which is another layer of understanding Proverbs 5 is not only is it a call for us to be faithful within our earthly marriages to our spouses, But it's also a call for us to be faithful to our heavenly husband, the Lord Jesus Christ. So even us, those of us who are married, same thing. It's we are to be faithful to Christ James 4 says that our friendship with the world is enity toward God, and in that context calls us adulterous people. He says, You adulterous people, James 4, 4. Do you not realize that your friendship with the world is enity? against God. And so spiritual adultery, which is worldliness, idolatry, as well as physical adultery in our marriage, are both the same thing. It's a lack of faithfulness. It's a lack of covenant, steadfast love, and loyalty. Temptation is tempting for a reason. The forbidden woman, her lips drip honey. Her speech is smoother than oil. It looks good. Temptation looks good. If temptation was ugly. . and obviously evil, then we would stay away from it. . We'd be like, ooh, that's that's obviously evil and and ugly. I'm not gonna have anything to do with that. But Satan comes at us with things that look good, that look attractive, that look even harmless. What's the big deal? But our advice is to keep your way far from her. Do not go near the door of her house. So what does that look like? What does it look like in today's day and age to keep Proverbs 5. 8? Keep your way far from her. Do not go near the door of her house. Maybe that means you need to have some filtering, some monitoring, some firewalls, some blocks put into your house. We use a server-level filter in our house to keep out pornographic material from anywhere within our home network. We need to stay far away from that. And you don't give yourself to another because even though it looks good and even though it's, you know, tempting The truth is that this is death. Right? She is verse 5, her feet go down to death. Her steps follow the path of Sheol. She does not ponder the way of life. Her ways wander. She does not know it. So not only do we stay far away, but then we also draw near to. We draw near to our wives, our husbands. We we make sure that we are intoxicated with the love of our spouse. Be intoxicated always in her love. Verse 19. But don't be intoxicated with a forbidden woman. Don't embrace the bosom of an adulterer. God sees everything and Iniquity is a trap. It is, it ties itself around us in cords of sin and drags us down to the grave. He dies. for lack of discipline because of his great folly he is led astray. So this is a sobering call for us to see the dire consequences of sin. The danger of temptation. It's also a positive call to robust marital faithfulness and delighting ourselves in our spouses And it's also a picture of Christ in that Christ is the incarnation of wisdom. So Christ was completely faithful to his heavenly father and did everything. He never committed spiritual adultery by loving the world or the things in the world or going astray. after temptation. He stayed far away from temptation and he kept his heart loyal to the Lord. And if you're a believer, you have Christ in you, the hope of glory. And you've been given the mind of Christ, and you have the Holy Spirit living in you. And so we can't just willpower it and flush it out, you know, just like I can do this. We have to rely on Christ. His love in our heart, his his thoughts in our mind, his spirit controlling our spirit. That's the path of faithfulness is wisdom, but wisdom applied in the power of the Spirit through Christ in us. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for Christ in us, the hope of glory. Thank you so much for your indwelling Holy Spirit. Thank you so much for such realistic and helpful wisdom. We need to hear it. We need to hear the advice to stay far away from sin and to be loyal to our spouses and to cling to them in love. Help us to be faithful Help us to be strong. Give us the grace by your Spirit to walk in paths of obedience. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.