Let's pray and then we'll dig into Proverbs chapter 3 this morning. Father in heaven, we thank you for your word. It is precious. It is so good. And we are so blessed to be able to study and read your word together. Would you bless our time together and help us to grow in your word? Help us to grow in faithfulness to your word, in obedience to your word and love for you through your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We are here in Proverbs chapter 3. My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments, for length of days and years of life, and peace they will add to you. Let not steadfast love and faithfulness forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. So you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make straight your paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. Honor the Lord with your wealth, and with the first fruits of all your produce, then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting with wine. My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline. or be weary of his reproof, for the Lord reproves him whom he loves, as a father, the Son, in whom he delights. Blessed is the one who finds wisdom, and the one who gets understanding. For the gain from her is better than gain from silver, and her profit is better than gold. She is more precious than jewels, and nothing you desire can compare with her. Long life is in her right hand, in her left hand are riches and honor, her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her. Those who hold her fast are called blessed. The Lord, by wisdom, founded the earth By understanding he established the heavens, by his knowledge the deeps broke open, and the clouds dropped down the dew. My son. Do not lose sight of these. Keep sound wisdom and discretion, and they will be life for your soul and adornment for your neck. Then you will walk on your way securely, and your foot will not stumble. If you lie down, you will not be afraid. When you lie down, your sleep will be sweet Do not be afraid of sudden terror or of the ruin of the wicked when it comes, for the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in your power to do it. Do not say to your neighbor, Go, and come again, tomorrow I will give it, when you have it with you Do not plan evil against your neighbor, who dwells trustingly beside you. Do not contend with a man for no reason when he has done you no harm. Do not envy a man of violence, and do not choose any of his ways, for the devious person is an abomination to the Lord, but the upright are in his confidence The Lord's curse is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous. Toward the scorners, he is scornful. But to the humble he gives favor. The wise will inherit honor, but fools get disgrace Amen. That is Proverbs chapter 3 in the English Standard Version. Now we have to address a little bit about what a proverb is or what proverbs are. These are wisdom literature Wisdom literature is skill for living, living well, living in harmony with God's Word, living in harmony with wisdom. Wisdom Literally in Hebrew means skillful fingers, but that's not really necessarily a helpful way. It's basically living according to the truth of God. Which flows from the character of God. Now there are promises that are given for those who live wisely, right? Do not forget my teaching, let your heart keep my commandments, for length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you. Now a proverb, when a proverb promises something, it is a proverbial promise. Now what does that mean? Well, it means that generally speaking In the economy of God's world, as God has made his world, God has woven moral consequences throughout the fabric of his creation. The principle of sowing and reaping. If you sow righteousness, you reap eternal life. If you sow wickedness, you reap destruction. If you sow folly, you reap folly, if you sow wisdom, you reap a harvest of righteousness and a harvest of blessing, because it's better to live according to wisdom than according to foolishness, as a general rule, within the pattern of God's creation. This is not a guarantee for how to live to be 120 years old and die a millionaire. And at peace and never have conflict with anyone your whole life long. It's not given to us for that reason. And thinking about the Bible that way is actually thinking according to foolishness. Think about the apostles. None of the apostles lived to be particularly old men except for the Apostle John, who was the last of the apostles by more than twenty-five years after the others had been killed. They were killed. They were beheaded and sawn in two and went through with the sword and crucified upside down. And just they didn't have a good end. They didn't have peace and they didn't have length of days. But yes, they did. Because the other thing we need to remember in the Proverbs is that the promises God makes are ultimately kept in eternity. And this is something that we always need to keep in mind whenever we're dealing with uh God's Word. God's Word gives us promises that are ultimately kept in eternity. That doesn't mean they're not real. They are real, but they are not 100% always kept and realized within the confines of this life, which is a temporary life in a fallen world. So all that to say Don't take Proverbs as if I do these things I will have my first million dollars before I'm 30 years old No one will ever be mad at me and I will die at 120 years old without any disease in my body. Like that's a way that some people have interpreted the Bible And that's really self-serving, and that's really earthly and fleshly and unspiritual, that's really lacking in perspective, and it's lacking in faith, really. It's really sort of treating God like a magic genie in the lamp or an ATM in the sky. How do I get what I want from God? God has something far better for us. And that may mean a life of suffering and rejection. Jesus said, if the world hates you, keep in mind it hating me first, right? Maybe conflict for those who follow the Lord Jesus. Paul said, everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. as evil men go from bad to worse. So we need to keep things in perspective. In eternity, though, God will make things right, and so there will be length of days and years of life and peace added to all of those who walk in God's ways forever and ever, not just for 120 years. That's too short-sighted. You know, 120 million years from now, I will be younger and healthier and happier than I am today That's how God answers our expectations in ways that are greater than we expect. So what does God call us to here? Well, love, steadfast love and faithfulness. Let them not forsake you. bind them around your neck. Who's steadfast love and faithfulness? Well if you know the scriptures, you know that these are attributes of God. God's steadfast love, God's Hasid God's covenant loyal, faithful love to those who are his own, who don't deserve anything from him, but who receive from him blessing upon blessing. That is what we are to not We're to keep close. God's steadfast love. God's faithfulness is God's commitment to keep his promises and always do what he says to do. We should keep those close to us. We should treasure those. And then we should imitate those in the way that we treat others. We should treat others with the khasa that we receive from God, with the steadfast love that God gives us. We should give that to those. that we've made covenant promises to. We should keep our word and not change, because God keeps his word and he doesn't change. And so you will find favor and good success in the sight of God. Amen. Ultimately it's trust in the Lord with all your heart. Don't trust in yourself. Don't be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord. Fear the Lord means to, with trembling and reverence and awe Put all of your weight in the Lord's hands. Let the Lord consume your soul, your thoughts, your mind, your imagination, and trust him. Honor him. Honor him with your wealth. Don't despise his discipline. Sometimes God's going to reprove you when you're going aside. Be teachable. Don't be stiff-necked. Don't be hard-hearted. Take God's discipline for what it is. Don't be resentful when you make a foolish choice and you have a consequence to pay, or when sin leads to sorrow, because God is disciplining you. and correcting you and bringing you back in the right way. All of this God is doing in our lives that we might find wisdom. Because wisdom is what is ultimately worth having. Wisdom is, again, a life lived according to God's word. a life of discernment, a life of understanding, a life of faithful obedience, a life skillfully lived, applying God's word rightly to our lives. And that is the best way to live. Wisdom ultimately reflects Christ, because Christ is the wisdom of God. John 1 refers to Christ as the Logos of God or the Word of God. Another way to understand that Logos is the wisdom of God. So when we read in verse 19 of Proverbs 3, the Lord by wisdom founded the earth, that's Jesus. Jesus is the wisdom of God by which God founded the earth. So it's a it's a powerful and and and priceless treasure. So we're not to lose sight of these, but we are to pursue them. We're to pursue Christ-likeness. Ultimately to walk wisely, to walk according to wisdom, is to be Christ-like And that's a work that only God does in our hearts, but that we need to pursue and that we need to seek and that we need to delight in. The Lord will be our confidence when we walk in wisdom. We won't be afraid because we will fear the Lord, and he who fears the Lord doesn't need to fear anyone else. Part of wisdom here in Proverbs 3 is that you don't withhold good from those to whom it is due. If you can do good to someone, if you can help someone, help them. Don't say, oh, I'd like to, you know, but I can't really help them. Uh to whom it is due. Now be careful, because online, of course, wisdom would tell you that there are many scammers who are trying to get money from you and they have no righteous intent whatsoever. And unfortunately in our social media age a lot of people have found out that a way to get money from people is to pretend that they're a Christian and they want it for Bibles or for a Christian school or for an orphanage. And for the most part, unless you know those purple people personally You don't owe them anything and you should not respond to those requests because nine out nine times out of ten they're scammers who are just taking your money and passing it along to organized criminals. But if you know Christian ministries that are faithful like reaching Africa's Unreached, or you know uh churches that are faithful or or or ministries to the poor that are faithful and you can give to them, you can bless them, then do it Because that's what we're called to do. We don't withhold good from those that we can help, right? We can do good to those. We don't plan evil. We don't contend with a man for no reason. Don't look putting walk around looking to pick an argument. That's another feature of our social media age. People walking around looking to pick fights, don't look to pick fights with people. If they haven't done you any harm, just be kind to people. Don't be devious. Don't be uh stirring up trouble. Right? 'Cause that's living like a fool. Stirring up trouble and looking for uh conflict is living like a fool, not living according to wisdom. And wise inherit honor, but fools get disgraced. So Proverbs is a great book because it teaches us very practically what does it mean to live a Christ-like life? What does it mean to walk? in Christ-likeness, which is to walk in wisdom. So the more we're in Proverbs, the more we can drink in the wisdom of Trusting the Lord, fearing the Lord, honoring the Lord, receiving the Lord's discipline, pursuing the Lord's wisdom, doing good to those that we can do good to. Don't wrong anyone. Don't pick fights with people. Don't be foolish. Be wise. Because this is a good way to live. It's God's recipe for a good life, a life that's blessed by Him because it's lived according to His Word. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word and thank you for your wisdom and thank you for your son who is your word and your wisdom incarnate, our Savior. Help us to walk in wisdom. Help us to walk in Christ's likeness. Now and always we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.