Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Hill. I'm Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church as we're coming out to the end of week 14 of our journey through this wonderful series of questions and answers written in Heidelberg, Germany in 1563 by two men in their twenties. And it's leading us to gospel comfort as we move from guilt through grace to gratitude. Right now we're in the grace section and we're exploring how God provides salvation. By grace through Jesus Christ and what it is that we must believe in order to receive this grace. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we come to question 40 today. Father in heaven. What a great blessing it's been to spend these weeks in this catechism and to be soaking in Scripture and thinking about Christ and thinking about our need and about Christ's provision for that need It's just a wonderful and refreshing time, and we thank you for it. Please teach us today by your Holy Spirit. Please lead us into truth and help us to love you for it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So as we've uh been for a while now and will be for a while, we're in the Apostles' Creed section of the Heidelberg Catechism. That's the longest section of the catechism, walks through the Apostles' Creed. And it started with question 23, and we're in Article 4. Suffer under Pontius Pilate was crucified. And so we're going to be Still on this was crucified today as we come to question number 40. We started with question 38. Why did he suffer under Pontius Pilate as judge? Though innocent, Christ was condemned by an earthly judge, and so he freed us from the severe judgment of God that was to fall on us. That's how we began this week on Monday with this suffering, the justice, the judgment. And we talked about penal substitutionary atonement, penal meaning uh related to judicial things, penalty, punishment, the just penalty that we deserve was placed on him. He freed us from the severe judgment of God. 39 is what we looked at last time. Does it have a special meaning that Christ was crucified and did not die in a different way? And the answer is yes, thereby I am assured that he took upon himself the curse which lay on me, for a crucified one was cursed by God. So Jesus became a curse for us. And then question 40, today we come actually flipping over to Lord's Day 16 here with question number 40. Why was it necessary for Christ to humble himself even unto death? And the answer is because of the justice and truth of God, satisfaction for our sins could be made in no other way. than by the death of the Son of God. This is so important. So some people would say, oh yeah, Jesus did that, but there's probably other ways for God to be satisfied. Well, that's not true. Because of the justice and truth of God Satisfaction for our sins could be made in no other way than by the death of the Son of God. It was what was required, and that's what we're going to be looking at today. This goes back to Genesis 2, 15 to 17. This was the event that made it required. It was the actions of the first man, Adam, in the Garden of Eden. And when the Lord made Adam, this is before he makes Eve as a companion for him. But the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. So, this is the curse that was put on Adam. You shall surely die. The justice and righteousness of God requires that this curse be carried out. And this death is an eternal death, an eternal separation from God, because what man experienced in the Garden of Eden, what was real life, was his communion with God. So some people say, well, Adam didn't really die on the day that he ate of it. Oh yes he did. He died spiritually, and as a sign of that he was put out of the Garden of Eden because he no longer had fellowship with God. And to be out of fellowship with God is to die. spiritually and then he began dying physically on that day as well. So someone has to undo this curse. Someone has to reverse the curse by becoming the curse and it requires Because there's a countless multitude of God's people who need this blessing. It requires one who is of infinite value to take that responsibility, that task upon himself. God gave the law. to his people to show his people what he required, what he was like, what his just and righteous and holy character was like, but we couldn't keep the law And so Romans 8. 3 says, For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do, by sending his own son In the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. You see, we cannot redeem ourselves You can offer up an animal sacrifice, but an animal sacrifice unwilling, unaware, not doing it as an act of willing substitution, not worth you know, uh an infinite amount. So it's it just it's not a possible thing. And then there's no way we can ever be good enough. So the w the law is weakened by the flesh. And it is impotent to save. But God did what the law could not do by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin. Philippians 2. 8 says, of Jesus, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. And then Philippians goes on to say, Therefore God has highly exalted him. But when Jesus came as a human being, he came in order to die, even on a cross, as was foretold in Psalm 22. Isaiah 53, and even in last time we looked at even within the law there was embedded a prophecy of the coming of Christ to hang on a tree for us as the one who was cursed. So he comes. He comes to humble himself. By being obedient to the point of death. And this was not easy. You know, we can hear these words, we can say these words, but this was not an easy thing for Jesus to do in his human nature. He had to come as a man. In human form. As a man, he had to go and humble himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. And that took some doing. Luke 22 gives us a vivid description. of the wrestling of Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane on the Mount of Olives on the night that he was betrayed, on the night when he would be arrested. He came out and went, as was his custom, to the Mount of Olives. And the disciples followed him. And when he came to the place, he said to them, Pray that you may not enter into temptation. And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw and knelt down and prayed, saying, Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done And there appeared to him an angel from heaven strengthening him, and being in agony he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground. ground. This is really the passage that clearly comes to my mind when I think about this concept of was it necessary? for Christ to humble himself even unto death. And then the idea that because of the truth and justice of God, satisfaction for our sins could be made in no other way than by the death of the Son of God. So was it necessary? Yes, there was no other way. And what comes to mind is Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane agonizing before his father, saying, If you are willing. Remove this cup from me. And other gospels will say, if it is possible, remove this cup from me. So if you are willing, if it is possible, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done Now, surely if there was another way, surely if there was another way, if it was possible for atonement for sin to be made in any other way, the Father would have heard the Son. would have been willing to spare him, would have seen that it was not necessary for him to take this cup, but Jesus had to take the cup. There was no other way. For us to be saved. And that is the truth that we must realize how great our sin is. how great our need is, and how great the love of Christ is, that he would say, Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. So was it necessary for Christ to humble himself even unto death? Yes, absolutely. Because of the justice and truth of God, satisfaction for our sins could be made in no other way than by the death of the Son of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are so thankful that you were willing to do what was necessary to save us. Lord Jesus, we know that when you came and died, there was no other way for us to be saved. We cannot earn it. We cannot pay it off. We cannot contribute to it. We needed. We need what you did. Thank you. Thank you for that In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's respond to today's devotional thoughts by singing together, Jesus, thank you. Thomas The other cross I cannot come with The Agnes of God for me Holy one cross your son, who tried to be crossed for me. Your love, I lost away my thing, Jesus thank you, the father's round the wheels that you Once you're speaking at your table, Jesus. Find her five runs where we make your friend. All we have is the love of Lord. Mercy and Christ, no end. And once away by saying Jesus thank you, the ball try me. Jesus thank you once again. I want to live for life. Lover my soul. Jesus praying because meaning that Jesus pray once spread away I see that was a Jesus Your blood. Your blood has washed away. Thank you. Also please honor Jesus thank you. Nasi