All right, Isaiah 43, verse 16, hear the word of God. Thus says the Lord Who makes a way in the sea, a path in the mighty waters, who brings forth chariot and horse army and warrior. They lie down, they cannot rise, they are extinguished, quenched, like a wick. Remember not the former things, nor consider the things of old. Behold, I am doing a new thing Now it springs forth. Do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. The wild beasts will honor me. The jackals and the ostriches, I will give water in the wilderness, rivers in the desert. to give drink to my chosen people, the people whom I formed for myself, that they might declare my praise. Yet you did not call upon me, O Jacob. But you have been weary of me, O Israel. You have not brought me your sheep for burnt offerings, or honored me with your sacrifices. I have not burdened you with offerings, or wearied you with frankincense. You have not brought me sweet cane with money, or satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices, but you have burdened me with your sins. You have wearied me with your iniquities. I I am He who blots out your transgressions for my own sake And I will not remember your sins. Put me in remembrance. Let us argue together. Set forth your case that you may be proved right Your first father sinned, and your mediators transgressed against me, therefore I will profane the princes of the sanctuary and deliver Jacob to utter destruction and Israel to reviling, but now hear, O Jacob my servant, Israel whom I have chosen. Thus says the Lord who made you, who formed you from the womb, and will help you. Fear not, O Jacob my servant, Jeshurn, whom I have chosen, for I will pour water on the thirsty land and streams on the dry ground, I will pour my spirit upon your offspring. And my blessing on your descendants. They shall spring up among the grass like willows by flowing streams. This one will say, I am the Lord's. Another will call on the name of Jacob, and another will write on his hand the Lord's, and name himself by the name of Israel. Heavenly Father, it is so gracious and kind and generous and merciful and abundant. for you to treat us not as our sins deserve, but to forgive us and to cleanse us and to feed us and to give us refreshment. and to welcome us into your family and to give us your own name. These are astounding realities that we just we don't think about them enough, we take them for granted, we don't understand them as deeply as we should. So we pray that right now as we spend time in this passage, That you would write these realities deep in our hearts. That it might change the way we see ourselves, the way we see the world around us, the way we think about you, the way we go through life every day, that we might realize how blessed we are. And that we might be thankful and worshipful and giving freely, even as we have been given to. Father, speak and move in Jesus. In Jesus' name, Amen. You may be seated. We have a marriage conference coming up just about a month, next month, October 25th to 26th, and looking forward to that. Thinking about marriage, you know, I do some marriage counseling from time to time and have occasion to talk to couples before they get married. When everything is just starry-eyed and wonderful, and how could we possibly have any problems? We're just so in love with each other. And then after Some time of being married. You think, how did I get into this? One of the greatest things that poisons marriages is when husbands and wives start measuring in their minds. How much they're putting into the marriage relationship versus how much they're getting out of it. They might come to the place where one or both of them say, this doesn't feel like an equal relationship anymore. I'm putting in way more than I'm getting out. Well, if you learn anything from the Bible, it should be that love isn't keeping score. And it isn't aiming for equality to get as much as it gives. Love gives freely in response to a need. In 1990, J. Robertson McWilken stepped down from serving as the president of Columbia Bible College in Columbia, South Carolina. He did so to care for his wife, Muriel, who was suffering from Alzheimer's. She had early onset Alzheimer's, and it had progressed to the point where she needed full-time care Now the college had agreed to pay for someone to be home with Muriel when Robertson went to work But Muriel was upset, she was confused, she only felt at peace when her husband was with her. She didn't recognize anyone else, she didn't want to be with anyone else. So she would she would escape. She would look for opportunity to get out of the house and she would walk the half mile to her husband's office. in bare feet and in often in her nightgown and there were rocks along the path and her feet would get cut up and sometimes she would do that multiple times a day because she just needed to be near her husband And so Robertson said, I need to resign my office, I need to retire, I need to go home, and I need to be with my wife. And so he stepped down from a decades-long ministry in which he had served as the head of a Christian school, a missionary to Japan, a pastor, and the president of Columbia Bible College. He took this prominent public ministry and set it aside to care full-time for his wife. It took two hours to feed her She needed full care in every way, and so he would stay home and bathe her and change her. And he was asked What caused him to make this sacrifice to care for his wife? And he said, honestly, I never thought about it as a sacrifice. I didn't think I really had any other choice. How could I possibly leave my wife to be in fear while I went and spoke and wrote and traveled? I needed to be with her. The McCrilkins marriage is a powerful picture of the bride of Christ and our relationship to the Lord. Our hearts have no peace unless we are with our Lord. Jesus said, in the world you will have tribulation. But take heart, I have overcome the world. In me you will find peace. I will give you my peace. We find peace when we are with the Lord. And the Lord does whatever it takes to bring us to Himself and to be with us. He sacrificed everything to be with us. He didn't just give up a college presidency or a public ministry. He gave up the glories of heaven. He gave up the intimate fellowship that he enjoyed with his father. He gave up the worship of angels. He gave up this eternal glory to come from heaven to earth and not only become human, which is such a step down that we can't even comprehend it, But also to become obedient and to learn how to suffer and obey, even to the point of dying a cruel death on a Roman cross, and to suffer the wrath of God. due to us for sin. Now ultimately this calling is not only for the McWilkins Christ and his relationship with the church, it's not a 50-50 endeavor. Jesus doesn't say, I'll give you uh these five things and then when you give me a five equal things in return, I'll come back and give you a five more equal things and you give me five more equal things in return. He sees our need, he sees us in desperation, and he simply pours himself out. And that is what our marriages are called to be like. That's what we're called to be like as believers. If Jesus did that for us, we're called to allow that to overflow from our lives into the lives of those around us. And we get this picture painted for us in this passage as God is reminding his people of what he's done in the past and promises what he's going to do in the immediate future and then what he's ultimately going to do and how that's going to bless them. and bless those around them. So back to our passage, 4316. Thus says the Lord, who makes a way in the sea, a path in the mighty waters. Who brings forth chariot and horse, army and warrior, they lie down, they cannot rise, they are extinguished, quenched like a wick. Remember not the former things. Nor consider the things of old. Behold, I am doing a new thing. Now it springs forth. Do you perceive it? Do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert. The wild beasts will honor me. The jackals and the ostriches, for I give water in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, to give drink to my chosen people, the people whom I formed for myself. that they might declare my praise. The Lord starts off here in verses 16 and 17 by having them remember the Exodus out of Egypt. To this point in the history of God's people, that was the greatest deliverance that God had ever done, really for anybody ever. He parted the Red Sea, his people walked through on dry land, and then the sea came and drowned the entire Egyptian army. And God here highlights the horses and chariots of the army because In the recent history of his people, they were continually looking to Egypt for those forces and chariots to be the thing that would deliver them from the nations that threatened them. The Assyrians threatened them, and then the Babylonians threatened them, and they said, Oh, if only we could get those chariots and horses from Egypt Then we would be saved from these foreign powers that threaten us. And what they didn't do is they didn't desperately call out to the Lord, except the one time when Hezekiah had no other option And he turned to the Lord in desperation, and God said, Let me show you what I can do. And he wipes out 185,000 Assyrian soldiers in one night. But you know what? Immediately after that They go right back to plotting to try to get an alliance. They're like, well, Egypt failed us. Maybe we can get Babylon to help us. This is they're just desperate to find some help. And so God reminds them Yeah, that great Egyptian army, all those horses, all those chariots, don't you know I drowned them in the Red Sea? In an instant, I wiped them out? You have the help. of the one who powerfully destroyed the Egyptian army. Why do you think you need the help of the Egyptian army? We serve the God who owns the universe and who rules over every particle and every nation and every power. And yet we think, oh, we've got to have this, and if I don't get that, and how am I going to get through if I don't have this? And God says, trust me. Look to me. And so God reminds them of what he's done in the past, but then he tells them, I'm going to do something new. And there's kind of an immediate new thing that he's going to do, but then there's the ultimate new thing that he's going to do. And as often happens in Old Testament prophecy, these two things kind of are brought together in a way that they sort of blend into each other almost. The immediate new thing he's going to do is he's going to bring them out of their Babylonian captivity. This is written by the prophet Isaiah, but it's written for this future generation that's going to be in exile in Babylon, and what he's what the word to them is Just as surely as I brought you out of Egypt, I'm going to bring you out of Babylon. I'm going to make a way. And I'm going to provide for you. And God does so. God does so in a very powerful way, in that he causes the Babylonian Empire to be conquered by the Medes and the Persians. And the leader of the Medes and the Persians is a guy known in history as Cyrus the Great. And actually in a few weeks Mike is going to preach about Cyrus the Great And he's going to tell us, God names Cyrus as the guy he's going to raise up to bring his people back when Cyrus didn't even born for more than a hundred years. Imagine that, giving you the name of a the greatest ruler in the world, the one who's going to bring back the people of God a hundred years before he's even born. That's a new thing. That's something unforeseen in human history. But I won't take the rest of Mike's sermon. I'll leave something for him But that's the immediate thing, but he's looking past that. Because God's people need something more. We're going to need more than just deliverance from Babylon. We need an ultimate deliverance. That really is going to touch all of creation. So it's it's hinted at, it's echoed at that this deliverance that's gonna come is is gonna touch all of creation. Even the even the beasts of the wilderness. We know that ultimately what God did was he sent his son into the world, and that specifically in the resurrection of Jesus from the dead, there is the beginning of a new creation. A new, completely new way of living, a way that overcomes death. And in the death and resurrection of Jesus, sin and death are overthrown from their their tyranny over God's people and over God's creation because it wasn't just the Egyptians, it wasn't just the Babylonians, it was it's our own sin And our own judgment that we deserve, that is the most severe bondage we're under. And Jesus breaks that. And ultimately that will bring about results that will benefit all of creation. Romans 8 tells us that all creation is eagerly waiting. for the revealing of the sons of God when Jesus comes again, because then creation itself will be delivered from futility to bondage to death and disease and decay and will be brought into everlasting life. And why has he done all this? Why has he done all this? Well, he tells us. Verses 20 and 21, I give water in the wilderness, rivers in the desert to give drink to my chosen people, the people whom I formed for myself, that they might declare my Praise. God blesses us abundantly, undeservedly. Because we need it, and so that we will say, Wow, Lord, you are amazing. Thank you. You are so worthy of praise. And we will fill creation with the sound of his praises. But is that what his people do? Sean talked about this morning. Come to church, you're like, yes, God is so good, I can't wait to praise him. Let's sing. Holy, holy, holy, yes! Sometimes, oh man, it's raining, it's been raining for days, it ever gonna stop raining. I had to swim my way out to my car this morning. Need hip waiters to get into the church building, like I feel down. You know, whenever it rains, I don't know, you wake up on a rainy morning, you just feel like I need an extra cup of coffee just to get out the door. God says to his people You didn't call upon me, O Jacob. You've been weary of me, O Israel. We'll hear about this this morning in Sunday school too when The bronze serpent incident that Jesus talks about in John 3, we read that as Tim was teaching this morning, and the the people were complaining. You know, they first complained, they said, you brought us out here in the desert where there's no food. You just brought us out here to kill us all, so we'll starve to death. And then God miraculously provides them with manna every day Every single day, bread from heaven that they can go out and collect and eat and be sustained and nourished. And years later, they start saying. We are sick and tired of this worthless food. What? The God of the universe is supernaturally feeding you with the bread of heaven, which the Bible refers to as the bread of angels, and you say, we're sick and tired of this worthless food. He says, you've been wearied of me. You have not brought me the sacrifices. What have you brought me, verse 24? But you've burdened me with your sins. You've wearied me with your iniquities. And there's a specific reference here to what to what the Lord's talking about, and that is they they were given this temple And they were given this pattern of worship that would show them their need and that would show them God's provision for their need, and they just needed to come and worship And God would put his blessing on his people, and they were grumbling about it, and they were complaining about it, and they were going in half-hearted, and then the worst thing of all is they would they would be at home Praying to Baal to send them rain, praying to Asherah to bring them the fertility of the crops and of the earth from that rain And then they would go to the temple and they would praise Yahweh. God says, you're not bringing me what I asked you to bring. Instead, you're dragging in your sins and your iniquities because you're worshiping idols over here, and then you come in here and you think that that's okay. And let me tell you, the New Testament doesn't remove this. It actually clarifies it. A passage that I sometimes read when we're sharing in the Lord's Supper is what we're going to do next week. 1 Corinthians 10. Paul says, Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to sensible people. Judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing that we bless. Is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, we're all partakers of the one bread Consider the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be a participants with demons You can't drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You can't partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? What does that mean? Well, you can sit here and say, come on, this is America, this is 2024, I don't have a Baal or an Asherah in my house. You know, the Corinthians would go to the temple of Aphrodite and then they would go to church. I'm not going to a temple of Aphrodite. No, but we still have the problem of idolatry. Behind idolatry, God says, are demons. We almost laugh at that in our modern, sophisticated Western demons. Right. Well that just shows that in our culture the demons wear more clever masks. So we don't recognize their allure because they're just as real and they're just as active. Idolatry is this. Listen, this is so important. Idolatry is fundamentally a question of who or what we are valuing most or putting our trust in. If it's anything other than God, we're worshiping an idol. We're not giving God the praise that He's due. There are secondary things in life. There are things that God has made. There is one creator and there are many created things If we confuse the one creator for the many created things and we look to any of the created things and we start investing in them, the hope and the expectation for joy and for deliverance and for peace that we're only going to find in the Creator, we are committing idolatry. These things could be our freedom, our rights, our families, our entertainments, our jobs celebrities, sports teams, or whatever They can't be primary. We can't say, oh, if I get that promotion, then my life will be good, but if I don't, I don't know what I'm going to do Well, you need to go to the Lord because He's the one who's providing for you. You can't say, oh, depending on how this election comes out, my life is either going to be great or it's going to be ruined. Do you belong to the Lord? What about your millions of brothers and sisters around the world who are faithfully serving the Lord? They don't even have the opportunity to vote in an election. They just have to deal with whatever government they have, and they still have to be faithful and trust God. The Israelites wanted Egypt for its military might and protection to keep them safe Safe. The Corinthians wanted the pagan temple feasts for their social acceptance and economic opportunities to get ahead in life. So what are we looking for? to find security, to find advancement in the world. If it's not the Lord, we need to repent of our idolatry. Because we can't chair in the table of demons and then come next week and partake in the Lord's Supper. It's hypocrisy. God says don't do that. But then here's where the Lord just is amazing. He says all this about what his people have done, but then he says this in verse 25, I, I am he Who blocks out your transgressions for my sake, and I will not remember your sins. That's not what we deserve. That's not what we earned. He says, put me in remembrance. Let us argue together. Bring forth your case that you may be proved right. Your first father sinned. Your mediators transgressed against me. Therefore I will profane the princes of your sanctuary and deliver Jacob to utter destruction and Israel to reviling, but now here O Jacob, my servant, Israel whom I have chosen, thus says the Lord who made you, who formed you from the womb, and will help you. Fear not, O Jacob, my servant, Jeshuran, whom I have chosen, for I will pour water on the thirsty land, and streams on the dry ground. I will pour out my spirit upon your offspring, and my blessing on your descendants. So God says that He says this. You have not done what I've asked you to do. I showed you deliverance. I showed you my power. You've not done what I've asked you to do. You've not worshipped me the way that I should be worshipped. You're worshiping demons instead. But here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to forgive your sin for my own name's sake. And yes, there's going to be judgment God had to take away some of these things that his people were trusting in. We know from Jeremiah and from other places. That as the end was drawing near, and God had said over and over again He was going to send judgment, that the people in Jerusalem began to simply say, as a magic chant, The temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. As if somehow there's no way in the world the Lord would allow Jerusalem to be captured because the temple was there. That had become an idol. Even the temple that God gave them had become then an idol. Because they said, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. And here God says, I'm going to get rid of it. Because you're trusting in that instead of in me. Which is grace. And he says, I'm going to forgive you. And I'm going to refresh you. I'm going to forgive you and I'm going to refresh you. I want us to see there's some interesting details here that show us Christ in ways that you have to read a little bit between the lines, but we're heading for the final servant song in Isaiah 53 where everything will be as clear as can possibly be. Look at verse 27 of chapter 43, 4327. We see the cause of the judgment of God. Your first father sinned. And your mediators transgressed against me, therefore I will profane the princes of the sanctuary and deliver Jacob to utter destruction and Israel to reviling. There's two problems. First, your first father sinned. That's Adam. So Adam sinned. Second, your mediators transgressed against me. So God set up a relationship with his people that was mediated. by prophets, priests, and kings. And they were to stand between God and his people. They were to mediate the worship of God, the law of God, the rule of God. And they were to do so by faithfully representing God to the people and faithfully representing the people to God. Instead what they did was they lined their own pockets with anything they could get out of the people and they misrepresented God So they were the worst of the bunch. And so what we need is to fix this. So we need a new first father, and we need a new mediator. In other words, we need a new Adam and we need a new prophet, priest, and king. And so Jesus comes to do that. He comes to be the Messiah, the anointed one, the covenant mediator, the prophet, priest, and king, who makes a new covenant in his own blood. So far from fleecing the people to line his own pockets, he literally pours out his last drop of blood in order to save his people. And he becomes, in the resurrection, he becomes the firstborn of creation, the firstborn from the dead, the head of a new humanity. The new Adam. And because he does that, because he is the new Adam and the new mediator We get all the blessings that are spelled out in verses 1 to 5 of chapter 44. With, again, starting with those two beautiful words, but now. What do we deserve? Judgment, destruction. Why do we deserve it? Because we've sinned. Hasn't God told us the right thing to do? Of course He's told us the right thing to do. Hasn't he been good to us? Of course he's been good to us. How have we responded to his goodness? By being selfish and stubborn and hard-headed and not worshiping him as he deserves. How does he respond to that? He forgives our sin. He gives us a new head of a new humanity. He gives us a new mediator, and he says, come on, enter into this new covenant with me. I've taken care of your sins. I've taken care of your ancestral problem. I've taken care of your mediator problem. Just come to me. And I'm going to bless you. He says, I made you. He says, I've chosen you. He says, I'm going to bless you and refresh you with my Holy Spirit. He says, I'm going to make you mine forever. You will be called by my name. The benefits and blessings of the new covenant that are pointed to here. are astounding when we consider who God is and who we are and what we deserve and what we get instead. God created us in his own image. He formed us lovingly, tenderly from the womb. He made us to know him, to love him, and to reflect him to the world around us. And when we sinned against him in selfish rebellion, he chose us. He said, I'm going to rescue you from yourself. I'm going to save you from your own self-destruction. I'm going to make you mine. And then he pours out the water. Which is this picture of the Holy Spirit coming and bringing life. Do you guys remember just a couple of weeks ago that the ground was so dry and so hard? I had I had Jeremiah cut the grass and then I went out and I was like, I hope I didn't just kill my entire yard. Because I mean it was dirt. It was dirt And I'm walking around thinking, oh man, this is bad. Well now, like it needs to stop raining so I can cut this grass again because you can you can sit there and watch it grow. That's what water does. It doesn't matter how dry or how hard or how or how thirsty. That's us. We are in and of ourselves, Ezekiel, tomorrow morning in chapter 36 when we're in the devotional. We've got a heart of stone. We're dry. We're bone dry. Because you go from Ezekiel 36 to 37, and we're not just going to have a stone heart. We're going to be a valley of dead, dry bones We are, in and of ourselves, dead, dry. Forget it. Have you ever seen a time-lapse video of what happens in the desert when it rains? It is amazing. It looks like there's nothing there. It looks like there's just absolutely nothing there. And then within hours of the rain coming, there are grasses and flowers and then pools of water into which fish appear and then little salamanders and little tadpools and little like they just it just starts teeming with life. Because the water comes. And God gives us the water is a picture of what His Holy Spirit alone can do. His Holy Spirit comes. And no matter how dry it is, he brings life. So how do we respond? We sang it earlier, Living Waters. If you feel dry, if you feel hard, if you feel like you're just going through the motions, the Lord says, I will pour water on the thirsty land And streams on the dry ground. You go to God and you say, Lord, I'm thirsty. Lord, my heart is dry. The world has worn me out. I need you. I need to worship. I need to spend time soaking in your word. I need to I need to pray. I need to gather with your people. I need to live life in community where we can encourage one another and speak the word of God to each other and build each other up. And God will give the refreshment. He will sprinkle. At first You know, at first you open your Bible and you read, and it may feel like that ground is really hard and dry and you've just got a few sprinkles of water coming across. I'm not sure that's really doing much. But then you keep reading and you pray and you worship and you gather with God's people and you take the Lord's Supper next week and you come to Bible study and you listen to the devotionals and you And you and you get someone in the church that you pray together with regularly and you meet together and you encourage each other and more rain and more rain and more rain falls, and then your heart is tender, and then life comes. That's what we need. We get out in the world, it will wear us out and dry us out. But God says, come. Come and receive from me the refreshment your soul needs. And then a wonderful thing happens because When that desert gets pools of water in it, not only is it softened and bringing forth life, but it's now providing refreshment for others. The birds can come by and get a drink The animals that are migrating through the area can stop and drink. We become a source of blessing. to those around us. Jesus said, whoever believes in me from his heart will flow rivers of living water. It's not just To your heart will flow rivers of living water, but from your heart will flow rivers of living water. And this is where we have to remember, we have to remember That we didn't do anything to deserve the blessing that we received, and God just saw our need and met that need so that when we then have an abundance that can flow out from us, we say Who can I bless? Who can I pray for? Who can I speak a word of encouragement to? Who can I invite out? to breakfast or for coffee so that I can pray for them and speak a word of encouragement to them. Who can I write a note to and put it in the mail? And just be a blessing to them. Who can I give to? And you don't start looking for the people who are deserving. You look for the people who are in need. You never let your giving Jesus said if you only give to people who give back to you, that's kind of what the world does. Instead, you look for people who can't possibly give back to you and you give to them And you give. And as the water flows through and then out, the blessing flows through And then out. And in that God is glorified because we say, Thank you, Lord, it's a joy to be a blessing. And then the people we spread that to say, Thank you, Lord. It's a joy to be blessed, and then to be a blessing. And God is glorified. Let's pray. Father, you are worthy of all of our praise. Of all of our lives. As we give ourselves to you, you refresh us, you pour out water You give us life by your Holy Spirit. You give us peace that surpasses understanding. You give us joy that cannot be found in the world. You give us life. that death cannot extinguish, you give us forgiveness and the removal of condemnation that will never be brought back to us again. You bring us encouragement when we are low, strength when we are weak, correction when we are wandering. You pour out and pour out and pour out. And all you ask of us is that we praise you and that we give it to others. That we praise you and that we give it to others. So may we do this, Father, to the glory of your name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.