Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals I am Pastor Jason from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. God is leading us through these series of questions and answers to find gospel comfort as he moves us from guilt. Through grace to gratitude. We've established very well the truth of our guilt. And now we're we're making our way To where grace can be found. But first, I told you that the catechism does this very carefully and very incrementally before we just get to the cross, which is where we're going, but to make sure that we sweep away all other possible options. Of how we might move from guilt to grace. We know we're guilty, we know that punishment must be made. We know that God's justice can't be set aside. And so how do we go from guilt? To grace. That's kind of where we are. Yesterday, or last time we were together a couple days ago, we said that punishment can be made either by ourselves or by another. But we're going to still be wrestling with this question of who could make this punishment, who could satisfy divine justice. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for the truth of your word and for the way that um Zacharias or Sinus and others brought it together. in this series of questions and answers for instruction, for training up believers. So train us up in the truth today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Okay. So we're going to be on question thirteen today, but first we're going to review question twelve as we typically do. Want to make sure we remember where we were. Since according to God's righteous judgment we deserve temporal and eternal punishment, how can we escape this punishment and be again received into favor. So you see, how do we go? This question is basically asking, how do we go from guilt to grace? How do we go from deserved punishment to received into favor? Well, God's demands of justice must be satisfied. God demands that his justice be satisfied Therefore, we must make full payment, either by ourselves or through another. Now, last time I I just can't help but getting to the cross, because I love getting to the cross. So last time I just rushed us into through another. But but we're going to sort of take a little step back today and ask the question, can we by ourselves make this payment? What if we were to do it? Certainly people have tried, right? This is the sort of old idea of doing penance. That if you do penance enough, you could make payment. Or you could contribute to the payment that is made if you pray enough, if you give enough, if you try enough, if you work hard enough. And it's an old idea, you know, we we might think of sort of medieval Roman Catholicism and and the reason for the Reformation, but it's still a very common idea. It's still a lot of Christians who sort of labor under this burden of we're not worthy, we're not worthy, and instead of just clinging to the cross, they're like, what can I do to be worthy? What can I do to be worthy? And the answer to can we by ourselves make this payment? The answer is certainly not. On the contrary, we daily increase our debt. Anything we do by ourselves is shot through with sin because our motives are sinful. Our desires are sinful and selfish. We're twisted and corrupted on our own. And so the only thing we do on our own, like I can do it, is sin. And the Bible is very clear that our righteous deeds are like filthy rags, and that we cannot make ourselves righteous before a holy God. Psalm 130 says, if you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? There would be no way to stand before the living God if God would mark iniquities, would count our sins. That we commit every day. So what we want is not for God to start counting what we do, but we want Him to forgive it and to cleanse us of it. James 2. 10 tells us whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become guilty of all of it. So we might we might strive, we might say, I'm going to do this, I'm going to work really, really hard, right? And so we're we're going to church, we're praying, we're reading our Bible, we're giving to others, we are watching our mouths, we're watching our eyes, everything, and yet we're coveting. in our hearts or we're discontented, we're grumbling in our spirits. That makes us guilty of the whole law. And the more you try to process that, the more you realize I can't make satisfaction. Because I'm the problem. I need help. I can't do it on my own. And Isaiah 64, 6 is a great verse for this. We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf. And our iniquities like the wind take us away. So it's like, I I know that I've got this guilt, I know that I've got this punishment that I deserve. Let me dress myself up before God. Let me let me cover up my vile offense against God with with good deeds, and our righteous deeds are like a filthy polluted garment. It reeks. It's foul and offensive. All attempts at self-righteousness are On our own, we fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind take us away. All this together is what tells us, can we make ourselves, can we make this payment? Certainly not. On the contrary, we daily increase our debt. So this is something we need to be reminded of because sometimes we get good at being good. If you've been a Christian for a long time, you kind of know how to keep your nose clean, you kind of know how to keep the rules and do the checklist and conform to the standards and expectations. And there's a sense in which you could then slide into a form of legalism in your mindset to say, I'm doing all right before God. I'm I'm kind of I'm kind of making it right. You know, I yeah, I was a sinner, I was a sinner, but now I'm kind of making it right. We need to get rid of that thinking altogether. We ourselves never make satisfactory payment. What's deserved, this full payment? that satisfies justice, this temporal and eternal punishment, could never be paid by us Never, ever, ever. It has to be always and only paid for by Jesus. Let's pray Father, keep us from any hint of a smug self-righteousness where we would pretend like we're the good people and that we are impressing you with our obedience. We never make payment for our sin. All satisfaction belongs to Jesus alone. Thank you that he has redeemed us. Thank you that we can rest in him. We praise you, Father. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're going to respond today to God's word by singing, My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. My hope is built from nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest friend. But holy lean on Jesus' name. Thomas veils his lovely face. I left on his unchanging grace. Every high and stormy gale. Ankle holds within the bell on Christ the stolid rock up stand all over the ground is stinking sandwich. Of the ground is sinking style. Cover into love, done for me in the well in blood. We go around my soul is away, even though On my open stay, on Christmas, all of the loud speaking death, all the ground. Well he shall come with trumpet sound, oh may I then We found just in his righteousness alone, for lest you stand before the growth on Christ. I've got them all currently in King's time All the Quran is thinking all Christ