Good morning and welcome to our Advent 2025 Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Tilbury. Presbyterian Church. We are looking at scriptures and carols this year. And we're here now on our uh seventh, sixteenth day, I guess. We've had three full weeks or sixteenth day, week four, day one. And we're looking at We Three Kings, which was written by an American, John Henry Hopkins Jr. in eighteen fifty-seven. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the times we've had together to Think about your word, to think about the coming of Christ into the world, to think about really look carefully at appreciate these Christmas carols that you've given to your church. So we thank you for this time again this morning and we pray that you bless her time in your word and our time thinking about you. In Jesus' name Amen. Alright, We Three Kings. As I said, it was written by an American, John Henry Hopkins, in eighteen fifty-seven. More about that story later, but it focuses on the visit of the wise men, of course. Now, some people We'll pick on we three kings and say, well they weren't kings and there weren't three of them and they weren't from the Orient. Okay, okay, if you want to be pedantic about it. But what I love about this carol that we'll look at is that it really focuses in on the gifts that the wise men gave. Um, and it's still a very beautiful and powerful Christmas carol. Matthew 2, 1 to 20, 1 to 12. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king. Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? for we saw his star when it rose, and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. They told him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet, and you, O Bethlehem, In the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly, and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him After listening to the king, they went on their way, and behold the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to the place it came to rest over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house, they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down. and worshiped him. Then opening their treasures, they offer him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh. And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way. Now what I want to focus on here is the last part of this passage was when they arrive at the house. They saw the star. They rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. This had been a long journey for them, a thousand miles, probably mostly on foot. Maybe they had ridden camels for part of it, but it's not a quick trip, it's not a highway jaunt, you know, we can get in our cars and drive a thousand miles in a couple of days. This would have taken weeks probably to come this far. And So they come, and when they finally find the place where the child is, they rejoice exceedingly with great joy. I mean, that's such a strong emphasis that Matthew has describing the joy of these men These were scholars, these were wise men. They were sought out by many people for their wise insights, but here they sought out the one who is the source of all wisdom. They sought out the one who was the promised king. Who's the word of God made flesh? And so they go in and they see the child, Jesus, with Mary his mother. And they fall down and worship him. These are the first people recorded in the Bible as worshiping Jesus, explicitly saying that they worshiped him. And they open their treasures. They bring him gifts. They bring him three gifts. This is why we say three kings, right? We don't know if there were three of them. We don't know if there were five of them, two of them, twelve of them. However many there were, they brought three gifts. To me it seems kind of likely that there were three. Each one of them brought a gift, but it could have been more than that or less than that. Gold, frankincense, myrrh. And what I love about the Carol, we three kings, is that it really explores the meaning and the significance of these gifts. Gold, because he's a king. And you honor royalty with gold. Frankincense, because he's God, they're coming to worship him. And so they're offering him frankincense, which is which is what you use in worship. And myrrh, myrrh is a bitter expensive spice that's used for burial. It's a perfume, it has a very strong scent, and it's used for burial because it it covers the odor. of a decaying body. It's very expensive. And actually the wealthier you were, the larger your the amount of myrrh used in your funeral. Um and so the sweeter smelling your you would be in death. And so they give him these gifts, one because he's a king, one because he's God, and one because he's going to die. And so it's a prophecy of the life of Jesus, even in their gifts. And then I love the fact that when they were warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they obeyed. They obeyed the word of God that came to them in a dream, and they went to their own country by another way, defying a very powerful man. Herod the Great was hugely powerful. He had a large standing army. He had built many palaces and fortresses. He was not someone to be messed with. The king gave them a direct order, but they obeyed God when God gave them a higher command. I love the story of the three kings. All right, so the Christmas Carol, We Three Kings, was originally called Three Kings of Orient. It was written in 1857 by an American Episcopal minister, John Henry Hopkins, Jr. He wrote both the lyrics and the music, and he wrote them for a Christmas pageant. He was serving as the first music instructor at the General Theological Seminary in New York City in 1857. This was intended for a Christmas pageant that involved his nieces and nephews. I love that little human touch, right? We got an American music teacher at a seminary, they're doing a Christmas pageant, his nieces and nephews are going to be in it. He wants a song where each person can sing a different verse uh belonging to a different king, right? So if you imagine, right, the old nativity play with the three kings So one verse is sung by one king who brings gold, one verse sung by another king who brings frankincense, one sung by the third king who brings myrrh. So it's written for this Christmas pageant. And it's rare because it's an American carol. And most carols in the eighteen hundreds that were really popular were from Europe. They could have been French carols like Angels We've Heard On High or Medieval Latin carols that were translated into English by John Mason Neal, like Ocumakum Emmanuel, or Ocumwe Faithful. or traditional English carols like God Rest You Mary Gentleman. Right? We've we've looked at that. There's not that many American carols. There is A Little Town of Bethlehem by Phillips Brooks, but that hasn't been written yet. So that's yet in the future. In the eighteen fifty-seven time frame, almost all the popular carols are British or European. This one is an American carol and it becomes worldwide famous. It's also unusual because the same author John Henry Hopkins Jr. , he writes both the words and the music. And again, if you've been following along with our Carol series, that's unusual. Usually it's words by You know, one guy and music by another guy, or words by woman and then set to music years later. Here he sits down and writes the words and the music together. But he was a multi talented guy. He was a theologian, he was an author, he was an illustrator, he was a journalist, he was a musician, and so he did both the words and the music. And he gave a great gift to the church. I like it. It's one of my favorite Christmas carols. Here are the words. We three kings. We three kings of Orient are, bearing gifts we traverse afar, field and fountain. Moor and Mountain following yonder star. I even like as an English teacher. I like the alliteration, Field and Fountain, Moor and Mountain. I like the rhyme scheme is is nice. It's just a nice poem. O star of wonder, star of light, star with royal beauty bright, westward leading, still proceeding, guide us to thy perfect light And then the other verses. Here's the one for the first king, born a king on Bethlehem's plain, gold I bring to crown him again. King forever, ceasing never, over us all to reign. And then the second king, Frankincense to offer have I, incense owns a deity nigh. Prayer and praising, voices raising, worshipping God on high. Then a third king. Myrrh is mine, its bitter perfume, breathes a life of gathering gloom, Sorrowing, sighing, bleeding, dying, Sealed in the Stone Cold Tomb. That's a powerful verse. Even the way it goes sorrowing, sighing, bleeding, dying, sealed in the Stone Cold Tomb. It's brilliant lyrically as well as musically. Glorious now behold him arise, King and God and sacrifice. Alleluia, Alleluia, sounds through the earth and skies. Let's pray. O Lord Jesus, you came to earth as our King and God and sacrifice. And these gifts from these wise men even foretold the life and the purpose and the coming that you brought into the world. Help us to worship you as our God. Help us to serve you as our King. Help us to receive you as our atoning sacrifice. Now and always we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for another one of these Advent Devotionals. Let's listen together now to We Three Kings. We three kings of Orientar, bearing gifts, we traverse afar, field and fountains. And more and mountain following yonder star. Oh star of wonder, star of night, star. With royal beauty bright, west a leading, still proceeding, guide us to thy perfect light. Born a king on pepper and his plane Gold diving to crown him again. King forever ceasing never over a soul to reign, O star of wonder. Star of night, star with royal beauty bright, west to a leading, still proceeding, guide us to thy perfect. Light prank ins to offer how I insist. And songs at the early night, prayer and praising warm and raising worship him God most high. Oh Star wonder, star night, star with royal beauty bright, west to a leading, still proceeding, guide. Merde is mine, it's big. Bitter perfume, breeze of a life of gathering gloom, stars sighing, gleaming, dying, sealed in the stone cold tomb. Oh, star of wonder, star of night, star with royal beauty bright, west relieve. Still proceed and guide us to thy perfect life. Glorious now behold and right, King and God in sacrifice, Aleluia, Aleluia, bird. Oh Star Wonder, Star Knight, Star with Royal Beauty Bright. West relevant still proceeding to guide us to thy perfect life.