Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is our 23rd week, our fourth day. We're in the middle of Luke 7, looking at verses 18 to 35 today and asking this question. What do you want from God? What do you want from God? Got a nice delicious cup of coffee. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us that is faithful, consistent, strong, unfailing, unfading, unbending. We love you because you first loved us. Speak to us now through your word. Show us more of Jesus, our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Luke 7. 18. The disciples of John reported all these things to him, and John calling two of his disciples to him sent them to the Lord, saying, Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? And when the men had come to him, they said, John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? In that hour he healed many people of diseases and plagues and evil spirits And on many who were blind he bestowed sight. And he answered them, Go and tell John what you have seen and heard The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have good news preached to them, and blessed is the one who is not offended by me. When John's messengers had gone, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John. What did you go out into the wilderness to see? a reed shaken by the wind? What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are dressed in splendid clothing, and live in luxury, are in kings' courts What, then, did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face who will prepare your way before you. I tell you, among those born of women, none is greater than John. Yet The one who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. When all the people heard this, and the tax collectors too, they declared God just, having been baptized with the baptism of John But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the purpose of God for themselves, not having been baptized by Him. To what then shall I compare the people of this generation? And what are they like? They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another We played the flute for you, and you did not dance. We sang a dirge, and you did not weep. For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say, he has a demon The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, look at him, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Yet wisdom is justified by all her children. So what do you want from God? Every four years we go through a presidential election in the United States, and during each election it becomes clear that people have widely varying expectations of the president. And frankly, most of the expectations are just unrealistic. If you would combine everyone's expectations, it would seem we want a president who can keep us safe. Make us prosperous, bring harmony to our society, bring peace to the Middle East, increase the real wages of the middle class, end global warming, and probably end all diseases too. Jesus could literally walk on water, feed the multitudes, heal the sick, raise the dead, but he still dealt with disappointed people who felt like he wasn't quite measuring up to their expectations. When was he going to overthrow Rome? When was he going to get John the Baptist out of prison? When would he raise the Jewish people to be the rulers of the world, head of all nations? Many people have been disappointed with God because he has not met their expectations. They expected A better life, an easier life, a more prosperous life, a less painful life, or whatever. Even pastors and ministry leaders can be disappointed in God. as they labor in obscurity and see such little evident fruit from their labors for the Lord. Disappointment can also blind us to the reality of what God is doing right in front of our eyes When two disciples of John the Baptist asked, Are you the one who was to come, or should we expect another? Jesus responded by telling them to take a good look around them. Jesus answered them, Go and tell John what you have seen and heard. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, the dead, the deaf hear. The dead are raised up, the poor have good news preached to them, and blessed is the one who is not offended by me. Sometimes we are tempted to be offended by God His ways are so very different from ours. At those times we need the eyes of faith to see what God is doing in our midst right around us. He is saving the lost. He is healing the broken. He is restoring the fallen and wayward. He is leading his people home to himself. If we can see what he is doing We can stop being offended that God did not dance at our jig or weep at our dirge. Instead, He has done something so much better. Let's look at Psalm 114 now. When Israel went out from Egypt, the house of Jacob, from a people of strange language, Judah became his sanctuary Israel his dominion. The sea looked and fled. Jordan turned back. The mountains skipped like rams. The hills like lambs What ails you, O sea, that you flee, O Jordan, that you turn back, O mountains that you skip like rams, O hills like lambs? Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob, who turns the rock into a pool of water, the flint into a spring of water. This is a great psalm that tells us that God does such a great work of redemption on behalf of his people that far exceeds expectation. And it's shown in bringing them out of Egypt, in bringing them into the promised land, at parting the Red Sea, at parting uh the Jordan River, and at bringing water from the rock, God's ways are higher and better than ours. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you do not meet our expectations. You exceed them so far above and beyond all that we ask or imagine. No eye has seen, no ear has heard, nor has it entered into the imagination of people what you have prepared for those who trust you, for those who belong to you, for those who are your very own. You've predestined us to be conformed to the likeness of your Son. You have cleansed us of all of our sin. You've given us an eternal inheritance that can never perish or fade. Every promise you've ever made is yes in your Son, Jesus Christ. And for that we say amen. Praise the Lord. Forgive us when we try to fit you into our little box of our petty expectations, of our temporary conveniences, and miss the greater things that you are doing We thank you and praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope today's devotional was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.