Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better and Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. The second day of week 15 brings us to Mark 4, verses 1 to 20, and we're going to be praying Psalm 73. Let's uh in in Mark four, we're going to be asking this question. What does real salvation look like? Let's Pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for this time we can spend together in your word. Please teach us by your Holy Spirit. Please grow us in our love for Jesus and our love for your word. In our obedience to you out of faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Mark 4, 1-20. Again he began to teach beside the sea, and a very large crowd gathered around him. So that he got into a boat and sat in it on the sea, and the whole crowd was beside the sea on the land, and he was teaching them many things in parables And in his teaching he said to them, Listen, behold, a sower went out to sow. And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it Other seed fell on rocky ground, where it did not have much soil, and immediately it sprang up, since it had no depth of soil, and when the sun rose it was scorched, and since it had no root it withered away Other seed fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no grain. And other seeds fell into good soil and produced grain. growing up and increasing and yielding thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold. And he said, He who has ears to hear, let him hear And when he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parables, and he said, To you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God. But for those outside everything is in parables, so that they may indeed see but not perceive, and may indeed hear but not understand, lest they should turn and be forgiven And he said to them, Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables? The sower sows the word. And these are the ones along the path where the word is sown. When they hear, Satan immediately comes and takes away the word that is sown in them. And these are the ones sown on rocky ground, the ones who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy. And they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while, then when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately they fall away. And others are the ones sown among thorns. They are those who hear the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. But those that were sown on the good soil Are those who hear the word and accept it and bear fruit thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold? Today's passage features one of Jesus' most important parables, the parable of the four soils. It's recorded in all three synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. We can tell it's his most important. Because he asks his disciples, do you understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables? So what makes this parable so important? It's because it reveals to us the essence of what a saving response to the gospel looks like. So Mark places it here as the first parable in his gospel. Matthew and Luke place it in different places. But Mark's putting it here because it really is the key for understanding all the rest of the parable. So what does it tell us? Whenever anyone hears the gospel, they can respond in one of four different ways. First, they can just completely ignore or miss the message. Jesus says that these people have the word stolen from them by Satan before it can find any soil and take any root. These people can be the most puzzling to understand because they sit and hear the life-changing message of salvation in Jesus. and yet don't really hear it at all. The second response is those who can respond with enthusiasm to the free offer of forgiveness and eternal life, and profess faith in Jesus as their Savior, only to quickly fall away as soon as it becomes difficult. Some of these may be people who respond to an invitation at the evangelistic meeting, but never join a church or pursue discipleship. The third is those who respond with a profession of faith and who begin on the path of discipleship only to get so distracted by the cares and the riches of the world that they are caught up in any one of a number of things that can just take them away from Christ. But they end up abandoning the gospel and the church and their faith for worldly matters, either something that's troubling and distressing them or something that's enticing them and alluring them. But fourth, finally, are those who by God's grace hear the gospel, respond in saving faith. They truly trust in Christ alone for their salvation. for forgiveness, for righteousness, for eternal life. They profess Jesus as their Lord and King, and they join the church, grow in their faith, bear fruit in their lives to the glory of God. This fourth group, and only this fourth group has found real salvation in Christ. So how can you know if you are in this fourth group and not the second or third? Many Christians struggle with identifying with the third group or feel that the word is being choked out in their lives by worldly cares. But every garden needs weeding. In fact, I just did some weeding in my garden earlier this morning. Every garden needs weeding, every good crop has struggles on its way to fruitfulness. If you are trusting in Jesus And you're still seeking to grow in him. And if the word is bearing fruit in your life in a changed attitude, in actions, then that is evidence that you have found salvation. Keep trusting in Christ Christ and run to him when you feel doubts and fears and shame rising in your heart. That is the parable of the sowers. Now we're going to turn our attention to Psalm 73, which is very relevant. to what we just learned about in the parable of the sower and the soils, because here's a psalm of Asaph, where Asaph looked like he was in that third category. where the thorns were choking out the word, but then he got his perspective right and got the weeds out of the garden. Let's read this and then pray. Psalm of ASAF Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped. For I was envious of the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For they have no pangs until death. Their bodies are fat and sleek, they are not in trouble as others are. They are not stricken like the rest of mankind. Therefore pride is their necklace. Violence covers them as a garment, their eyes swell out through fatness, their hearts overflow with follies, they scoff and speak with malice. Loftily they threaten oppression. They set their mouths against the heavens, and their tongues strutts through the earth. Therefore his people turn back to them, and find no fault in them. And they say, How can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the wicked, always at ease. They increase in riches. All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. for all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning. If I had said I will speak thus, I would have betrayed the generation of your children. But When I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task until I went into the sanctuary of God. There I discovered their end. Truly you set them in slippery places. You make them fall to ruin. How they are destroyed in a moment swept utterly away by terrors, like a dream when one awakens, oh Lord, when you rouse yourself, you despise them as phantoms. When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart, I was brutish and ignorant, I was like a beast toward you. Nevertheless, I am always with you, continually with you. You hold my right hand, you guide me with your counsel, and afterward you receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. My heart and my flesh may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For behold Those who are far from you shall perish. You put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you. But as for me, it is good to be near God. I have made the Lord God my refuge, that I may tell of all your works. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, it is easy for us to get distracted. By the cares of the world, by the deceitfulness of riches, we can be like Asaph here in Psalm 73, and we can covet and envy the lifestyle of the rich, the wealthy, wicked. We can say, well, they're not honoring God with their lives, but look how much money they have, look how much fun they're having, look how little trouble there is in their lives. What good is it doing for me to be following after Christ and repenting of my sin and living faithfully when these people seem to have it all and they're not doing any of that? And this is just wrong. It's a wrong way for us to think. And the only way to correct that thinking is to worship you and to realize in worshiping you what their true end is. This life holds all the joy that they will ever experience. Forever And yet it also holds all the pain that we will ever experience forever if we belong to you. Knowing the end. Helps us put the now into right perspective, Lord. Thank you for that. Help us to walk by faith and not by sight Help us to keep our focus on you and not on the world. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope you can join us again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord