Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. Together we are getting to know our Savior better. And we're so glad that you're with us for this fourth day of our tenth week as we're continuing in Matthew chapter 21. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please be our teacher and our guide through your word that you've given to us as a priceless gift. Please write this word on our hearts and draw us closer to Jesus that we might truly walk with him by faith today. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Okay, this is Matthew chapter 21 and verses 23 to 46. And when he entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came up to him as he was teaching and said, By what authority are you doing these things, and who gave you this authority? Jesus answered them, I also will ask you one question, and if you tell me the answer, then I will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John. Was it? From where did it come? From heaven or from man? And they discussed it among themselves, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say to us, Why then did you not believe him? But if we say from man, we are afraid of the crowd, for they all hold that John was a prophet. So they answered Jesus, we do not know. And he said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. What do you think? A man had two sons, and he went to the first and said, Son, go and work in the vineyard today. And he answered, I will not. But afterward he changed his mind and went. And he went to the other son and said the same, and he answered, I will, sir, but did not go. Which of the two did the will of his father? They said, the first. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, the tax collectors and the prostitutes go into the kingdom of God before you. For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him, and even when you saw it, you did not afterward change your mind and believe him Hear another parable. There was a master of a house, who planted a vineyard, and put a fence around it, and dug a wine press in it, and built a tower, and leased it to tenants, and went into another country. When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to get his fruit, and the tenants took his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another Again he sent other servants more than the first, and they did the same to them. Finally he sent his sons, saying, They will respect my son. But when the tenants saw the sun, they said to themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance. And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants? They said to him, He will put those wretches to a miserable death and let out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruit in its due season. Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the scriptures, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone? This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Therefore I tell you the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruits and the one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on any one it will crush him. When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he was speaking about them. And although they were seeking to arrest him, they feared the crowds because they held him to be a prophet. So, we're asking today, what sin is worse than the fear of man? The Bible warns us against the fear of man for good reason. The fear of man can paralyze us from doing what is right and honoring God because we're afraid of the opinions, words, or potential actions of others When we allow the opinions and even the threats of others to shape our actions, we are serving people and not God. That is definitely sin and is a serious potential snare for all of us. And yet there is even something worse than the fear of man And the chief priests and the Pharisees display this graver sin in today's passages. In fact, in this passage, the other sin is so serious and so deadly that it is the sinful fear of man that restrains the religious leaders from sinning even worse. It's the fear of man that keeps them from openly condemning John the Baptist as a false prophet. and from openly arresting Jesus. When fear of man is a protection, you know you're dealing with a serious sin. So what was their sin? Pride Spiritual pride. The chief priests and the Pharisees thought they had all the right answers, the right methods, and the right to rule God's people. They sought to use their positions within the community of God's people to serve themselves, to enrich their personal fortunes, and to advance their social standing. Two days ago We discussed what it takes to be great in God's kingdom. We saw then that worldly models of leadership and self-centered definitions of greatness are completely out of keeping. with God's kingdom. We also observed that the church has repeatedly failed to seek leaders according to God's definition. Today we see in these passages the danger of leading out of spiritual pride. The spiritual pride of the religious leaders kept them from bowing their knees to worship Jesus and receive eternal life. It condemned them As God gave them what they wanted. When we are living out of spiritual pride, the worst thing that can happen to us is for God to give us what we want. We will reject what is good for us, and we will greedily choose what ultimately destroys us. There is no deadlier sin than pride. Let's go to Psalm 50. And here the God of the universe, the Lord, is summoning his people for a trial to judge them for their pride. A Psalm of Asaph, the mighty one, God the Lord, speaks and summons the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth. Our God comes. He does not keep silence. Before him is a devouring fire. Around him is a mighty tempest. He calls to the heavens above and to the earth, that he may judge his people. Gather to me my faithful ones, who made a covenant with me by sacrifice. The heavens declare his righteousness that God himself is judge. Hear, O my people. And I will speak. O Israel, I will testify against you. I am God, your God. Not for your sacrifices do I rebuke you. Your burnt offerings are continually before me. I will not accept a bull from your house, or goats from your folds, for every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills. I know all the birds of the hills, and all that moves in the field is mine. If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and all its fullness are mine. Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and perform your vows. to the most high and call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you and you shall glorify me But to the wicked God says, What right have you to recite my statutes or take my covenant on your lips? For you hate discipline, and you cast my words behind you. If you see a thief, you are pleased with him, and you keep company with adulterers, you give your mouth free reign to evil, and your tongue frames deceit. You sit and speak against your brother. You slander your own mother's son. These things you have done and I have been silent, you thought that I was one like yourself, but now I rebuke you and I lay the charge before you. Mark this then, you who forget God, lest I tear you apart and there be none to deliver. The one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me. To one who orders his way rightly, I will show the salvation of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are my good and gracious King. You are our good and gracious King. Forgive us for times when spiritual pride sneaks in its ugly head and we begin to think that we have the right answers, that we are the righteous ones. And we think that by going through the motions and checking off the checklist, we have fulfilled what is required. Instead, Father, let us humbly give thanks because Jesus has done everything for our salvation. And let us humbly seek you. And put ourselves under your word and under your spirit and under your kingship that we might follow. And not seek to exalt ourselves, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And I do pray you have a blessed day in the Lord.