Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Five days a week we gather together to hear from the Gospels and to pray the Psalms, which is what Jesus did during his earthly life. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. Please teach us from this next section of Matthew. Please write your word on our hearts by your Holy Spirit. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we're here in Matthew twelve, verses thirty-three to fifty. Uh the last couple of days I realized I didn't ask like the key question. That's kind of framing everything. So the key question to frame everything today is what kind of heart bears good fruit? What kind of heart bears good fruit? Let's go to God's Word. Then some of the wait. Wrong place to start. The question won't make sense if we don't read the relevant part of the text, will it? Matthew 12, 33 to 50. Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad. for the tree is known by its fruit. You brood of vipers, how can you speak good when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil. I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give account for every careless word they speak For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered him, saying, Teacher, we wish to see a sign from you. But he answered them, an evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah. For just as Jonah was in was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold something greater than Jonah is here. The Queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here. When an unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places, seeking rest, but finds none. Then it says, I will return to my house from which I came, and when it comes it finds the house empty, swept, and put in order. Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that person is worse than the first. So also will it be with this evil generation. While he was still speaking to the people, behold his mother and his brothers stood outside, asking to speak to him. But he replied to the man who told him, Who is my mother? And who are my brothers? And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said, Here are my mother and my brothers. For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. So what kind of heart bears good fruit? A good, sound, healthy tree will bear good fruit for years, abundant, high-quality fruit. If you have a tree putting forth bad fruit consistently, you don't blame the fruit. You look at the condition of the tree, the roots of the tree, the quality of the soil, the nature of the plant itself. In other words, you look deeper than the superficial level. Jesus said that a good heart, a heart full of good treasure, will allow a person to bring forth good in his or her life. If we have sinful or unfruitful patterns in our lives, we need to look more deeply. So what kind of heart bears good fruit? Well, first of all, a heart with a good treasure is a heart that bears good fruit. It wasn't Sigmund Freud who invented the Freudian slip. Jesus said that we will give an account for every careless word. Why? Because our words reflect the treasure in our hearts What do we treasure deep inside? Money? Control? Praise from people? Pleasure? Or is it Jesus and the kingdom and God's attributes and his ways? It will show in our words what we treasure will come out of our mouths. Second, a believing heart And not a skeptical heart will bear good fruit. And we see this in verses 38 to 42. The scribes and the Pharisees demanded a sign. Jesus answered in two ways, pointing to them of the coming sign of the resurrection. But also condemning them for demanding a sign in the first place. He said that sign seeking represents a heart of spiritual adultery. Verse thirty-nine Why? Because skepticism is a form of faithlessness or betrayal. A skeptical heart is always demanding that God prove himself rather than trusting him in those times when we don't understand or we can't see what he's doing. And third, a heart filled with the Holy Spirit, and not just cleansed of sinful habits, will bear good fruit. This is verses 43 to 45. If we concentrate on ridding our hearts and lives of all the bad stuff, we will end up empty with nothing to live for, nothing filling the treasure chest of our hearts. As nature abhors a vacuum, so the spiritual world will not allow a human heart to stand empty. You will give yourself to something or someone in your deepest core. There will always be an answer to who is your master. Who fills your heart? Will it truly be Christ or will it be sin? Fourth, a heart that delights to do the will of God will bear good fruit. And this is our last section, verses 46 to 50. This is the kind of heart Jesus had. Not just doing right to check off a list of requirements and get something good, but pleasing his Heavenly Father in all that he did because of love. A delight to do the will of God. So now that we know what kind of heart bears good fruit, we need to ask, who can give us this kind of heart? And the answer is only God. God alone has the power to change us from the inside out. If all you have is the desire to have this kind of heart, know that that desire itself comes from God. So you can know that he who has begun a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Christ Jesus, according to Philippians 1. 6 And that's good news. Let's go to Psalm 29 now. Psalm 29, a Psalm of David. Ascribed to the Lord. O heavenly beings, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord the glory to his name. Worship the Lord in the splendor of holiness. The voice of the Lord is over the waters. The God of glory thunders. The Lord over many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful. The voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars. The Lord breaks the cedars of Lebanon. He makes Lebanon to skip like a calf, and Syrion like a young wild ox. The voice of the Lord flashes forth flames of fire. The voice of the Lord shakes the wilderness. The Lord shakes the wilderness of Kadesh. The voice of the Lord makes the deer give birth and strips the forest bare, and in his temple all cry, Glory. The Lord sits enthroned over the flood. The Lord sits enthroned as king forever. May the Lord give strength to his people. May the Lord bless his people with peace. pray. Oh Lord, you are indeed powerful and glorious. There is no one like you. You do all things well. Your power is over all of your creation, including over us, made in your image and redeemed by your Son. Would you give us hearts that bear good fruit? Change us from the inside out so that we can join with creation in praising you, ascribing glory to your name, and that we would would just Have the strength that you promised to give to your people. May the Lord give strength to his people and bless his people with peace. That strength of heart that comes from having the treasure of Christ in the core of who we are. and that brings forth good fruit. We pray this for your glory in our lives and in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks for joining me again. for walking with Jesus and the Gospels. We'll be back again tomorrow to wrap out, uh round out, wrap up. I was going to say wrap up or round out instead I said wrap out. Anyway. We're going to finish week six tomorrow. Lord willing, hopefully you can be with us and have a blessed day in the Lord.