Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. We are working our way through this question and answer series of catechism questions. Catechism just is a way of instruction. instructing us in the truth. In this case we're being instructed in the truth of the gospel. And we're working our way from guilt through grace to gratitude. We're in the grace section and we're really dealing with the faith. Like What does it mean to believe? And today, what do we need to believe in order to have we saw last time what true faith is and that it's through the gospel, but really what is the gospel? What is What's the content of our faith? What do we need to believe? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this opportunity again to be blessed by the Heidelberg Catechism and by your word. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts and that you would write Christ in our souls so deeply that Christ in us and we in Christ would be the heartbeat of our lives and our sure hope of eternity. With you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so we are today dealing with two questions actually. And so we'll first review question 20. Are all men then saved by Christ just as they perished through Adam? And the answer is no Only those are saved who by a true faith are grafted into Christ and accept all his benefits. Only those are saved, who by true faith. So what is true faith then? That was a question we dealt with last time. What is true faith? True faith is a sure knowledge. whereby I accept as true all that God has revealed to us in His Word. At the same time It is a firm confidence that not only to others, but also to me, God has granted forgiveness of sins, everlasting righteousness and salvation, out of mere grace, only for the sake of Christ's merits. This faith, the Holy Spirit, works in my heart by the gospel. So we believe what God has revealed. Faith has worked in our hearts by the gospel. But that leads to another question. What then must a Christian believe? What is the essential content of our faith? What do we have to believe that God has revealed Well, a Christian must believe all that is promised us in the gospel, which the articles of our Catholic and undoubted Christian faith teach us in summary. Now, depending on your background and your level of understanding and knowledge, you might be freaking out a little bit right now and saying, wait a minute, this is Catholic? Like Roman Catholic? Like the Pope? No. Notice it's a lowercase C, and it doesn't say Roman Catholic. It just says our Catholic and undoubted Christian faith. The word Catholic means universal. It means one, whole, worldwide, universal, faith and church. So everyone who truly believes in Jesus, everyone who truly believes in the gospel, is a real Christian. And it doesn't really matter as much which denominational church they go to. We are Presbyterian. The PCA, the Presbyterian Church in America. That's what we are for Still Presbyterian Church. We're proud of that fact. We love the PCA. With a good faithful denomination. No denomination is perfect. Yes, we have our flaws. I don't want to hear from you in an email about all the flaws of the PCA. I'm well aware of them, but we still love our church. But you might be Baptist or Lutheran or Methodist, or yes, you might be Roman Catholic. But if you have a true and saving faith in Jesus Christ and his merits and not your own. and an assurance of his promises to you in the gospel, then you are part of those who believe in the Catholic and undoubted Christian faith. And we're told that the articles of this faith teach us what is promised in the gospel in a summary. Now, what is this? What is this, the articles of our Catholic and undoubted Christian faith, which teach us, in summary, all that is promised us in the gospel Well, I'll tell you what it is. It's the Apostles' Creed. The Apostles' Creed is that statement of truth, of belief. the knowledge of the truth of the gospel, which is confessed by all Christians all over the world, and has been confessed by all Christians for century after century after century. until we don't even know how far back it goes. Because it goes into an early age of church history that much has been lost in terms of written records because of Roman persecutions and all of that. But This is what we know. It's the Apostles' Creed. So what are these articles of our faith? There's three parts. There's a first part about God the Father, there's a second part about God the Son, and there's a third part about God the Holy Spirit So the Apostles' Creed is, first, I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth, and then I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and buried, he descended into hell. On the third day, he arose from the dead. He ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. And the third part, I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting Now we are not going to go through this today, line by line and phrase by phrase, because that's the whole next section of the catechism. You notice there are 12 articles. of the Christian faith that are outlined in the Apostles' Creed and they're coming three main sections. The next section of the Heidelberg Catechism, which starts next week on Monday, will be going through the Apostles' Creed. Line by line, statement by statement, section by section. Where do we get this apostles' creed? Well, there are seed forms of it, even in the New Testament. I'm going to share one with you And that is 1 Timothy 3. 16, where the Apostle Paul says, Great indeed we confess is the mystery of godliness. Or you could say, Great indeed is the mystery of godliness we confess. And here it is. This is the confession. He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels. proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory That is an early creed of the Christian church. There's some people who say, well, why do we have creeds? We don't need creeds. Well the Bible gives us These little creeds. Another one is found in Philippians chapter 2. We're not going to look at it today, but we'll probably come back to it in future weeks Go to Philippians 2 and look at verses 5 through 11. It's sometimes called the Christ hymn or the Christ poem. We're not sure if it was an early church hymn. or if it was an early church poem, or if it was an early church creed. Maybe all three. Maybe it was a creed in poetic form that was also sung by the church. This could also be the same thing, a fragment of an early hymn, but it's also a creed. We have statements that are throughout the New Testament that are basic creeds. The simplest is Jesus is Lord, Christos Kurios. Jesus is Lord. But this is a little bit longer one, and then Philippians 2, 5 through 11 is an even longer one. And notice that it focuses on Christ, who Christ is. Jesus is Lord. What about him? Well, he was manifested in the flesh. He was vindicated by the Spirit. He was seen by angels. He was proclaimed among the nations. He was believed on in the world. He was taken up in glory. You have here the incarnation, the earthly ministry, and then the ascension into glory of Jesus. Philippians 2 expands it even more To talking about his humility and his death on the cross, and then his rising again, and then his exaltation. So what the Apostles' Creed does is expand that even further. The the central article, the second part of the Apostles' Creed is really the longest and most detailed and it's dealing with Jesus. The only begotten Son of God our Lord conceived by the Holy Spirit born of the Virgin Mary suffering under Pontius Pilate crucified died buried descended into hell the third day rising again from the dead Ascending into heaven, sitting at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, and coming from there to judge the living and the dead. So really it's about our Christian faith, which is focused on Christ. But we have to begin. With the fact that there is one God, and we have to then conclude with what believing in Christ means for us and for our identity and for our hope. And all of that, we will get into that in the coming weeks. We're not going to get into it any more than that today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, our gracious God and King, how wonderful you are to give us the truth. Of your word summarized for us, even if it's in human form. The Apostles' Creed is a human document It's a summary from the early church days of what your word teaches to us. The title verb catechism is a human document. But we're thankful for them because they help us to see what is in the Bible. They help us to summarize so that we can easily memorize what is in the Bible. Thank you for revealing yourself to us and thank you for giving us these teaching aids to help us understand your word better. May our love for Christ go deeper and deeper as we continue to grow together. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for another Heidelberg Catechism Devotional. And let's respond now to God's truth by worshiping Him together in song. The church is one foundation is Jesus Christ the Lord. She is creation by water and the word. From that he came and water to the With his name and for her life Elect her normal charge of the One more, why take my son One Holy She banned my things for all people? Soon Louis Phi P. Will entry and water wrong She waited for me To with the vision joy for me are blessed and done. Shall be that church and Yes, we want to We've got God and this game sweep. With those two. Like the I'm lying with the