Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're beginning a new gospel today, the Gospel of Mark. And with this opening of Mark's Gospel, we're asking the question, what is a gospel? Let's pray and then we'll read God's Word. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the Gospels of Mark, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John that reveal your Son to us. Help us to understand. why you gave us these books and how valuable they are that we can receive them as your word and understand them aright. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Mark 1 verses 1 to 20. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. As it is written in Isaiah the prophet, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. Now John was clothed with camel's hair, and wore a leather belt around his waist, and ate locusts and wild honey, and he preached, saying After me comes he who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit In those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens being torn open, and the spirit descending on him like a dove, and a voice came from heaven, You are my beloved Son, with you I am well pleased. The Spirit immediately drove him into the wilderness, and he was in the wilderness forty days being tempted by Satan, and he was with the wild animals, and the angels were ministering to him. Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Passing alongside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. And immediately they left their nets and followed him. And going on a little farther, he saw James, the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were in their boat mending the nets. And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and followed him. What is a gospel? Well we commonly see the word gospel being used as an adjective. We can speak of gospel music. gospel message, gospel tracts or booklets, gospel t-shirts, or simply the gospel truth, which if you're hearing it from a salesman, usually means a lie. You probably know that the word gospel means good news or good tidings. But what is a gospel, as in the Gospel of Mark or the Gospel of Matthew? Well, today's reading in Mark 1 might very well be the very first chapter of the very first gospel ever written. So what does Mark give us? It's not a biography, at least not as we understand that today. Because Mark isn't interested in telling us everything about Jesus' life. Rather, it's a book with a purpose, to show us the person and work of Jesus That's why this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. He is the Son of God in His person, and He is the Christ, the Anointed One, in His work for us and for our salvation Showing us the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, Mark is focusing on those things we need to know in order to understand and believe who Jesus really is and what he has done for us. And so Mark's gospel, unlike a biography, doesn't begin with the childhood of Jesus. It begins with the prophet Isaiah. Why? Well, let's consider why Mark would include the details that he does in today's reading. Why begin with the prophet Isaiah? Because Mark is showing us that Jesus' coming was foretold in the scriptures and that he fulfilled God's promises in his life and ministry. Why include John the Baptist? Because John the Baptist was a key witness to the person and work of Jesus. The Jewish people know that John was a true prophet of righteousness. So the fact that he recognized and testifies about Jesus helps us understand and believe who Jesus is. Why Jesus baptism? Well, it shows us the testimony of God the Father and God the Holy Spirit, helping us to understand Jesus' relationship to the Father and the Spirit. His baptism is also his anointing for ministry as our Messiah, the anointed one. When was the Messiah anointed? At his baptism. Who anointed him? The Father Himself anointed him with the Holy Spirit. Why forty days of being tested in the wilderness? This copies a regular pattern in God's dealings with his peoples. The Israelites wandered for forty years in the wilderness before they entered the promised land. Elijah spent forty days fasting in the wilderness in 1 Kings 19. In the same way Jesus was prepared to bring God's people into the promised land of the kingdom of God as the anointed prophet, priest, and king of God. by his forty day fast and trial in the wilderness. Why the arrest of John the Baptist? Well Mark is showing us the transition from the preparation ministry of John the Forerunner to the fulfillment ministry. of Jesus the Messiah. Why the calling of the disciples? Well Mark is showing us how Jesus brings his kingdom. Jesus calls disciples to follow him. He trains them, and then they go out and make more disciples and proclaim the good news of the kingdom. The calling of the disciples is the beginning of the New Testament church, the called-out people of God. What we can see clearly is that Mark is very efficient. He includes every detail for a reason and moves quickly from one detail to the next. Mark is a gospel that can be read quickly. but which should be read carefully. Whether you've been following Jesus for 60 years or you're just starting to get to know him, this gospel has so much to teach all of us. And so we're going to be spending about six weeks in the Gospel of Mark together. Let's turn now to Psalm 67. To the choirmaster with stringed instruments, a psalm, a song. May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face to shine upon us that your way may be known on earth, your saving power among all nations. Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy For you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth. Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. The earth has yielded its increase. God, our God, shall bless us. God shall bless us. Let all the ends of the earth fear him. Let's pray. Father, you have blessed us supremely by sending your Son, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Messiah, Christ Jesus Our Savior, our Redeemer. This is good news for the whole world, that the nations may be glad and may rejoice in you. that they may praise you, that all the peoples may praise you. So may we grow in our knowledge of you, our understanding of you, and our love for you, that we might have this good news to share with our neighbors and with the nation. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again as we've begun our 14th week here by walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.