Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We are we are getting to know our Savior better I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you for our third day of our 15th week as we are in the Gospel of Mark. Looking at the second half of Mark chapter 4 together, verses 21 to 41, and asking, what makes us afraid? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that you are great. You are our Father. We are your children. You love us. You've given us life in your Son. Be our teacher. Teach us by your Holy Spirit and make this word alive and powerful and write it on our hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Mark 4, 21 to 41. And he said to them, Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket, or under a bed, and not on a stand? For nothing is hidden except to be made manifest, nor is anything secret except to come to light. If any one has ears to hear, let him hear And he said to them, Pay attention to what you hear. With the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you. For to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. And he said, The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground He sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows. He knows not how. The earth produces by itself first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear, but when the grain is ripe, at once He puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come. And he said, With what can we compare the kingdom of God? Or what parable shall we use for it? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which when sown on the ground is the smallest of all seeds on earth, yet when it is sown it grows up and becomes larger than all the garden plants, and puts out large branches so that the birds of the air can make nests in its shade. With many such parables he spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. He did not speak to them without a parable, but privately to his own disciples he explained everything. On that day, when evening had come, he said to them, Let us go across to the other side. And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in the boat, just as he was. and other boats were with him, and a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was already filling, but he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion. And they woke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? And he awoke and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. He said to them, Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith? And they were filled with great fear, and said to one another, Who then is this? We all understand that certain fears are more normal and rational than others. If you decide to go bungee jumping, it's normal to be afraid right before you jump off the bridge. But if you walk around in your daily life terrified of the prospect of a Sharknado, that's a little bizarre. Jesus challenges our accepted categories. He shows us in today's passage that even our normal and rational fears have no place in our hearts if we have real faith in Him. Experienced sailors and fishermen, the disciples, would not be terrified on the Sea of Galilee without real cause. They knew their lives were in imminent danger. But they were wrong. Now, God does not encourage us to be foolishly unwise in our decision-making. We shouldn't be recklessly disobedient to the wisdom of Proverbs and assume that nothing bad will ever happen to us But if we are following the Lord and trusting in Him as our Lord, we don't need to be paralyzed by fear. In fact, we must not be paralyzed by fear. But how can we escape the grip of fear on our hearts? The disciples' experience in the storm shows us the key. We are delivered from paralyzing earthly fears. by a genuine fear of the Lord. We don't take the fear of the Lord very seriously anymore in our culture, which is a shame because it is centrally important in the Bible's teaching on faith. We are accustomed to a tamed version of the fear of the Lord that means just a holy reverence or a solemn respect, but that's not the picture of the disciples who were filled with a great fear. Nor does it fit with what Jesus said when he taught us, do not fear those who can kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Sometimes fear actually means fear. Why fear the Lord? Because He is terrifyingly holy. He is intensely, perfectly, unapproachably holy, holy, holy. He destroys sin and sinners by his intensely holy presence. Isaiah was terrified in his presence, as was Peter in the presence of Christ. He is also absolutely sovereign, having full rights as our Creator and King to do with us whatever He pleases. He is also the light that penetrates everything and sees all In today's passage, Jesus tells us in verse 22, nothing is hidden except to be made manifest, nor is anything secret except to come to light. But because of the great love of the Lord The fear of the Lord is liberating and not enslaving. Remember Lamentations 3, verses 22 and 23. Through the Lord's mercies we are not consumed. Because his compassions fail not, they are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness It is dangerous to fear anything other than the Lord, because only the Lord is as absolutely wise, compassionate and merciful toward us in Christ, as He is absolutely powerful, holy, sovereign, and all-knowing. The greatness of God means that we must fear him and no one else, but the goodness of God. The loving kindness of God means that we may fear Him with confidence and even with joy In fact, we never find true freedom, confidence, and joy anywhere else but in the soul-gripping fear of the Lord. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 74. Here is Asaph pleading with the Lord. O God, why do you cast us off forever? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture? Remember your congregation which you have purchased of old. which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your heritage. Remember Mount Zion where you have dwelt. Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins. The enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary. Your foes have roared in the midst of your meeting place. They set up their own signs for signs. They they were like those who swing axes in a forest of trees, and all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers. They set your sanctuary on fire. They profaned the dwelling place of your name, bringing it down to the ground. They said to themselves, We will utterly subdue them. They burned all the meeting places of God in the land. We do not see our signs. There is no longer any prophet, and there is none among us who knows how long, how long, O Lord, is the foe to scoff Is the enemy to revile your name forever? Why do you hold back your right hand, take it from the fold of your garment, and destroy them? Yet, God my King is from of old. Working salvation in the midst of the earth. You divided the sea by your might. You broke the heads of the sea monsters on the waters. You crushed the heads of Leviathan. You gave him as food. For the creatures of the wilderness, you split open springs and brooks, you dried up ever-flowing streams. Yours is the day, yours also is the night. You have established the heavenly lights and the sun You have fixed all the boundaries of the earth. You have made summer and winter. Remember this, O Lord, how the enemy scoffs, and a foolish people reviles your name Do not deliver the soul of your dove to the wild beasts. Do not forget the life of your poor forever. Have regard for the covenant. For the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence. Let not the downtrodden turn back in shame. Let the poor and needy praise your name. Arise, O God, defend your cause. Remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day. Do not forget the clamor of your foes. the uproar of those who rise against you, which goes up continually Asaph here is pleading with the Lord to do something because he fears the Lord and he knows that the Lord, if he would just take his hand out and stretch out, could destroy all the enemies of God's people. That's a God who's powerful. He's also pleading on him for him because he knows that we're his people. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, you are holy, holy, holy, and you are our God and our Father. We must fear you, for you alone are worthy of our fear. And we must love you, and be set free by you from all other fears. Save us. Deliver us from the attacks of our enemy, our flesh, the world, the devil, the mockery of you, the doubts of you. The enticing desires that run contrary to your will, deliver us from these things, and bring us all the way home by your grace and for your glory. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Thanks so much for joining me again, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional time was a blessing to you, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.