Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church We're on our fifth day of week two, and that brings us to Matthew chapter five, the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount with the Beatitudes. And the proclamation that you are the salt of the earth and you are the light of the world. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into his word together today. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. Thank you for the truth of your word. Thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Let us hear Him speak to us today, convicting us, comforting us, changing us. By the power of your Holy Spirit to the glory of your name, we pray. Amen. Matthew chapter 5. Seeing the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and when he sat down, his disciples came to him, and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It's no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others So that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. What kind of people does the King of Kings Promise that theirs is the kingdom of heaven. The rich and powerful? The talented and impressive, the beautiful and enviable? No, of course not. But how about the super-religious? The holier than thou, the spotless perfectionists. No, not them either. How about the poor in spirit, those who realize their spiritual bankruptcy before a holy God? Yes. How about those who mourn over their sin and don't think very highly of themselves? Those who are starving for righteousness because they know they don't have any of their own. Yes. These are the people Jesus says belong to his kingdom. Jesus says that those who are exiled Persecuted, reviled, should rejoice, for their reward is great in heaven. The world may hate and trample on the meek and mock the merciful, but Jesus saves them a place in his palace. In fact, Jesus says it is these kinds of people Those who don't trust in their own righteousness, but look to God for it, who are the salt of the earth. Those who know their own poverty and who treat others with gentleness are those who make a real difference, who bring flavor and preservation and cause others to thirst for God too. They are the light of the world, the ones who shine with a light that only God can give So if you think you have something to offer God, put it down. Walk away from it. God doesn't need it, and it will only keep you from what he has for you. Empty hands, bowed hearts. Humble hearts, thirsty souls. That's what God's looking for. Those are the things we bring to God Our sin, our need, our poverty, our hunger. He welcomes us into his kingdom. to receive the fullness of righteousness, joy, peace, and love that overflow from who He is Amen. Well, let's go to Psalm 10 now, and we're going to read and pray this Psalm together. Psalm 10. Why, O Lord, do you stand far away? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? In arrogance, the wicky wicked hotly pursues the poor. Let them be caught in the schemes that they have devised For the wicked boasts of the desires of his soul, and the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the Lord. In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him. All his thoughts are There is no God. His ways prosper at all times. Your judgments are on high, out of his sight. As for all his foes, he puffs at them. He says in his heart, I shall not be moved. Throughout all generations I shall not meet adversity. His mouth is filled with cursing. and deceit and oppression under his tongue are mischief and iniquity. He sits in ambush in the villages, in hiding places. He murders the innocent. He's his eyes stealthily watch for the helpless. He lurks in ambush like a lion in his thicket. He lurks that he may seize the poor. He seizes the poor when he draws them into his net. The helpless are crushed. Sink down and fall by his might. He says in his heart, God has forgotten, he has hidden his face, he will never see it. Arise, O Lord, lift up your hand, forget not the afflicted. Why does the wicked renounce God and say in his heart, You will not call to account, but you do see, for you note mischief and vexation. that you may take it into your hands. To you the helpless commits himself. You have been the helper of the fatherless. Break the arm of the wicked and evildoer. Call his wickedness to account Till you find none. The Lord is king for ever and ever. The nations perish from his land O Lord, you hear the desires of the afflicted. You will strengthen their heart. You will incline your ear to give justice to the fatherless and the oppressed so that man who is of the earth may strike terror no more. Here we see such great harmony between the prayer of Psalm 10 and the Beatitudes, because Here we have a prayer against those who oppress the poor and in favor of those who are the poor and the powerless. And that's exactly what Jesus tells us. The kingdom of God is all about. The one who's king forever and ever hears the desire of the afflicted. Let's pray to him now. Heavenly Father, you are the King forever. Jesus, you are King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and you reign forever over all of the nations. The nations may try to come against your people, but your purposes will stand. You will come to the rescue of the afflicted, the poor in spirit, the meek. The merciful. You come to us. You give us your righteousness. You make us salt and light. You vindicate us against the world's slanders and attacks because you are good You are our refuge. Let us hide ourselves in you today and always that we might be blessed forever in you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, that's week two of our month-long journey through the Gospels. I hope you're enjoying them. I hope they're benefiting you. If you have any questions or feedback, feel free to drop me an email. My email is pastor at foresthillpca. org. That's pastor at foresthillpca. org. Love to hear from you. And uh Lord willing, I hope to see you next week. Have a blessed day in the Lord.