Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our second day of our tenth week, and we come to Matthew 20, verses 20 to 34. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. Thank you for your word. It is true. These are the words of eternal life. They show us your Son, our Savior, that we might believe in Him. Strengthen our faith in Christ, and grow us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew twenty twenty to thirty-four. Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came up to him with her sons, and kneeling before him she asked him for something. And he said to her. What do you want? She said to him, Say that these two sons of mine are to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left in your kingdom. Jesus answered, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink? They said to him, We are able. He said to them, You will drink my cup. But to sit at my right hand and at my left is not mine to grant. It is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father. And when the ten heard it, they were indignant at the two brothers. But Jesus called them to him and said You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. It shall not be so among you But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be your slave. even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. And as they went out of Jericho, a great crowd followed him. And behold, there were two blind men sitting by the roadside. And when they heard that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, Lord, have mercy on us, son of David! The crowd rebuked them, telling them to be silent. But they cried out all the more, Lord, have mercy on us, son of David. And stopping, Jesus called them and said, What do you want me to do for you? And they said to him, Lord, let our eyes be opened. And Jesus, in pity, touched their eyes, and immediately they recovered their sight and followed him. Well, mothers have always had high hopes for their children. They generally tend to have a high view of their children's gifts and abilities, and they also often think that the world should see how wonderful they already know their children to be. James and John had such a mom, a mom who thought that her two boys should be at the right hand and the left hand of Jesus in his kingdom. Jesus did not rebuke this mom, but instead turned his attention to the boys themselves. He asked them a single job interview question. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink? James and John had no idea what Jesus was saying. They had no clue what the cup of suffering was that Jesus had to drink, but they answered confidently anyway, we are able. Greatness and ambition are celebrated in our culture. And those who push themselves ahead and rise to the top are praised and rewarded. But Jesus' kingdom is not like our modern American culture. He doesn't value ambitious, pushy, proud self-promoters. Now here's the sad and sobering reality. The church. The church has known Jesus' perspective for two thousand years, but we are still so prone to doing church according to the world's standards and not according to Jesus' own definition of greatness. Jesus could not have been more clear. It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant. And whoever would be first among you must be your slave, even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many Yet our culture of celebrity pastors and megachurch superstardom and highly paid conference speakers and theologically hollow self-promoting best-selling books All shout of a church culture shaped more by the world than by the teachings of Jesus. Jesus didn't tell his disciples what greatness looked like. He didn't just tell his disciples what greatness looked like. He also showed them. Right after teaching them the definition of greatness in his kingdom, he stopped. He took pity on two blind men. He touched them and he healed them. This was the pattern for so much of Jesus' life. He was willing to stop what he was doing, to have compassion on others, to reach out and touch them and heal them. This is not the pattern of an ambitious self-promoter, but it is the pattern of one who came to give his life as a ransom for many. So the question for us is really quite simple. Whose pattern will we follow? Psalm 48 is a song, a psalm of the sons of Korah. It's a great praise psalm. About the kings and those in power. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God. His holy mountain, beautiful in elevation, is the joy of all the earth Mount Zion in the far north, the city of the great king. Within her citadels God has made himself known as a fortress. For behold, the kings assembled. They came on together. As soon as they saw it, they were astounded. They were in panic, they took to flight. Trembling took hold of them there, anguish as of a woman in labor By the east wind you shattered the ships of Tarshish, as we have heard, so we have seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God, which God will establish forever. Selah. We have thought on your steadfast love, O God, in the midst of your temple. As your name, O God, so your praise reaches to the ends of the earth Your right hand is filled with righteousness. Let Mount Zion be glad. Let the daughters of Judah rejoice because of your judgments. Walk about Zion, go around her, number her towers, consider well her ramparts, go through her citadels, that you may tell the next generation that this is our God Our God forever and ever. He will guide us forever. Mount Zion, the city of our God, is the church. And there's one king who reigns in Mount Zion, and that is God Almighty. And everyone else is a servant. And the king who reigns, God Almighty, the Lord Jesus Christ, in steadfast love laid down his life for us. He came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. And so greatness in the city of God is the greatness of a servant king. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for our King, the Lord Jesus Christ, the great one, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He is the one who reigns supreme. He is the one who laid down his life to save us. We pray that you would make us more like Jesus in our heart and in our behavior. In his name we pray, and for his glory we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.