Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church Our third day of our 14th week brings us to the second chapter of Mark's Gospel, and we're asking the question, what is our greatest need? Yesterday we saw the great authority that Jesus has. What is our greatest need for him to exercise that authority on our behalf? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for sending your Son Jesus to be our Savior and our Lord. Teach us from your word what we need most from Jesus, that we might rejoice in what He gives us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Mark chapter 2 And when he returned to Capernaum after some days it was reported that he was at home And many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door, and he was preaching the word to them. And they came, bringing to him a paralytic, carried by four men. And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him, and when they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven. Now some of their scribes were sitting there, questioning in their heart. Why does this man speak like that? He is blaspheming. Who can forgive sins but God alone? And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them, Why do you question these things in your hearts? Which is easier to say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise, take up your bed and walk. But, that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, rise. Pick up your bed and go home. And he rose and immediately picked up his bed, and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, We have never seen anything like this. He went out again beside the sea, and all the crowd was coming to him, and he was teaching them. And as he passed by he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus, sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, Follow me And he rose and followed him. And as he reclined at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many who followed him. And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with sinners and tax collectors, said to his disciples, Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners? And when Jesus heard it, he said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. What is our greatest need? Well, today's reading has one of the most dramatic and famous stories in the Gospels, four men. carry their paralyzed friend to see Jesus. When they can't get into the house where Jesus is, they go up on the roof and literally tear the roof off the house in order to get to Jesus. They then lower their friend carefully down in front of Jesus. What happens next probably surprises the man and his four friends as much as it shocks and offends The scribes sitting around Jesus. Jesus says to the man, Son, your sins are forgiven. He doesn't say rise and walk, as we would have expected. Why not? Well, as we read on, we see that Jesus does end up healing the man of his physical paralysis, but he does so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. Verse 10. It seems clear that Jesus dealt with the man's greatest need first in extending forgiveness to him. He was then more concerned that we know that he has authority to forgive sins than that he has authority to heal. The healing is the greater visible sign, but it points to a greater hidden power, the power to forgive. We miss out on the wonder of the gospel when we fail to remember that our greatest need is not financial or medical, not relational or psychological. Our greatest need is forgiveness. for our sin is what keeps us from God and what condemns us forever. All other problems we face are temporary. But our sin is an eternal problem. It brings eternal consequences. The greatest need is why Jesus would go to Matthew the tax collector's house And why he would say, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick, I came not to call the righteous but sinners, verse 17. For us to benefit at all from the coming of Jesus, we must first understand the nature of our sickness. We are sinners. We are condemned before a holy God, thankfully. The great physician has come to heal our deepest sickness and to make us whole forever. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 16. To the choir master, according to the lilies of David. Save me, O God. For the waters have come up to my neck. I sank in deep mire where there is no foothold. I have come into deep waters. And the flood sweeps over me, I am weary with my crying out, my throat is parched, my eyes grow dim with waiting for my God. More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause. Mighty are those who would destroy me, those who attack me with lies. What did I not steal? What I did not steal must I now restore? O God, you know my folly. The wrongs that I have done are not hidden from you Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me, O Lord God of hosts. Let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, O God of Israel For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach, that dishonor has covered my face. I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's sons. For zeal for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting, it became my reproach. When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them. I am the talk of those who sit in the gate, and the drunkards make songs about me But as for me, my prayer is to you, O Lord. At an acceptable time, O God, in the abundance of your steadfast love, answer me in your saving faithfulness. I love that line. What a great prayer. At an acceptable time, O God, in the abundance of your steadfast love, answer me in your saving faithfulness. Deliver me from sinking in the mire. Let me be delivered from my enemies and from the deep waters. Let not the flood sweep over me or the deep swallow me up. or the pit close its mouth over me. Answer me, O Lord, for your steadfast love is good. According to your abundant mercy, turn to me. Hide not your face from your servant, for I am in distress. Make haste to answer me. Draw near to my soul, redeem me, ransom me because of my enemies. You know my reproach. And my shame and my dishonor, my fear, my foes are all known to you. Reproaches have broken my heart, so that I am in despair. I looked for pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none. They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink. Let their own table before them become a snare, and when they are at peace let it become a trap Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see, and make their loins tremble continually. Pour out your indignation upon them, and let your burning anger overtake them. May their camp be a desolation. Let no one dwell in their tents. For they persecute him whom you have struck down, and they recount the pain of those you have wounded Add to them punishment upon punishment. May they have no acquittal from you. Let them be blotted out of the book of the living. Let them not be enrolled among the righteous. But I am afflicted and in pain Let your salvation, O Lord, set me on high. I will praise the name of God with a song. I will magnify him with thanksgiving. This will please the Lord more than an ox or a bull with horns and hooves. When the humble see it, they will be glad. You who seek God, let your hearts revive For the Lord hears the needy, and does not despise his own people who are prisoners. Let heaven and earth praise him the seas and everything that moves in them. For God will save Zion and build up the cities of Judah, and people shall dwell there and possess it, the offspring of his servants shall inherit it. And those who love his name shall dwell in it. Let's pray. Oh Father, our sins And the accusations of our enemy because of our sin, heaping shame upon our heads. These are the deep waters That threaten to overwhelm us. And this is what we most need to be saved from, from sin and shame and condemnation and death and hell forever. Our enemy taunts us and accuses us and attacks us and plants seeds of doubt in our hearts. Come and answer us according to your steadfast love. Deliver us. Raise us up. Through the blood of Jesus, through the resurrection of Jesus, through our Savior who has conquered sin and death and hell forever, raise us up and deliver us. From our sin, from our shame, from our condemnation, from the weight that we should not be carrying because Jesus already bore it for us. So come to our rescue and help us to live in the joy that Jesus died and rose again to give us. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much for joining me again, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Again, I hope you can join me tomorrow, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord, remembering That the authority of Jesus has been fully exercised for your free and full forgiveness of all of your sins in His name.