Good morning. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're taking a journey five days a week through the Gospels as we're getting to know our Savior better, and we're also praying through Psalms as we're learning how to pray following the pattern God gives us in the Psalms. Today we come to the last part of Matthew chapter 6, verses 25 to 34, and we're asking ourselves about anxiety. What does our anxiety really say? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word and the way it speaks to us, the way it challenges us, the way it deals with the realities of life in such a direct and helpful and redeeming way. Would you write your word in our hearts today that we might be free from anxiety and free to live by faith? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew chapter 6, 15 to 30, or 25 to 34. Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink. Nor about your body what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air. They neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns And yet your heavenly Father feeds them, are you not of more value than they? And which of you, by being anxious, can add a single hour to his fan of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. Yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven Will he not much more clothe you? O you of little faith. Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after all these things And your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Therefore Do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. Hmm. Well, God is calling us to not be anxious. If you're like me You may be feeling anxious, upset, worried, fearful, even hopeless about the state of our world, the state of our country, the state of our economy. the unrest in Israel and Gaza and that hostage situation, the ongoing war in Ukraine, inflation. Anybody seen the prices of eggs lately? Ugh or what the future might hold with some of the massive changes that are going on right now. But we have no reason. We have no reason to be anxious because God is on his throne and he reigns over the nations. But today. I want us to consider this question. What does our anxiety really say about us? And what is the solution to it? The first thing our anxiety shows us is that we value worldly things more than heavenly things. Nothing which happens in this life, financial hardship. Loss of a job, political turmoil, cultural decline and corruption, personal losses can change the eternal realities of God's kingdom and our salvation. So when we're anxious, it's often because we've lost sight of what really matters, and we've given in to the lies that the things of the world are more real than the things of eternity So what's our solution? Well, 2 Corinthians 4, 16 to 18. So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day for this light, momentary affliction. Is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, as we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen, for the things that are seen are transient. But the things that are unseen are eternal. The second thing our anxiety shows us is our desire to be in control of our lives We all know and readily confess that God is in control, yet we struggle at some level with the inward pull to want to be in control ourselves. We're not content. to do our part and trust and obey God to do his part in order to provide for us and to order our lives by his will. We want to be in control of ordering and providing And we want to expect God to take the role of obeying our desires and trusting or blessing our plans. So what's our solution? Proverbs 3, verses 5 to 7. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding, and all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make straight your paths. Be not wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. And third, our anxiety shows our lack of faith in God It's the flip side of number two, where we want to be in control, but it's important to see it more distinctly. We do not trust God as much as we say we do, or as much as we know we should. We've seen his hand of provision and protection in our lives so many times, and every time we've seen it, his hand has gone unseen by us hundreds of times. We see it, and yet it's constantly unseen as well. God is far more powerful, far more wise, far more loving than we could ever imagine. And Scripture testifies to this truth again and again. So what's our solution? 2 Corinthians 5, 6 and 7. So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body, we are away from the Lord, for we walk by faith, not by sight. So that's what our anxiety shows us. It shows us that we value worldly things more than heavenly things. We desire to be in control, and we lack faith in God. But Scripture calls us. Scripture calls us to value the things of heaven, to not seek control, and to walk by faith. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 15. Psalm of David, O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart, who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend. in whose eyes a vile person is despised, but who honors those who fear the Lord, who swears to his own hurt and does not change, who does not put out his money at interest, who does not take a bribe against the innocent, he who does these things shall never be moved. That's a powerful picture. It should be convicting to us that we don't measure up to this. This is the standard for who's qualified to be in God's presence. We don't measure up. Thankfully, it's also a picture of Jesus, the righteous one, who does measure up, and it's a picture of what the Holy Spirit is doing in us to make us more like Christ. It's a great companion psalm for the Sermon on the Mount. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for King Jesus, our Savior, who is the righteous one. He is at your right hand. in your presence, interceding for us continually as the righteous one, as our righteousness and our faithful, sympathetic, merciful high priest. We thank you for Jesus' perfect righteousness, and we pray that your Holy Spirit would work it in our hearts. Help us to walk blamelessly, to do what is right, to speak truth in our hearts. Keep us from slandering others. Keep us from evil. Keep us from from envying the things of the world, coveting the things of the world. world. Help us to be people who keep our word even to our own hurt. Not because we're trying to earn your favor, but because you've given us your favor in Christ and your Holy Spirit is making us more like Christ. So finish the work you've begun in us. We We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that's our third week in the books. Hope it's been a blessing to you. If you want to give me any feedback on these devotionals, it's a different format from what we were doing before. I'd love to hear from you what your thoughts are. If you have any questions about anything I've said, my email address is pastor at foresthillpaca. org. That's pastor at Forest Hill PCA dot org. Love to hear from you. Have a blessed day in the Lord