Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, our second day. of our twelfth week brings us to the second half of Matthew 25. We're going to be looking at the judgment day. And so the question we're asking is what will Jesus say to you on Judgment Day? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to a serious and sobering passage today. We pray that you would speak to us by your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 25, verse 31. When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats and he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on his left, then the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you welcomed me. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came near to me. Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you, and when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you? And the king will answer them, truly I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me no food. I was thirsty and you gave me no drink. I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me Then they also will answer, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to you? Then he will answer them, saying, Truly I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal judgment, but the righteous into eternal life. Have you thought much about what Jesus will actually say to you on Judgment Day and why? Everyone will hear Jesus say, either come, inherit the kingdom, or depart from me into the eternal fire. Earlier in Matthew's Gospel, Jesus taught that many who call him Lord, Lord, and who do many things in his name will nevertheless be told to depart from him forever. That's in Matthew 7, 21-23. And so in today's passage, Jesus makes it clear that the way we treat others will be a key factor in what he says to us. This is not because we earn salvation by being generous to the poor. In fact, many people have used this passage to teach a version of salvation by good works to the poor, an idea common in the social gospel and in liberation theology movements. These movements both teach a kind of Christian socialism But these teachings miss the point of the gospel itself and of what Jesus is teaching here. It is vital that we not miss the words, my brothers here in verse forty. These words make it clear that Jesus is teaching about the love we show to one another within the body of Christ. Jesus said the world would know that we are his disciples by the love we have for one another. And John adds in 1 John 3. 17, if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? So in the context of the teaching of the rest of Scripture, today's passage is teaching us that the reality of our salvation is to be judged by the compassion we have for our brothers and sisters in Christ who are suffering. If we can close our hearts to fellow Christians in need, refusing to feed them, clothe them, visit them, or encourage them, then we have cause to question the reality of our salvation. Those whose lives have been transformed by the grace of God and who have the love of God dwelling in their hearts will have compassion on those in need, especially those who are our brothers and sisters in Christ. So if you claim the name of Christ and you hope to hear him say, come, and not depart on that day, then as we have opportunity, Galatians 6. 10 tells us, let us do good to everyone, especially to those who are of the household of faith. Let's pray. Father, make us as generous in giving as you have generously given to us. Make us as ready to be compassionate toward our brothers and sisters in Christ as you have been compassionate toward us. and so demonstrate that we are your children indeed. In Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to jump now to Psalm 58 for the second part of our devotional. Psalm 58 is an impregatory psalm. It's a psalm against the wicked and against the evil of this age. It's written to the choirmaster, according to do not destroy. It is a mikdom of David Do you indeed decree what is right, you gods? Do you judge the children of man uprightly? No. In your hearts you devise wrongs. Your hands deal out violence on earth. The wicked are estranged from the womb. They go astray from birth, speaking lies. They have venom like the venom of a serpent, like the deaf adder that stops its ear so that it does not hear the voice of charmers or the cunning enchanter. Oh God, break the teeth In their mouths, tear out the fangs of the young lions, O Lord. Let them vanish like water that runs away. When he aims his arrows, let them be blunted. Let them be like the snail that dissolves into slime, like the stillborn child who never sees the sun. Sooner than your pots can feel the heat of thorns, whether green or ablaze, may he sweep them away. The righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance. He will bathe his feet in the blood of the wicked. Mankind will say, Surely there is a reward. for the righteous. Surely there is a God who judges on earth. Now this psalm is directly connected to our gospel passage because When will these things happen? When will mankind say, surely there's a reward for the righteous? Surely there's a God who judges on earth? When Jesus comes again and he hands out judgment. And in that day, religious hypocrites, those who've named the name of Christ, but who have actually been hypocritical and had not Christ in their hearts, they'll be exposed for what they are, and as well as the wicked in the world. So this isn't a precatory psalm, and a precatory psalm can be challenging to know how to pray, but when the Lord teaches us in the Lord's Prayer to pray, deliver us from evil. Or probably a better translation is actually deliver us from the evil one. Lead us not to temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. That is a way of praying in the context of God's kingdom coming and his will being done, that we would be delivered from the works of Satan which he works out in the world through people. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, we still live in a world where Satan actively blinds the minds of unbelievers, fills the hearts of unbelievers with hatred for you and your people. There's active persecution of your people going on all around this world in many different forms. We pray that you would remove those evil persecutors of your people from their positions of power, that you would cast them down. That you would either change their hearts so that they would be your children and they would seek to bless and protect your people, or you would remove them from power. so that your people may may flourish under your gracious hand. We pray that evil and its influence and spread in this world would be restrained. We pray that the plans of Satan to frustrate and hinder the gospel would themselves be thwarted and frustrated and hindered We pray that your Holy Spirit would loose your people to proclaim the gospel in word and demonstrate the gospel in deed throughout this world. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels and also praying the Psalms. I hope it's a blessing to you always, and I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.