Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus and the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Day by day, five days a week, we are getting to know our Savior better, and we are in Mark chapter 6 as we begin week 16. Looking at verses 1 to 29 and asking, what kind of king is Jesus? Let's pray. Father, thank you for sending your son Jesus to be our King. Help us to understand him better and love him deeper and follow him more faithfully, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Mark 16, 1 to 29. He went away from there and came to his hometown, and his disciples followed him, and on the Sabbath he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were astounded. Ask, saying, where did this man get these things? What is the wisdom given to him? How are such mighty works done by his hands? Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James and Joseph and Judas and Simon? Are not his sisters here with us? And they took offense at him. And Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his hometown, and among his relatives, and in his own household And he could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them, and he marveled because of their unbelief, and he went about among the villages teaching. And he called the twelve, and began to send them out two by two, and gave them authority over the unclean spirits. He charged them to take nothing for their journey except a staff, no bread, no bag, no money in their belts, but to wear sandals and not to put on two tunics. And he said to them, Whenever you enter a house, stay there until you depart from there, and if any place will not receive you And they will not listen to you. When you leave, shake off the dust which is on your feet as a testimony against them. So they went out and proclaimed that people should repent. And they cast out many demons, and anointed with oil many who were sick, and healed them. King Herod heard of it For Jesus' name had become known. Some said John the Baptist has been raised from the dead. That is why these miraculous powers are at work in him. But others said, he is Elijah. And others said, He is a prophet like one of the prophets of old. But when Herod heard of it, he said, John, whom I beheaded, has been raised, for it was Herod. who had sent and seized John and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because he had married her. For John had been saying to Herod, It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife. And Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to put him to death, but she could not. For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he kept him safe. When he heard him, he was greatly perplexed, and yet he heard him gladly But an opportunity came, when Herod, on his birthday, gave a banquet for his nobles and military commanders and the leading men of Galilee, for when Herodias's daughter came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his guests And the king said to the girl, Ask me for whatever you wish, and I will give it to you. And he vowed to her, Whatever you ask, I will give to you, up to half my kingdom. And she went and asked her mother, For what should I ask? And she said, the head of John the Baptist. And she came in immediately, with haste, to the king, saying, I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter. And the king was exceedingly sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests, he did not want to break his word to her And immediately the king sent an executioner with orders to bring John's head. He went and beheaded him in the prison, and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother When the disciples heard of it, they came and took his body and laid it in a tomb. Today's gospel reading could be called the Tale of Two Kings. We see both King Jesus and King Herod exercising their royal authority among their closest followers. The contrast could not be clearer. King Jesus speaks the truth. He demonstrates his power as King so clearly that people are left stunned and puzzled. They ask, Where does this man get these things? What is the wisdom given to him? How are such mighty works done by his hands? He then gives authority to his twelve closest followers, whom he sends out to preach the gospel and cast out demons His reign thus brings wisdom, power, deliverance from oppression, and salvation from sin. King Herod is precisely the opposite kind of king. He throws a big birthday party for himself on his birthday full of self-indulgence. He also gives authority to one of his subjects, his stepdaughter, only instead of giving her authority to proclaim forgiveness and deliver people from demons. Herod gives her authority to kill an innocent man and have his head presented on a platter. We can judge rulers by what they do. and by what they empower their followers to do. President Ulysses S. Grant was generally considered an honorable man himself, but he allowed many in his administration to abuse their authority, and so he is remembered as an effective general, but a poor president. Sadly we have to acknowledge that much evil has been committed in the name of Jesus by those who claim to be his followers But the true followers of Jesus have been the greatest force for good the world has ever seen. The followers of Jesus have created the world's first hospitals, universities, public schools, and orphanages. They created just war theory to limit when nations could go to war and how And they created the concept of universal human rights because we believe that everyone is made in the image of God. They also led the way for the elimination of footbinding in China. widow burning in India, slavery in the UK and the US, and a whole host of other evils around the world. In all, the kingdom of Jesus has been the source of more good in this world than anything else in the history of the world by far. That's what kind of king Jesus is. Psalm 77 is our psalm for today. It is written to the choirmaster. It is according to Judithan, and it is a psalm of Asaph. I cry aloud to God, aloud to God, and he will hear me. In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord. In the night my hand is stretched out without wearying. My soul refuses to be comforted. When I remember God, I moan. When I meditate, my spirit faints. You hold my eyelids open. I was so troubled, I am so troubled that I cannot speak. I consider the days of old, the years long ago. I said, let me remember my song in the night, let me meditate in my heart. Then my spirit made a diligent search. Will the Lord spurn forever and never again be favorable? Has his steadfast love forever ceased? Are his promises at an end for all time? Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion? Then I said, I will appeal to this. To the years of the right hand of the Most High, I will remember the deeds of the Lord. And I will remember your wonders of old. Your way, O God, is holy. What God is great like our God? You are the God who works wonders. You have made known your might among the peoples. You, with your arm, redeemed your people, the children of Jacob and Joseph. When the waters saw you, O God, when the waters saw you, they were afraid. Indeed, the deep trembled. The clouds poured out water The skies gave forth thunder. Your arrows flashed on every side. The crash of your thunder was in the whirlwind. Your lightnings lighted up the world. The earth trembled and shook. Your way was through the sea, your path through the great waters, yet your footprints were unseen. You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, you are our great shepherd. That's what kind of king you are. You shepherd your people to deliver us from the evils of this world. Your people were held in oppression and bondage in Egypt. They were put to work as slaves. And you delivered them by your mighty power. We, all of us, were under slavery to sin and bondage to the fear of death, and you delivered us all by sending your son. Thank you that our King is the shepherd, the good shepherd, who lays down his life for the sheep. Thank you that he leads us through the waters of death into the promised land of eternal life with you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks once again for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope that these devotional times are a blessing to you. If you ever have any questions about anything, you can always email me. My email address is pastor at ForestHillPCA. org. I'd love to hear from you. Be happy to answer any questions you have. And hopefully you can join us again tomorrow. Until then, have a blessed day in the Lord.