Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are here on our second day of our 11th week, and we're in Matthew 23. It's a great section of Matthew to be in during Holy Week and particularly this year. At Forest Hill Church, we are in the Gospel of Matthew for Holy Week. On Sunday, Palm Sunday, we were in Matthew 21 for the triumphal entry. Yesterday in our devotional, we were in Matthew 22 and 23. We're going to be going through Maundy Thursday. We're going to be in Matthew 26. And then our resurrection day will be in Matthew 28. So let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we dig into this passage together today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for your truth, your word. It's living and active and powerful, and we need it. We need your Holy Spirit to make your word clear to us, to penetrate our hearts and transform us. We pray that it would do so, Father, by your grace and for your glory in Jesus' name Amen. Matthew 23, verses 1 to 26. What makes a hypocrite? Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples, The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat, so do and observe whatever they tell you, but not the works they do. For they preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be seen by others, for they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long, and they love the place of honor at feasts. and the best seats in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others, but you are not to be called rabbi. For you have one teacher and you are all brothers, and call no man your father on earth, for you have one father who is in heaven Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor, the Christ. The greatest among you shall be your servant. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces, for you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves Woe to you, blind guides, who say, if anyone swears by the temple it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by his oath, you blind fools For which is greater the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred? And you say, if anyone swears by the altar it is nothing, but if he swears by the gift that is on the altar he is bound by his oath You blind men! For which is greater the gift or the altar that makes the grit the gift sacred? So whoever swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it, and whoever swears by the temple swears by it, and by him who dwells in it. And whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of God, and by him who sits on it. Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness These you ought to have done without neglecting the others. You blind guides, straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence. You blind Pharisee first Clean the inside of the cup and the plate, then the outside may be clean. Convicting words from Jesus How many times have you heard people say that the church is full of hypocrites? How many times have you heard people say that they don't like being around Christians because Christians are such hypocrites? What do they mean by that? What is hypocrisy? I'm afraid that in our culture too often hypocrite can be used sort of like the word legalistic uh as a weapon to silence those we disagree with, those we we feel judged by, whether they're truly being hypocritical, legalistic, or judgmental, these are just sort of the words we throw around when we don't like what we're hearing. But today's passage in Matthew is Jesus' longest rebuke of the scribes and the Pharisees, and it's also the best teaching in the Bible to help us understand what hypocrisy really is. The word hypocrite comes from the Greek theater and refers to those who wear the mask and play a part on the stage. It essentially means someone who pretends to be something they are not. usually to gain power or favor or social status. From Jesus' condemnation of the scribes and Pharisees, we can actually compile a list of character qualities of a true hypocrite. First of all, hypocrites proclaim things that they have no intention of doing themselves. Jesus says, for they preach, but do not practice in verse 3. Secondly, hypocrites only do religious things for a show to impress others. Verse 5, Jesus says, they do all their deeds to be seen by others. For the third one, we jump down to verse 16. Hypocrites look for loopholes, so they don't have to keep their commitments. Jesus says, Woe to you, blind guides, who say if anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing. But if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by that oath. They want to be able to make an oath that sounds good, but won't actually hold them to keeping their commitments. Then we look down at verse 24. We see that hypocrites major on the minors and totally neglect the majors. Jesus says, you blind guides, straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel. They are tithing the mint and the dill and the cumin, but they don't care about justice and mercy and faithfulness. The fifth issue in verse 25 is that hypocrites only care about the outside appearances of their lives and not the internal state of their hearts. Jesus says they clean the outside of the cup, but the inside is full of greed and self-indulgence. So based on these descriptions, is the church full of hypocrites? Sure. Some churches are, at some times, but you know, so is the world. It's part of our human nature. We like others to think that we're good. We like to appear good, and we don't really like to do the hard work of actually living up to our own professed values. But also notice what hypocrisy is not. Hypocrisy is not actually believing and trying to follow the Lord, but still falling into sin and falling short of your best aspirations. Most believers that I know sincerely believe in the Lord and desire to follow Him and honor Him with their lives, but they also struggle with ongoing sin in their lives. They will readily admit that they are sinners and that they fall short. And they're not trying to pretend that they are something other than what they actually are. Are there exceptions? Absolutely. The church is home to some real hypocrites. And all of us at times can be tempted to play the hypocrite, especially when we're ashamed of our sinful behavior. And so we pretend that we're doing better than we are. But the good news of the gospel gives us the grace to admit When we are broken, inadequate, and falling short. We will never be self-sufficient. We don't have to pretend that we're so good that we don't need Jesus Jesus frees us from hypocrisy and invites us into a life of authentic, humble discipleship, fully dependent on Him. Let's turn now to Psalm 53. It's written to the choir master according to Mahaloth, it's a masculine of David. The fool says in his heart, there is no God. They are corrupt, doing abominable iniquity. There is none who does good. God looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They have all fallen away Together they have become corrupt. There is none who does good, not even one. Have those who work evil no knowledge, who eat up my people as they eat bread, and do not call upon the Lord There they are in great terror where there is no terror, for God scatters the bones of him who encamps against you. You put them to shame, for God has rejected them. Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion. When God restores the fortunes of his people, let Jacob rejoice. Let Israel be glad Well, what do we need? We need salvation. We need God to come to the rescue that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion because Psalm fifty three is describing what all of us are like in and of ourselves. God looks down at us, and without Christ, without salvation, we are corrupt and we do not do good. Hypocrisy is to pretend otherwise Faith is to confess that that's so and look to Jesus for salvation. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we know what we are in and of ourselves. We are sinners. We need a Savior. In our thoughts, in our words, in our deeds. In the things that we choose to do that we know we should not do, and the things that we leave undone that we know we should be doing, in all of these things, Father, we are sinners Through and through, in and of ourselves, but thankfully that is not the end of the story. You sent your son. Salvation has come out of Zion for your people in the Lord Jesus Christ. Continue the work you've begun in us to change our hearts and make us more like Jesus day by day. By your grace and for your glory, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hopefully, you can join me again tomorrow as we continue in the Gospel of Matthew during this holy week. Have a blessed day in the Lord.