Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It's our fourth week together in the Gospel of Matthew, our second day. We're in the second half of Matthew 7, verses 15 through 29. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. We pray that you would write your word in our hearts and help us to see you very clearly through your word, that we might love you, that we might walk in your ways, that we might love Jesus. and follow him more faithfully. We pray this all in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. Amen. Well today we're asking the question what are the most terrifying words that you could hear? What are the most terrifying words that you could hear? You'll hear them, I think, in today's passage. Matthew 7, 15-13. 29. Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits. So every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out many demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name? And then will I declare to them, I never knew you Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And every one who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell and great was the fall of it. And when Jesus finished these things, the crowds were astonished at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one who had authority and not as their scribes. So what would be the worst possible words you could hear? Well, we do see them in today's passage. When Jesus says, I never knew you, depart from me. But first, before we dig into those words, just as a little aside, I want to take a quick look at verses 15 to 20. Judging a tree by its fruit. Here, this is really instructions from Jesus on how we are to evaluate leaders and teachers within the church and decide whether or not we should listen to them or follow them. If a leader says wonderful sounding things and promises wonderful sounding things, you need to look for fruit. What have they actually done? What has been the impact of their ministry? Look at the fruit in their own lives. Look at the fruit in the lives of those who sit under their teaching. Look at the fruit of others who have said and promised similar things. Because Jesus wants us to be discerning before we follow anyone. And that gets very sobering when we get into verses 21 to 23, because here you have some people who were teachers within the church. Jesus is describing professing Christians who are active within the life and ministry of the church, even teachers and leaders. But Jesus says to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. They've done many mighty works in the name of Jesus. But they will spend eternity separated from him. How does this happen? And how can we be sure that we will not hear those terrifying words on Judgment Day? It really does come down to a very simple question. Does Jesus know you and do you know him? Is he really your Lord and do you walk with him? I call my devotionals walking with Jesus. Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. Walking with Jesus in the Word day by day. Because only a daily walk with the Lord, a real and vital relationship with Him, matters in eternity. Those whom Jesus knows are those who are His and those who know Him. They are the ones who understand the kingdom of God, the heart of God, the ways of God. Jesus is not talking about moral performance when he condemns these people as workers of lawlessness. If we did not know the Lord, everything we would do in his name would be done for our glory and honor, and is thus lawless, even our best deeds. So do you know him? And does he know you? One evidence of this is at the very end of the Sermon on the Mount when Jesus says, if you hear his words and you do them, you're like a wise man who builds his house. But if you hear the words of Jesus and they just kind of go in one ear and out the other, or you say yes and amen to them, but you ignore them, that's evidence that perhaps you don't really know the Lord. It's a sobering thing, but it's something we need to think about before God. All right, let's go to Psalm 17. Here is someone who knew the Lord, a man after God's own heart, a prayer of David. Hear a just cause, O Lord. Attend to my cry. Give ear to my prayer, from lips free of deceit. From your presence let my vindication come. Let your eyes behold the right. You have tried my heart, you have visited me by night, you have tested me, and you will find nothing. I have purposed that my mouth will not transgr With regard to the works of man, by the word of your lips I have avoided the ways of the violet. My steps have held fast to your paths. My steps have not slipped. My feet have not slipped. I will call upon you, for you will answer me. Incline your ear to me. Hear my words. Wondrously show Your steadfast love, O Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at your right hand. Keep me as the apple of your eye. Hide me in the shadow of your wings from the wicked who do me violence, my deadly enemies who surround me. They close their hearts to pity. With their mouths, they speak arrogantly. They have now surrounded our steps. They've set their eyes to cast us to the ground. It's like a lion eager to tear, as a young lion lurking in ambush, arise, O Lord, confront him, subdue him, deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword, from men by your hand, O Lord, from men of the world, whose portion is in this life. You fill their womb with treasure. They're satisfied with children. They leave their abundance to their infants. As for me? I shall behold your face in righteousness. When I awake, I shall be satisfied with your likeness. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, we can pray Psalm seventeen from the heart sincerely only because of Jesus our Savior. We can't say that if you were to test us you would find nothing to blame us for. We cannot say that we have purposed that our mouths will not transgress. But Jesus fulfilled these words. He pleased you perfectly in every way, and at the cross he took upon himself all of our sin and shame, and he gave us his perfect righteousness, so we can praise Psalm seventeen, in Christ, our Redeemer and our righteousness. And so hear us. Hear us We don't want to be full of deceit. We won't don't want to deceive ourselves or try to deceive you. We know that we are under attack from an enemy who hates us. Our adversary the devil roams around like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour? We ask, O Lord We ask, wondrously show your steadfast love, O Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at your right hand. We come to you seeking refuge from our adversaries. At your right hand, in Jesus who is the right hand of the Father, we come to you looking for refuge We come to you looking that we would not look around at the world and the prosperous and the rich and the successful and envy them because we have been given a promise of something so much better. And that is that way we will behold your face in righteousness. When we awake in eternity, we will be satisfied with your likeness. That is the most wonderful thing we could ever be given. So help us to live for that and keep our eyes where they belong and our heart where it belongs, trusting in you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again as we're walking through the Gospels. We're going to be moving on from the Sermon on the Mount, going into Matthew chapter 8 tomorrow. Lord willing, you'll be with us. Have a blessed day in the Lord.