Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church We're in the middle of Matthew 27 today, in the second day of our 13th week, and we're going to be looking at Simon of Cyrene, who carried Jesus' cross, and so we're asking this question. What if you had to carry Jesus' cross? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you again this morning to look to you in your word, to hear from you, to grow in you. Grow us by your Holy Spirit. Lead us to follow Jesus. We pray in his name. Amen. Matthew 17, 24 to 44. So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing, but rather that a riot was beginning He took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, I am innocent of this man's blood. See to it yourselves. And all the people answered, His blood be on us and on our children Then he released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, delivered him to be crucified. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor's headquarters, and they gathered the whole battalion before him, and they stripped him. and put a scarlet robe on him, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and put a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews! And they spit on him and took the reed and struck him on the head. And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe and put his own clothes on him and led him away to crucify him. As they went out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. They compelled this man to carry his cross. And when they came to a place called Golgotha, which means place of a skull, they offered him wine to drink mixed with gall. But when he tasted it, he would not drink it. And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots. Then they sat down and kept watch over him there and over his head they put the charge against him, which read, This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads and saying, You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself! If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. So also the chief priests with the scribes and the elders mocked him, saying, He saved others, he cannot save himself. He is the king of the Jews. Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him. He trusts in God. Let God deliver him now, if he desires him, for he said, I am the Son of God. And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way. Now we know almost nothing about Simon of Cyrene for certain. other than the fact that he was forced to carry Jesus' cross up the hill to Golgotha. The fact that his name is recorded in the gospel accounts is significant for two reasons. First of all, Simon almost certainly went on to be a follower of Jesus and a member of the church. Otherwise his name would not have been known to Matthew Cyrene, his hometown in northern Africa, did become a major center for early Christianity. Was it Simon himself who brought them the gospel? We can't know that for sure. But second, the inclusion of his name and his hometown is just another specific, verifiable historical detail in the Gospels. These kinds of details show us that we are not dealing with myths and legends, but with real history recorded within the lifetimes of the people who lived it. The fact that he had to carry Jesus' cross shows that Jesus was weak from exhaustion, hunger, dehydration, and the cruel beating he received from the Romans. In fact, this whole section accurately reflects what was foretold of Jesus in Isaiah 53, 750 years before these events. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. That's Isaiah 53, verses 3 to 7. So I've been thinking about a very personal question. What if you had been compelled to carry Jesus' cross? What if you had taken the bloody wood from off his shoulders, looked him in the eye, placed the burden on your own shoulders, and walked up that hill to the place of death? How would that change you? We are called to pick up the cross of Jesus. That's what he meant when he said, if anyone would come after me, he must deny himself. take up his cross and follow me, Matthew 16, 24. This looks different at various times in our lives, but it usually means being rejected, mocked, ridiculed, and even hated by the world. I confess that at times I don't want to carry the cross. At those times I need to see the grace in such a task and let the grace compel me. Simon didn't necessarily want to carry the cross, but he was compelled to do so, and that made all the difference in his life. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 63. As we turn to the Psalms, we're reminded that they show us much of Christ, the heart of Christ, really. So the Psalm of David when he was with when he was in the wilderness of Judah. We know that both David and Jesus spent time in the wilderness of Judah under trial. David fleeing from Saul, Jesus being tempted and tried in the desert. Oh God, you are my God. Earnestly I seek you. My soul thirsts for you, my flesh faints for you, as in a dry and weary land where there is no water. So I have looked upon you in the sanctuary, beholding your power and glory. Because your steadfast love is better than life, my lips will praise you. So I will bless you as long as I live. In your name I will lift up my hands. My soul will be satisfied as with fat, as with rich food, and my mouth will praise you with joyful lips, when I remember you on my bed, and meditate on you in the watches of the night, for you have been my help. And in the shadow of your wings I will sing for joy. My soul clings to you. Your right hand upholds me. But those who seek to destroy my life shall go down into the depths of the earth. They shall be given over to the power of the sword. They shall be a portion for jackals. But the king Shall rejoice in God. All who swear by Him shall exult, for the mouths of liars will be stopped. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you that when the Lord Jesus was in the desert wilderness being tried and tested, he found his satisfaction in praising you. He had no food or water for days upon end, but he found his joy, he found his sustenance in pleasing you. At times we are called to go through desert wilderness places in our spiritual lives, in our emotional lives. We feel lost, we feel alone, we feel desperate, we feel hungry, we feel thirsty. We need you in those moments. Would you satisfy us with yourself? Would you feed us with your grace, with your son, with your very self? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I hope you have a blessed day In the Lord.