Good morning and welcome to another Advent Devotional in Scripture and Carols. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill. Presbyterian Church. We're in the middle of week two. We are celebrating Advent, looking forward to celebrating the coming of Christ on Christmas Eve. We do have a Christmas Eve service, which will be at 6 p. m. And we would invite you to come out. It's a wonderful And our message this year will be from Hebrews 1 6 Um, when he brings his firstborn into the world, he says, Let all God's angels worship him. So we'll be talking about Jesus, the firstborn son of God, the the only begotten son of God, the firstborn of all creation, what that means. Who is he? And that'll be the answer to this question. What child is this? That he would come into the world and God would command the angels to worship him. So that'll be our Christmas Eve message and like I said, there'll be a lot of music, a lot of carols And ending with candlelight and the singing of Silent Night, which is always a wonderful way to end our Christmas Eve service together. Anyway, let's pray and let's begin today's devotion together. Heavenly Father, thank you for the gift of your Son, Jesus Christ, the Word of God made flesh, our Savior, our Redeemer. Please teach us more about Jesus and remind us of what is true. that we might worship him aright and anew in our hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. What child is this? A great Christmas carol, a favorite of many, one of my favorites. And some scripture behind it, Luke 9, 6, for unto us a child is born, to us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. So what child is this? This is the child who is born and the Son who is given. I think child is born refers to his human nature. He's a child. He was born of Mary. But son is given refers to his divine nature. He's the Son of God, given from God to the world. the government shall be upon his shoulders, because he's King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Specifically, this is the government of the throne of David. So he is the keeper, he is the fulfillment of the promise made to David. That one of David's offspring would sit on the throne forever. Jesus is the fulfillment of that promise. He sits on the throne forever. And his throne names, as the enthroned one, he has four throne names. He's the wonderful counselor, the one who's full of all wisdom for us, who counsels us well in life. He's the mighty God, the one who's omnipotent and powerful. He calmed the storms, he raised the dead, he fed five thousand, he cast out a legion of demons. He is mighty God He's the everlasting father. He is fatherlike toward us his people because he cares for us. He provides for us. He protects us. He is our everlasting Father, and He is the Prince of Peace. There is no peace apart from Jesus Christ, the Prince of Peace. And then from the Gospels we have Luke 2, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. This is the chorus. Of what child is this? This is the message of the angels to the shepherds, the good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David. Bethlehem, the city of David, again emphasizing that he's the fulfillment of the promise made to David a thousand years prior that one of his offspring. Would sit on the throne forever. He is Christ, that means Messiah, anointed one. That's the one they've been waiting for. The Lord, the ruler. The one in charge. That's who he is. John 1 tells us more about him, and this is quoted as well in What Child Is This. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. In this sense, we can see Luke 2. 11 is really emphasizing his human nature. He's the son of David, he's the Savior, he's the Messiah. He's the promised one. And then John 1 is emphasizing the divine nature because he is the eternal word of God, who was with God in the beginning and who is God. And that word took on flesh and dwelt among us. He's so full of glory, the glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. This is Jesus. Do you know this Jesus? Do you know him in this way? Is he your wonderful counselor? Is he your mighty God? Is he your everlasting father? Is he your Prince of Peace? Is he your Lord? Have you heard him to receive the word of God made flesh? This is the one we celebrate not only at Christmas but all year long, and we need to receive him and we need to hear him. Well, in eighteen sixty-five, at the age of twenty-nine William Chatterton Dix was a manager for a marine insurance company in Glasgow, Scotland, and he was confined to bed for several months by a serious illness. But during his recovery, he suffered from severe depression. And the combination of being near death and having this severe depression prompted in him a profound spiritual awakening. He sought the Lord. He read the Bible extensively, and then he found comfort in writing hymns and poetry. He wrote, What child is this? He also wrote a poem called The Manger Throne, which was inspired by the visit of the Magi. How did this poem become a carol? Well, William Dix was not a composer, he was not a musician, he was a businessman who kind of turned to poetry as a way of seeking the Lord and um during this time of revival in his life. So his poem was just a poem for a few years. Later, it got paired up with a traditional 16th century English folk tune. called Greensleeves. Now Greensleeves, we know it best. We hear it and we think, What child is this? But it's an older tune. It had been around for, you know, almost 300 years by this point. And it's originally Uh uh a secular love song. It's actually mentioned twice in Shakespeare's play, The Mer The Merry Wives of Windsor. So it kind of has Secular and really immoral associations as a secular uh love song, but it has a beautiful haunting melody. And Sometime before, a couple hundred years before William Dix wrote What Child Is This, its beautiful haunting melody had become associated with the Christmas season. And so he, Dix liked green sleeves. It got paired with it. There was harmonization that was probably done by a guy named John Stainer. It was first published in 1871. six years after it was written, in a prestigious collection called Christmas Carols Old and New. What child is this who laid to rest on Mary's lap is sleeping? Whom angels greet with anthems sweet, while shepherds watch are keeping, This, this is Christ the King, Whom shepherds guard and angels sing, Haste, haste! To bring him Laud, that is, to bring him praise and glory, the babe, the son of Mary. Why lies he in such mean a state, where ox and ass are feeding? Good Christian, fear. For sinners here, the silent word is pleading. He's the word of God made flesh, but he's a silent baby. He's pleading for sinners Nails spear shall pierce him through, the cross be borne for me, for you. Hail, hail, the word made flesh, the babe, the son of Mary. So bring him incense, gold and myrrh, come, peasant, king, to own him, the king of kings, salvation brings Let loving hearts enthrone him. Raise, raise the song on high. The virgin sings her lullaby. Joy, joy, for Christ is born, the babe, the son of Mary. Let's pray Oh Lord Jesus, what a wonderful Savior you are. Father, thank you for giving your Son, the Word of God made flesh, the Son of God, the Son of Mary, our Redeemer, our King. Holy Spirit, stir our hearts to worship Jesus, to love him deeply, and to follow him more faithfully. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me again for another devotional. Let's listen together now to What Child Is This? What child is this too late to rest? On Mary's life is the great mangels greet with anthrans meet While shepers watch A key This is Christ the key who shepherds God and angels. Have days to bring him on the baby, the son of Mary. Why lies he in such a mean a state? Where ox and dust are feeding Good Christians fear for sinus here to work. Is pleading nail fear shall pierce until the cross be born for me. Hill the word made flesh the baby the sun of Mary. So bring him since gold and myrrh. Compared king to all him The king of king salvation prints the loving art In the room. Rage rage the sun on eye, the virgin sins, the road. Joy, joy, for Christ is born the babe, the son of Mary.