Good morning and welcome to another week of our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Huddle. Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I'm so glad that you've joined us for these ongoing lessons in the Heidelberg Catechism, a wonderful treasure that we have. All the way back from 1563, it's guiding us to gospel comfort, this series of questions and answers. That's what a catechism is. It's just a teaching tool. That's a series of questions and answers that helps you think through and learn doctrine. And we are pivoting this week. We've been last week was all about Jesus as Savior and Messiah. What does it mean? He's the Son of God, He's the Savior, He's the Messiah or the Anointed One. Now we're shifting to thinking about us as Christians and what does it mean to be a Christian as we look at question number 32 today. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time that we have together. To be in the catechism, in the Heidelberg Catechism, and in your word. We pray that your Holy Spirit would come and be present with us and would teach us and grow us. In our knowledge of you, in our understanding of the gospel, in our understanding of who we are as your children, and Father, that we would follow you and honor you with our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright. So we're in the Heidelberg Catechism. We're going to be looking at question 32 today, but first we're going to do some review. Why is Jesus, why is the Son of God Why is the Son of God called Jesus, that is, Savior? Answer: Because he saves us from all our sins. And because salvation is not to be sought or found in anyone else. It's a great reminder. So then, do those who seek their salvation or well-being in saints, in themselves, or anywhere else also believe in the only Savior Jesus? Answer no. Though they boast of him in words, they in fact deny the only Savior Jesus. For one of two things must be true Either Jesus is not a complete Savior, or those who by true faith accept this Savior must find in him all that is necessary for their salvation. This is such a great call to us, as we looked at last week, not to trust in ourselves, not to look anywhere else for our salvation or our well-being. We have everything we need in Jesus' the all-sufficient, complete Savior. And then question 31, we looked at on Friday. Why is he called Christ? That is anointed? Because he has been ordained by God the Father and anointed with the Holy Spirit to be our chief prophet and teacher. who has fully revealed to us the secret counsel of his will and God concerning our redemption, our only high priest, who by the one sacrifice of his body has redeemed us. and who continually intercedes for us before the Father, and our eternal King, who governs us by His Word and Spirit, and who defends and preserves us in the redemption obtained. for us. So Jesus is the anointed one, prophet, priest, and king, the one who reveals the counsel of God, who sacrifices himself for us, intercedes for us, and who defends and preserves us as our King. Well then today we come to question 32. Why are you called a Christian? Answer, because I am a member of Christ by faith. and thus share in his anointing, so that I may, as a prophet, confess his name As priest, present myself a living sacrifice of thankfulness before him, to him, and as king, fight with a free and good conscience against sin and the devil in this life. and hereafter reign with him eternally over all creatures. This is a great answer that helps us to really see our identity. When we say Our identity is in Christ. We are Christians. Our primary identity is that we are in Christ. What does that mean? To be a Christian, to be in Christ? It is that we belong to Christ. We're a member of Christ by faith. And that means that as He is Christ the anointed one, we are Christians who are anointed in Christ. And we share in the prophet office, the priest office, and the king office, of course not in the same way that Jesus does But we can speak forth the Word of God faithfully as we as we speak Scripture, as we memorize Scripture, as we understand our confession of faith, and we say it We are confessing the truth. We're speaking the truth of God with our lips in a prophetic way. We are a priest. uh priesthood of all believers we believe in. And part of what we do as a priest is we offer ourselves as a living sacrifice of thanksgiving to him. And as a king In the kingdom, we fight. We engage in spiritual warfare. We fight against sin. We fight against the devil, and we will reign with him forever. So there's so much scripture we could look at. We're going to look at quite a bit this morning, but just know that you may have a scripture verse in mind that we don't get to or don't cover, or there may be there's plenty more that we probably could talk about But let's go through some scripture that gives support to this answer answer. First of all, 1 Peter 2. 9. But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Right here in this verse we see a royal priesthood. That's kingship and priesthood. And then we see that you may proclaim, that's prophetic, the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. So we're chosen. We are kingly and priestly because we are a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, and we're called to a prophetic proclamation. What do we proclaim? Not ourselves. We proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. First Corinthians 12. For just as the body is one, It has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ. For in one spirit we were all baptized into one body. Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and we're all made to drink of one Spirit. Now you are the body of Christ. and individually members of it. And the part in between, between 13 and 27 that I sort of skipped over for the sake of time and space Talks about how different members have different functions. But notice we all have the Holy Spirit. We've all been baptized in the Holy Spirit. That's the anointing. Remember at Jesus' baptism where he was anointed with water by John the Baptizer, but then God the Father anointed him with the Holy Spirit out of heaven. So water, spirit. Baptism anointing. Those pictures are together. And this is what Paul is drawing on here. In one spirit we were baptized. That's spirit baptism. into one body. And so that's the anointing that we have received that makes us members of Christ and members of one another. And we may have different functions within the body, but we all share in that anointing of the Holy Spirit. 1 John 2 talks about this anointing. 1 John 2, 27. But the anointing that you received from him abides in you. And again, that's the Holy Spirit. And you have no need that anyone should teach you, but as his anointing teaches you about everything and is true and is no lie, just as it has taught you, abide in him. Now We want to be clear, elsewhere in Scripture it says that God has specially gifted and anointed some to be teachers, to be pastor teachers. within the church. So it's not that you don't need a pastor like me or a teaching elder, as I'm called in the PCA. It's that you know Jesus personally. If you have the anointing. In other words, if the Holy Spirit has been given to you and the Holy Spirit lives in you, you've been anointed with the Holy Spirit and you know Jesus personally. You don't need someone else To tell you about Jesus only in a secondhand way. The Holy Spirit convicts you when you read the Bible. The Holy Spirit brings conviction to you and comfort to you. as as Christ is made real to your soul. And that is so important to know that the personal knowledge of God It doesn't need to be secondhand. It is personal because of the anointing of the Holy Spirit that we all have. All believers have this anointing. Revelation 5, verses 9 and 10, is a great scene of worship around the throne of God in heaven, worshiping God, worshiping the Lamb. who looks as if he's been slain and is alive again. There's the worship of God by the twenty-four elders. They sang a new song saying Worthy are you, they're saying this to the Lamb of God, to Jesus, worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals For you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God, from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them A kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth This is who we are. We are a kingdom and priests to our God. We have been ransomed. From every tribe, language, and people and nation, and we shall reign, that's kingly, on the earth. So we can see here, priest, king, for sure. And just the fact that they're proclaiming this is itself prophetic in function. Hebrews 13, 15 Through him, through Jesus then, let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. We are to offer up a sacrifice because we're priests. What's the sacrifice we offer? Praise to God, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. That's what we're called to. That's who we are. Our final one, Romans 12. 1, I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. So again, we could have looked at many other scriptures, but these are enough to show us here we are priests. We offer up and we're the sacrifice. Just as Jesus was both priest and sacrifice on the cross, we are both priest and sacrifice. The difference is We offer up our bodies as a living sacrifice. Jesus offered himself up unto death. We offer up ourselves as a living sacrifice. So we are priests. who offer ourselves as a living sacrifice. That is our spiritual worship, Romans 12. 1. We are priests who offer a sacrifice of praise to God, Hebrews 13, 15. We are a kingdom. and priests to our God, and we will reign on the earth as kings. Revelation 5. 10 We have the anointing of the Holy Spirit who abides in us. 1 John 2. 27. We are members of the body of Christ. We've been baptized by the Holy Spirit in one Spirit. We were all baptized. That's spirit baptism that makes you a true believer and a true member of the body of Christ. That's the anointing that makes us members of Christ, the anointed one. We are a chosen race, we are a royal priesthood, we are a holy nation. That is who we are. So again, why are you called a Christian? Question 32 asks. And the answer, which we've just supported amply from Scripture, is that because I am a member of Christ by faith. and thus share in his anointing, so that I may as prophet confess his name, as priest present myself a living sacrifice of thankfulness to him, and as king Fight with a free and good conscience against sin and the devil in this life, and hereafter reign with him eternally over all creatures. Let's pray Oh Heavenly Father, what a special privilege, what an awesome responsibility, what a tremendous calling, what an unshakable identity you have given us that we should be called Christians. Those who belong to Christ, those who share in the anointing of the Holy Spirit by baptism, those who who speak forth the Word of God, we proclaim the excellencies of Him who called us out of darkness. Those who offer up ourselves as a living sacrifice, those who offer up the sacrifice of praise, and those who will reign on the earth. and who have authority given to us as kings over the powers of darkness, the powers of hell, and sin in our lives. This is all from you. This is all by grace. This is all through Jesus our Savior. And it's in His name we thank you and give you praise Amen. Amen. Well, let's now respond to this wonderful truth from God by worshiping him together in song. Take my life and let it be come. Consider for me. Take my moments and my taste let them flow in. Feastless praise, let down below his little sprays. Take my hands and let them know. I be imposed on the love, take my feet and let them be swift. Take my voice and let me sing always. Wait only for my key, take my wheels and let them be filled with methods. Trumpy fill the wind is from the Take my will and make it thine, it shall be old. Longer mine, take my heart, it is thy own, it shall be thy royal. It shall be that. Take my love my Lord I feel Take myself. I will be ever only every alloy.