Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. Getting to know our Savior better together. I'm Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day five. of our first week. We're in Matthew chapter three and Psalm five. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for Jesus, the Word of God made flesh, who walked among us, who showed us your truth and righteousness. and who accomplished our salvation. Help us to see Jesus and to love Him clearly, dearly, wonderfully, for the time we spend together in your word together today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Matthew 3, verses 1 to 12. In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. Now John wore a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him. And they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance, and do not presume to say to yourselves, we have Abraham as our father For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn. But the chaff He will burn with unquenchable fire. Well, in the ministry of John the Baptist, we see today a strong emphasis on repentance. John the Baptist came preaching repentance and baptizing with a baptism of repentance. In the response of the people, we apparently see examples of true repentance and false repentance. Those who were truly repentant came confessing their sins, and verse 6 tells us. But apparently the religious leaders were coming just to make an appearance, just to put on a good show. So what makes for true repentance? Well, in John's message in Matthew 3, we can see three marks of true repentance. First, true repentance bears fruit in keeping with repentance. Because true repentance involves a deep change of mind and heart, change of direction, of heart orientation, true repentance will bear fruit. This isn't a matter of perfectionism, but of sincerity, humility, confession of sin, hungering and thirsting for righteousness, love for the Lord and for others. Repentance leads to a realization. of the poverty of our spirit before God, and it results in meekness, gentleness, and sincerity. All the things that are summarized by Jesus and the Beatitudes in Matthew 5, which we'll get to before too long. Second, true repentance doesn't trust in pedigree. but openly confesses sin and need. The Pharisees and the Sadducees were trusting in their position as children of Abraham, hoping to claim standing before God based on their heritage and their position. But the genuine people came confessing their sin, acknowledging their need for mercy. Third, true repentance knows that salvation is the supernatural work of God. God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham, John the Baptist said. That's what God must do with our hearts. From these stones, he must raise up children of Abraham. Our hearts are naturally stony and hard. He must transform us. Repentance is a free gift. of God's grace. It requires supernatural intervention and transformation. We cannot have it unless we realize that we cannot produce it in ourselves. The good news is that God does grant repentance and salvation by his mighty power. He's the one who judges and he's the God who saves. All glory and honor belong to him. That's Matthew 3, 1 to 2, or 1 to 12. Let's go to Psalm 5 now. And we will pray together based on Psalm 5. To the choirmaster for the flute, to Psalm of David, give ear to my words, O Lord, consider my groaning, give attention to the sound of my cry, my king. King and my God, for to you do I pray. O Lord, in the morning you hear my voice. In the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch. For you are not a God who delights in wickedness. Evil may not dwell with you. The boastful shall not stand before your eyes. You hate all evildoers. You destroy those who speak lies. The Lord abhors bloodthirsty and deceitful men. But I, through the abundance of your steadfast love, will enter your house. I will bow down toward your holy temple in the fear of you. Lead me, O Lord, in your righteousness. Because of my enemies, make your way straight before me. For there is no truth in their mouth Their inmost self is destructive, their throat is an open grave, they flatter with their tongue. Make them bear their guilt, O God. Let them fall by their own counsels, because of the abundance of their transgressions, cast them out. For they have rebelled against you. But let all who take refuge in you rejoice. Let them ever sing for joy. Spread your protection over them, that those who love your name may exalt in you. For you bless the righteous, O Lord. You cover him with favor as with a shield. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good to your people who take refuge in you. By nature, in our own hearts, we also have throats that are an open grave. We also have an inmost self that is destruction. We also flatter with our tongues. And yet you, O Lord, In your righteousness, you make your way straight before us. You give us refuge in Christ, and you give us joy that we can sing for. We thank you for Jesus, our Savior, who came walking paths of righteousness so perfectly that He can then lead us as our good shepherd. You don't delight in wickedness, Father. Help us not to delight in wickedness either. Hear us. Watch over us. Keep us. Protect us, lead us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that is one week in the books. We're doing these five days a week, Monday through Friday. Give you time to catch up over the weekend. So join us next week. As we continue in the Gospel of Matthew and in the Psalms, have a blessed day in the Lord, have a blessed Lord's day coming up. May you worship Christ together with his people.