Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. As we are getting to know our Savior better, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church Our fourth week together in the Gospel of Matthew brings us to Matthew chapter 7. We're here in the last chapter of the Sermon on the Mount, and our question uh for today is What did Jesus mean when he said, judge not? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is perfect. Thank you for your Son, our great Savior and teacher. Holy Spirit, would you write the word on our hearts today that we might see Jesus and know him better and follow him more faithfully? It's in his name we pray. Amen. Matthew seven, verses one to fourteen. Judge not that you be not judged For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye when there is the log in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. Do not give dogs what is holy. And do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you. Ask, and it will be given you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened to you. For every one who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? So, whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them. For this is the law and the prophets. Enter by the narrow gate, for the gate is wide, and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many For the gate is narrow, and the way is hard, that leads to life, and those who find it are few. So, years ago John 3. 16 was the most quoted and best known Bible verse in America. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. It's been called a summary of the New Testament in one verse. But then, reportedly, several years ago, John 3. 16 was usurped by Matthew 7. 1. Judge not, that you not be judged. But have we misunderstood what Jesus meant by this teaching? Here are three things that judge not does not mean followed by what it does mean and how we should apply it. The first thing we need to know is that judge not does not mean that we cannot make moral choices or recognize moral distinctions. Jesus certainly did not mean that we cannot call certain actions right and other actions wrong. In this Sermon on the Mount Jesus has already declared lust, insulting, worrying, divorce, and other actions as sinful. Agreeing with Jesus and Scripture and calling sin is not condemned by Judge Not. Secondly, judge not does not mean that we cannot condemn or criticize the sinful actions of public figures. John the Baptist was arrested and imprisoned because he publicly condemned King Herod's action of stealing his brother's wife from him and marrying her himself. When public figures sin in public ways, it is perfectly legitimate for Christians, especially Christian leaders, to denounce these actions. This is part of proclaiming the truth and shepherding the flock of God. And third, judge not does not mean that we should not lovingly confront someone who sins against us. In Matthew 18, Jesus says that if someone sins against us, we should go to that person and tell them their fault privately. Jesus told us how to properly and lovingly confront someone who has sinned against us. And we should do what Jesus taught. This is part of living in Christian community, and it is not judging behavior. So if that's what judge not doesn't mean What does judge not mean? Well, first of all, we are not to condemn anyone as lost and without hope or hellbound. God alone sees the heart and God alone judges the heart. We cannot condemn anyone, and we should be thankful that we do not bear that responsibility. Secondly, we should avoid assuming bad motives for other people's actions. When you observe someone's actions, always assume the best possible motives for them. Only surrender your best assumption if it is definitely disproven, and then move to the next best assumption of their motive. In other words, don't be quick to judge someone's motive and assume the worst of them. And the third is always be ready and willing to forgive. Know that you are sinful and you stand redeemed only because you have been greatly and marvelously forgiven. So be ready. to forgive others when they sin too. That's what it means to judge not. You want to treat others the way you would want to be treated. You wouldn't want someone else to condemn you, you wouldn't want someone to assign bad motives to your actions, and you wouldn't want someone to refuse to forgive you. And so we should not do that to others. Alright, let's go look at Psalm 16, which is our Psalm for praying today. It's a miktum of David. It's one of my favorite Psalms. It's wonderful. Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. I say to the Lord, You are my Lord. I have no good apart from you. As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. The sorrows of those who run after another God shall multiply. Their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out, or take up their names on my lips. The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup. You hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance I bless the Lord, who gives me counsel. In the night also my heart instructs me. I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I shall not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad, and my whole being rejoices, my flesh also dwells secure. For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy one see corruption You make known to me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, how we need you to preserve us. We need you to preserve us from a sinful and fallen world that corrupts We need you to preserve us from our own tendency to be judgmental, to condemn others, to assume the worst of their motives, and to be slow and reluctant to forgive when we are deeply hurt. We need you to preserve us. We take refuge in you. May we look at your people, your excellent ones, your saints, and may we delight in them. May we rejoice that you have made us a part of your people. But may we not go after the world and its wicked idolatry. May we not participate with the world in the things that it wants to promote in terms of selfishness. and pride and arrogance and boasting. Instead let us be content with you. You are our chosen portion and our cup. You have been good and gracious to us. Let us follow the counsel of your word so that in the night, your word, hidden in our hearts, can bring us counsel and lead us. To have you always before us, to have Christ always at our right hand, so that we may not be shaken. Only then will our hearts be glad. Only then will our whole being rejoice. Only then will we dwell secure. We know that you will keep us, even through death, into eternal life, into your presence. Where there is everlasting joy, where there is fullness of pleasure. We long for that day. Help us to keep our eyes fixed on Jesus and fixed on our true heavenly home. We pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for another day of walking through the Gospels with Jesus. We're going to continue tomorrow in Matthew 7 and go on to Psalm 17. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.