Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill President. Presbyterian Church. It is good to be with you as we are here in our eighth week of this year-long journey through this wonderful set of questions and answers we call the Heidelberg Catechism because it was created in Heidelberg by a team of scholars and Bible teachers to create unity within the Protestant Church during the time of the Reformation in 1563. We are focused on grace and specifically how we lay hold of the grace of God through the mediator of Jesus. Jesus Christ and that is by faith. That's where we are in our progression. We're moving from guilt. We we spent some time in guilt early on. We're moving through grace now and we're heading toward gratitude as we pursue gospel comfort together. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gift of life that you have given us in your Son Jesus Christ. Thank you for the truth that you have spoken to us in your word. Please write your truth on our hearts, in our minds, on our souls, that we might know you and love you and trust you and your Son Jesus through the power of God. of the Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Today we're actually going to deal with one of my favorite of all the Heidelberg catechism questions, which is question number 21. But first we're going to review question 20. All men then saved by Christ just as they perished through Adam. You see, in Adam we all sinned, we all fell because we're all the offspring of Adam, we were all in Adam when he fell, and so we all fell because we're all his offspring. Does it work the same way with Christ as sort of automatic? No. Only those are saved who by a true faith are grafted into Christ and accept all his benefits. You get to be in Adam just by birth, just by nature. because he's our great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great grandpappy but you only get to be in Christ by faith and you only get the benefits of Christ, if by a true faith you are grafted into Christ. This leads to an obvious question and that question is what is true faith and this answer I love this answer what is true faith true faith is a sure knowledge Whereby I accept as true all that God has revealed to us in His Word. At the same time It is a firm confidence that not only to others, but also to me, God has granted forgiveness of sins. everlasting righteousness and salvation out of mere grace, only for the sake of Christ's merits This faith, the Holy Spirit, works in my heart by the gospel. That is a great definition of what is true and saving faith. a sure knowledge whereby I accept as true all that God has revealed in his word. So that's the first thing. If God says it, I believe it. That's true faith True faith doesn't scoff at the Word of God, doesn't balk at the Word of God, doesn't rebel against the Word of God, doesn't despise the Word of God. you accept as true all that God has revealed to us in His Word. That's why having a high view of Scripture, believing that the Holy Scriptures are the Word of God, breathed out by the mouth of God. fully reliable, authoritative, infallible, inerrant, throughout. Having that high view of Scripture is absolutely necessary because faith is A knowledge. It's a way of knowing. Faith is a way of knowing. It's a way of knowing that God has spoken and God is true, and what God has said in his word is true. But at the same time, while it's broadly focused on all that God has spoken in His Word, there is a specificity of how this applies directly to me in the gospel. And so it is a firm confidence. It's not only a sure knowledge, but it's also a firm confidence that not only to others, but also to me God has granted forgiveness of sins, everlasting righteousness, and salvation out of mere grace, only for the sake of Christ's merits. And this faith, the Holy Spirit, works in my heart by the gospel. So it's really Christ-centered. and gospel-centered, even as it is word-based, this knowledge and this confidence Well, where do we read about some of these things? There's a lot of scripture we could use for this question and answer, but we're going to try to be concise and stick to some highlights here Jesus, in John 17, as he's praying for us in what is known as his high priestly prayer, the prayer that he prayed for his disciples on the night he was betrayed, he said, And this is eternal life. that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. And then later he prays, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. You see, eternal life, salvation is knowledge. It's a knowledge of the one true God and of Jesus Christ, whom the one true God has sent. And so we are saved by faith, and that faith is a true knowledge of God and his sign, and it's grounded in the truth. We are sanctified, we're made holy, we're set apart. In the truth that is in the Word of God. And then we come to Hebrews 11, 1 to 3. And in Hebrews 11, verses 1 to 3, we get a definition. of faith. Hebrews 11 is the Hall of Fame of faith. It celebrates all the Old Testament saints who, like us, were saved by faith. begins with this definition. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their commendation. By faith we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God. so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. You see this first expression, faith is the assurance of things hoped for. That ties back into our catechism where they get this, it's a firm confidence or assurance that not only to others, but also to me. God has granted forgiveness of sins, everlasting righteousness, and salvation. Those are the things hoped for. Faith is the assurance or the firm confidence of the things hoped for, the conviction of these things that are not seen. You can't see forgiveness of sins. You can't see justification. You can't see adoption. You can't see your eternal inheritance. But by faith. We have assurance of these things. We have the conviction of these things. And it's the same way God's people have lived from the very beginning. Romans 1, 16-17, a great statement of the gospel, says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first. and also to the Greek, for in it, that is in the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. So you see it's in the gospel That the truth of salvation by faith, of righteousness of God by faith, is written. And that's why the gospel is the power of God for salvation. Again, we go back to our definition. This faith, the Holy Spirit, works in my heart by the gospel. The gospel that tells us that we are justified, we live by faith. One more. Actually two more. One more in Romans. Romans ten, nine to seventeen. Paul writes, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified. And with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the scripture says, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame, for there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him, for every one who calls on the name of the Lord Will be saved. This is salvation by faith. Confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord. Believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. You will be saved. You believe and you're justified, you see. The faith that we then speak shows our confidence, confirms our faith, and puts us in a place where everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame Everyone who calls in the name of the Lord will be saved. And then our next one's actually just continuing here in Romans 10. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? So, faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. How does faith come to us? through hearing. Hearing what? Hearing the word of Christ. As it's preached by someone who is sent, by someone who has beautiful feet, who brings us the good news. And again, just to remind us that ties back into our catechism question This faith, the Holy Spirit, works in my heart by the gospel. It's by the gospel that we hear that we're justified by faith in Christ alone. And we confess that Jesus is Lord and we believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead. But we can only we can only know this if someone tells us, if someone proclaims it to us, and they can only proclaim if they're sent out with The good news to preach, having beautiful feet prepared for the gospel of peace, and then we hear and we believe in the word of Christ. That is saving faith. So you might wonder, like, I don't know if I'm a Christian or not. I don't know if I really believe or not. Do I really have true in saving faith? Well, here's the test. Here's the test. True faith is a sure knowledge whereby I accept as true all that God has revealed to us in His Word. At the same time, it is a firm confidence that not only to others, but also to me, God has granted forgiveness of sins, everlasting righteousness, and salvation out of mere grace. Only for the sake of Christ's merits. This faith, the Holy Spirit, works in my heart by the gospel. Now you may hear that and you may say, yes, I believe. I believe that what God has revealed in His Word is true. I believe that only the merits of Christ can suffice for me, but I don't always have that firm confidence that God's actually granted it to me. In that case, you might be in the position of the man who said to Jesus, I believe, help my unbelief. The good news is that's a prayer that Jesus loves to answer. So if you know you believe this and you can say yes and amen to it, you can know that you have true faith, you can have real assurance. But if you see this and you say, I know it's true and I want to believe it, but I don't always have that firm confidence Then you can say, oh Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. And he will answer that prayer again through the preaching of the gospel as you receive it and believe it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for all that you have revealed to us in your holy gospel. We pray that you would write it on our hearts so deeply. That it would just be unquestionably the rock foundation of our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well thank you so much for joining us again for another edition of our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I hope you can join me tomorrow as we make our way on to the next question, which deals with the specific content of the gospel. Hope you can join us for that. As always, we're going to respond to God's word by worshiping him together in song Let's be the show Jesus is my Salvation hurts to serve God. Доля крести у вас есть была весь из нас тоже, ведь не может быть. My song crazing my baby over the Lord this is my glory. This is my song, Chris in my own, all this hero. Perfect information all in diaspora I'm not being alive watching and waiting for people deals with me. Light is blow And this is my story This is my story Creating my day all this you know it is my glory