Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is our twelfth week together. We're continuing in the Gospel of Matthew. We're still in Holy Week. We're sort of material, even though we're past it, because so much of the Gospels has taken up with that last week of Jesus' life and all that he taught and did during that final week. So today we are in Matthew 25. We're looking at some parables. of the final judgment. Matthew 25, verses 1 to 20. And our key question for the day is, what are you doing with what Jesus gave you? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you. Thank you for your son Jesus. Thank you for your word that teaches us all about Him. Help us to hear from our Lord today. With minds ready to understand and hearts ready to believe, receive, and respond. In Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 25 Verses 1 to 20. Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were foolish and five were wise. But when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them. But the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. And the bridegroom was delayed. They all became drowsy and slept. But at midnight there was a cry, Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him! Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps, and the foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the wise answered, saying, Since there will not be enough for us and for you, go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves. And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast. And the door was shut. Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered, truly, I say to you, I do not know you Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour. For it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted to them his property. To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his ability. Then he went away He who had received the five talents went at once and traded with them, and he made five talents more. So also he who had the two talents made two talents more. But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money. Now after a long time the master of those servants came and settled accounts with them. And when he who had received the five talents came forward, bringing five talents more, saying, Master, you delivered to me five talents, here I made five talents more, his master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little, I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. And he also who had the two talents came forward, saying, Master You deliver to me two talents. Here I have made two talents more. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little, I will set you over much, enter into the joy of your master. He who had received the one talent came forward, saying, Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed, so I was afraid. And I went and hid your talent in the ground. Here you have what is yours. But his master answered him, You wicked and slothful servant You knew that I reap where I have not sown, and gathered where I scattered no seed? Then you ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received what was mine with with interest So take a talent from him, and give it to the one who has ten talents. For to every one who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away and cast the worthless servant into the outer darkness, in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. So that is Matthew 25, verses 1 to 30. Apologize for a little typo in our header for today. Fix that real quick. And uh let's let's take a look at this. Sometimes You'll see the stories of the news of the investors are our news. You haven't noticed how much our news follows the stock market and the economy. Shows what we value as a society, money. So you'll see these stories in the news of these investors, these brokers, these hedge fund managers who've lost all their clients' money in some scheme. Sometimes they get fired, sometimes they end up in jail, sometimes they choose to end their lives in shame. But in today's passage, Jesus tells a story about three servants. Who were entrusted with their master's money to invest it wisely while the he was away on a journey. Each talent Mentioned in the parable was a large sum of money, weighing as much as 75 pounds. If these were gold talents, then they were worth hundreds of thousands of dollars each Even if they were silver talents, they may still have been worth more than $10,000 each. So don't feel too bad for the guy who only got one talent. He got 75 pounds of gold or 75 pounds of silver. For us, these talents represent the resources and the opportunities that Jesus has given us to advance his kingdom. What have you been given by Jesus? Do you feel like the man who was given five talents greatly blessed by God with education, opportunity, financial resources, or do you feel more like the two-talent servant? blessed with much, but not necessarily wealthy. I doubt many people watching this devotional would have the right to feel like the one talent servant, but maybe you do. Maybe you feel like God has hardly given you any resources you can use for His kingdom. However much you've been given, you have been entrusted with something. You have your life, your relationships, your time, your educational background, your financial resources, your understanding of spiritual things, your church. If you really think about it, most of us have indeed been greatly blessed. How much you have is not the question. What you do with what you've been given is the only thing that matters. So what are you doing with what Jesus gave you? Are you praying for the people you know who don't know Jesus? Are you looking for ways to share the gospel with them? Are you supporting solid gospel proclaiming ministries with the financial resources you have, starting with your home church? Are you looking for opportunities to invite people to church, to share scripture with them? Are you teaching a Sunday school class or leading a Bible study? Are you looking for ways to serve the poor in your community, to support missions around the world? One day the master will return. And the accounts will be settled. I know none of us wants to be that poor servant who buried his one talent in the ground out of fear. So let's do all that we can with all that we've been given to glorify Jesus and spread his kingdom. Psalm 57. Is it written to the choir master according to Do not destroy? It's a miktum of David. A miktum, by the way, is a teaching psalm, a psalm for instruction. And it was written when he fled from Saul in the cave. Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me. For in you my soul takes refuge. In the shadow of your wings I will take refuge till the storms of destruction pass by. I cry out to God most high, to God who fulfills his purpose for me. He will send from heaven and save me. He will put to shame him who tramples on me. God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness. My soul is in the midst of lions. I lie down amid fiery beasts, like children of man whose teeth are spears and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth. They set a net for my steps. My soul was bowed down. They dug a pit in my way. But they have fallen into it themselves. My heart is steadfast, O God. My heart is steadfast. I will sing and make melody. Awake, my glory. Awake, O harp and lyre. I will awake the dawn. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations, for your steadfast love is great to the heavens. your faithfulness to the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth. Amen. What a great psalm. Let's pray it together. Heavenly Father, we need you to be merciful to us. We need you to be merciful to us and to be our refuge because We have an enemy within us, our own flesh, that stirs up against you and your rule over us, and we live in a world of hostility to your gospel. And there is a real enemy, the devil, who comes, prowling like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. We need you And we thank you that when we need you, you come to our rescue. You save us. You put to shame those who trample on us. You send out your steadfast love and your faithfulness, even in your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior. You are exalted over all the earth. Help us to be joyful and confident when we are tempted to be afraid and hide. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thanks for joining me again as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord. Fully using all that He's given you for His glory. Amen