Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better and also learning how to pray the Psalms, which Jesus did during his life as well. We are in Matthew 15 here in week 8, looking at verses 1 to 20. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God. Be our teacher and our guide as we look to you today. Write your word on our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 15 verses 1 to 20 asking this question: what kind of worship honors God? Then Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said, Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders, for they do not wash their hands when they eat? He answered them, and why do you break the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? For God commanded, honor your father and your mother, and Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die, but you say, if any one tells his father or his mother, what you would have gained from me is given to God, he need not honor his father So, for the sake of your tradition, you have made void the Word of God. You hypocrites, well did Isaiah prophesy of you when he said, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. And he called the people to him and said, Hear and understand. It is not what goes into the mouth that defiles a person, but that which comes out of the mouth that defiles a person. Then the disciples came to him and said, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying? He answered, Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be rooted up Let them alone. They are blind guides, and if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into a pit. But Peter said, Explain the parable to us. And he said, Are you also still without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is expelled? But what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart, and this defiles a person. For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander These are what defile a person, but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile anyone. A religion based on human tradition is almost always concerned about far different things than what actually matter in the eyes of God. Like, did you pray five times a day, facing the right direction and saying just the right words? Or did you eat fish today and avoid all other kinds of meat? Or Did you say the right words before you got into bed at night? Or are you wearing the right kind of necklace or the right kind of clothes? The Pharisees were the kings of meaningless human traditions, but Jesus knew the truth A system of worship shaped by man-made tradition is not spiritual, not helpful, and is even not neutral Or harmless. Because when we follow as doctrines the commandments of men, it always means that the commandments of God are set aside So here's a few principles from today's teachings from Jesus. First, the state of our hearts before God is so much more important than the precise words that we say. Prayer is never just a matter of saying the right words, but it's an offering up of our desires unto God for things agreeable to his will in the name of Christ with confession of our sins and a thankful acknowledgement of his mercies. The definition of prayer from the Westminster Short Catechism, question ninety-eight. If we are lifting up our heart's desire before the Lord, and we're humbly submitting to his will, we're confessing our sin, we're grateful for his grace. That is God honoring prayer. It's about our hearts, sincerity, humility, repentance, and gratitude. Secondly, the power of the tongue is so much more important than the regulations of the diet. Earlier in Matthew 12, 34, Jesus had said, How can you speak good when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. Third principle, the filth in our hearts is so much more deadly than the filth on our hands. Ceremonial hand washing was an important part of the traditions of the Jewish leaders, but Jesus made it clear that the real filth, evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander, they come from our hearts, not on our hands. All of these principles point to one overarching truth. The personal, internal, and spiritual matter so much more than the external, physical, circumstantial, or ceremonial. Now this doesn't mean that nothing we do with our bodies ever matters. That's a false teaching. What it means is that issues of precise wording or diet or posture or ceremony don't change the heart and don't honor God. Very often, they do cause us to be self-deceived, and they can lead to a hypocritical self-righteousness. But God cares about our hearts And only His grace and the power of His Holy Spirit can change our hearts. Psalm 36 is our Psalm to pray for the day. To the choirmaster of David, the servant of the Lord. Transgression speaks to the wicked deep in his heart. There is no fear of God before his eyes, for he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated. The words of his mouth are trouble and deceit. He has ceased to act wisely and do good. He plots trouble while on his bed. He sets himself in a way that is not good. He does not reject evil. Your steadfast love, O Lord, extends to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds. Your righteousness is like the mountains of God. Your judgments are like the great deep. Man and beast you save, O Lord. How precious is your steadfast love, O Lord! The children of mankind take refuge in the shadow of your wings. They feast on the abundance of your house, and you give them drink from the river of your delights. For with you is the fountain of life. In your light do we see light. O continue your steadfast love to those who know you, and your righteousness to the upright of heart. Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me Nor the hand of the wicked drive me away. There the evildoers lie fallen, they are thrust down, unable to rise. Heavenly Father, we see here in Psalm 36 what we also see from the teachings of Jesus in Matthew 15, and that is that evil is a matter of the heart. And it is out of the overflow of the heart that the mouth speaks. It's because transgression speaks to the wicked deep in their heart that the tongue overflows with flattery Self-flattery and the belief that our iniquity cannot be found out because it's hidden and we focus only on external things. But you see the heart, O Lord. You see the heart. And you alone can change our hearts. It's your steadfast love, it's your faithfulness, it's your righteousness, it's your judgments that are so precious, so vital to us. That is the fountain of life that we need. It flows from your character, through your son, by your spirit, to our souls to change us from the inside out. So we ask that you would do that. Help us to stay away from foolish systems that would seek change from the outside in just by external conformity, fooling ourselves into thinking that we have Righteousness is a form of godliness, and it denies the power of God. Change us from the inside out by your Holy Spirit that we might drink deeply of your delights. Find in you the fountain of life, and live for your glory all of our days. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.