Isaiah 26. Isaiah 26, and today we'll be looking at verses 7 through 15. I'm going to go ahead and read verses 1 to 15. And I apologize to Jason for not telling him that ahead of time. But I'm going to read verses 1 to 15. We're going to focus our attention on verses 7 to 15. In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah. We have a strong city. He sets up salvation as walls and bulwarks Open the gates that the righteous nation that keeps faith may enter in. You keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever, for the Lord God is an everlasting rock, for he has humbled the inhabitants of the height, the lofty city. He lays it low, lays it low to the ground, casts it to the dust, the foot tramples it, the feet of the poor, the steps of the needy. The path of the righteous is level You make level the way of the righteous. In the path of your judgments, O Lord, we wait for you. Your name and remembrance are the desire of our soul. My soul yearns for you in the night. My spirit within me earnestly seeks you. For when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness If favor is shown to the wicked, he does not learn righteousness. In the land of uprightness, he deals corruptly, and does not see the majesty of the Lord. O Lord, your hand is lifted up, but they do not see it Let them see your zeal for your people and be ashamed. Let the fire for your adversaries consume them. O Lord, you will ordain peace for us For you have indeed done for us all our works. O Lord our God, other lords besides you have ruled over us. But your name alone we bring to remembrance. They are dead. They will not live. They are shades. They will not arise. To that end you have visited them with destruction and wiped out all remembrance of them, but you have increased the nation. O Lord, you have increased the nation. You are glorified. You have enlarged all the borders of the land. Let's pray. Father, we are your holy city, your people, part of your kingdom. By your grace, not because of anything we are in and of ourselves. Father, speak to us. May this song that Isaiah foretold would be sung in the day of salvation. May it be in our hearts. May it be in our prayers. May it be on our lips. May you be the center and the anchor. and the glory of our lives. Speak to us now, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. What is really your driving passion? What is the indispensable and non-negotiable most important thing in your life I made an offhand comment on a Facebook post yesterday that I think revealed a little more of my heart than I was perhaps intending. Someone had said something about why they don't like October. And I love October. I don't know that fall is my favorite season, but I do hold that it is the tastiest season And so I started listing all the reasons why I liked October. Apple cider donuts and pumpkin donuts. And, you know, all sorts of things, apple crisp, and just so many delicious flavors this time of year. Pumpkin spice. and everything nice comes our way in October. But hopefully That's not the central driving passion of my life, although at times it probably has more importance than it should If you remember the movie City Slickers, you'll remember that Billy Crystal's character needed to find his one thing in life, the one thing that would be the driving force, the motivation, his reason for living, his reason for going on as he's having this midlife crisis. Well, for him it was his family. What's yours? What's your one central driving passion, the thing that keeps you going? How do you know? How would you know? I mean you're in church, so of course the answer is supposed to be God, right? But how do you know what's really there? Well, let me ask you some questions to get us thinking about this. What is it that never gets rescheduled in your life? What is it that if it's on the calendar, everything else has to move around it? What's the first thing you think of in the morning and the last thing you think of at night? What do you give first priority to in your budgeting and your spending? And if I were to ask three or four people who know you best what they think the driving passion in your life is, what would they say? Those are some real questions that we need to ask ourselves So if you have an answer, a real answer, not a make the pastor happy answer, but if you have a real answer to the question of what is the driving passion in your life, the next question should be why Why is that thing the center of your life? Why would you build your time and your budget and your life priorities around this thing, whatever it may be? I'm guessing that for most of us, the answer, the honest answer to that question would be, well, because it makes me happy. Whatever brings us the most satisfaction, whatever brings us the most joy, is the thing that we care most about and invest most heavily in. Here's the main point for this morning from this passage. The Bible tells us that when you boil it down, there are really just two kinds of people in the world. The first are people who live for themselves. They aim to do whatever satisfies themselves. In the words of Marie Condo, who was popular a few years ago, they do whatever will spark joy. You should just spark joy in your life. The second group are people who live for God and for his glory, his renown. In the words of Isaiah 26, 8, your name and remembrance are the desire of our soul. And to get really blunt about it, to use the language of the Bible and specifically the language of Isaiah 26, the Bible calls these two groups the wicked and the righteous. The aim of the wicked is clear, to please themselves, to serve themselves, to advance their name, to enhance their comfort, to do whatever they think will make them happy For many people, doing good makes them happy. And so they are do-gooders. And they enjoy doing good and they enjoy showing how much good they do. It's kind of become a running joke now that like you go to the red kettle salvation army person and you're gonna put money in it and you snap a selfie for Instagram. 'Cause you feel good that you did good. You know, you're gonna go serve in the soup kitchen, make sure you, you know, put it out there on Snapchat or whatever. Um The most common American path for self-satisfaction is some version of the American dream, which we value so highly that we even enshrined the pursuit of happiness. in our Declaration of Independence as one of our God-given inalienable rights. Here's a surprising truth taught repeatedly in the Bible. About people who are living for themselves. God is good to the self-serving wicked every day. He is. Jesus tells his followers to love their enemies in Matthew 5. 43 to 45 he says this you have heard it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I tell you, love your enemies. Pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his son rise on the evil and the good and sends rain on the just and the unjust. God is good. Every day. Even to the wicked. But what does Isaiah 26 tell us happens when the wicked are favored by God? If favor is shown to the wicked, he does not learn righteousness. In the land of uprightness, he deals corruptly and does not see the majesty of the Lord. The defining characteristic, this is something that, listen, if you if you were to take a poll, even of Christians, What is the first defining characteristic of the wicked according to Scripture? Oh, man, they're probably Satanists. Oh, they're probably murderers, right? Oh, they're probably really just evil people who just are criminal and dark and plotting. Turn with me to Romans 1, if you have a Bible still in front of you. And we will see what God says is the first defining characteristic. of the wicked. Romans chapter one, starting in verse eighteen For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made, so they are without excuse. For, although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him. That's the first. Don't honor God as God or give thanks to Him. That's the first defining characteristic of the wicked. The wicked receive good things from God every day. There's no doubt that they know that there is a God who made them, who keeps them alive. and who is actually the source of everything created, and so is responsible for every good thing that they enjoy in their lives. But they don't honor Him as God, and they don't give thanks to Him. And so they become futile in their thinking and their foolish hearts are darkened. In other words, favor is shown to the wicked, but he does not learn righteousness. He doesn't learn. When self-centered and self-serving people live in the midst of believers. Who are honoring God sincerely, they still are blind to God's majesty and goodness, and they deal corruptly. That is, they serve themselves. They even look at church and the people of God as just an opportunity to enrich themselves, make themselves more popular, make themselves more successful, make themselves Happier. So goodness received Never becomes gratitude returned. Opportunities given to see God's goodness are manipulated into opportunities to deal selfishly and immorally. This is the regular pattern of all human beings. It is how we all live by nature. It is the way of the world and it always has been. At the end of the day, people who live like this, our culture has a term for them. They're users. None of us would want to think of ourselves that way, but users are people who see everything else and everyone else in their lives as a way that either makes them happy or doesn't make them happy One of the side effects of this that's seen in our culture is that when our culture began to openly and unapologetically celebrate Selfishness. What happened to the state of marriage in America? The divorce rate skyrocketed. And the number one people, number one reason why people get divorced, well, we're just not in love anymore. Which is a polite way of saying, well, he used to make me happy, but he doesn't make me happy anymore. She used to make my heart go pitter-patter, and my heart doesn't pitter patter anymore, so I'm gonna find somebody who does make my heart pit or patter In other words, I deserve to be happy. We even say that to each other. Like we openly say that in our culture. You deserve to be happy. God says very clearly that He's going to judge the wicked. Verse 11: Let them see your zeal for your people and be ashamed. Let the fire for your adversaries consume them. And verse 14 shows the final destiny of the wicked. They are dead. They will not live. They are shades. They will not arise. To that end you have visited them with destruction and wiped out all remembrance of them. This bothers people because they think, I'm not wicked. Just trying to live my life and mind my own business. Just trying to find something that makes me happy. And what's wrong with that? What's wrong with just wanting to be happy? Well, if you really understand our natural human tendency to make ourselves and our desires the center of our universe. we really do end up dehumanizing people around us. I am guessing that we all do it very quickly in traffic. Who are all these other people and where do they get off driving on my roads? Don't they know I have somewhere to be? Why are they in my way? Right? And just like that, human beings made in the image of God who surround us become obstacles who are blocking our way for making it. And that's a lighthearted example, but it just shows that there's this this part of us is like, eh The truth is really sobering, and that is if you study human nature and you study history, you will find out that if you remove all restraint and all sense of accountability from people, the outcome is horrific Horrific. We look at what's happening in places like Haiti and Sudan and we think uh America. As if what's at the root of all this? Bent It's the original lie. Make God. You can run your own life however you see fit. Go for it. You do you. You only live once. But here's what the Bible tells us. us twice in the book of Proverbs, there is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way to death. Selfishness is wickedness and enslaves us to our destruction. And we can see it in s simple little ways, like if I really ate as many apple cider and pumpkin donuts as I wanted to eat on a daily basis, I would weigh 400 pounds. Right? That's what slavery to your appetites means. But if we just live in a selfish way, we just, I can't love. Why do we find it so hard? Jesus made it so simple. Love God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. Love your neighbor as yourself. And it's just we just like uh why? Because we're selfish. But there is a better way. There is a better way by the grace of God. There is a better way. The path of the righteous is level. You make Level, the way of the righteous. In the path of your judgments, O Lord, we wait for you. Your name and remembrance are the desire of our soul. My soul yearns for you in the night. My spirit within me earnestly seeks you For when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness. O Lord, you will ordain peace for us, for you have indeed done for us all our works. O Lord our God, other lords besides you have ruled over us, but your name alone we bring to remembrance. And then verse 15, but you have increased the nation. You have increased the nation. You are glorified. You have enlarged all the borders of the land. That's the better way. What does God do for the righteous? Remember from last week, what does God do for the righteous? He builds a city for us. A city with walls of salvation and a gate that is open to those who trust in Jesus and a rock. Everlasting, to give shelter and refreshment. And he brings us in and he keeps us. And that city is, of course, Jesus Himself. who we are in Christ, we are his body, and we have been made alive in him. And here in today's passage, verse 7 Get ready. Verse 7 says, the path of the righteous is level. You make level the way of the righteous. So to follow up on the questions we had from last week, here's your question for today. Who is the way for the righteous? I'm sorry, who is the way for the righteous? Right. He said, I am the way, the truth. He's the way to the city, he's the gate into the city, he's the walls of the city, he's it. Alpha and Omega, beginning and end, are all in all all-sufficient one. God leads his people in the way of Jesus, the straight and level way of Christ-likeness. Pilgrim's Progress, I've told you many times, is probably my favorite book outside the Bible I don't get people who don't like Pilgrim's Progress. Maybe you've just never really understood it. But Christian is shown the way to the celestial city. And it's a straight path, which is one of the things, little thing, I understand why they do it, but like every illustrated version of Pilgrim's Progress gets that completely wrong. Because the path that Christian is shown, that is the way to the celestial city, is absolutely straight. Like he it's very clear. This is a straight path. Stay on it. It doesn't deviate to the left or the right. Every illustrated version has the path like winding around and everything. God makes the way of the righteous straight, level. It's not easy, but it's there. And so at times we have to wait for the Lord in his way Isaiah 26 tells us we wait for the Lord in the path of your judgments. Which could mean the path of God's commandments, or it could mean his actions to judge and discipline his people. Either way. It's not easy. We must wait. And that's one thing we really are not good at as Americans. How many of you like waiting? So, God's people respond to God making a level path for us to walk by waiting for Him. I think again of Christian in Pilgrim's Progress, fairly early on in his journey he has to walk up the hill difficulty, which is a steep and demanding way. But that's the way the path goes. And it's exhausting, but God provided for him a way of rest, an arbor halfway up the mountain where he could rest. and be refreshed. God provides refreshment when the way is difficult. After that he had to fight Apollyon in the valley of humiliation, but God provided for him armor. to withstand the blows and a sword, the sword of the spirit, the word of God, to counter Apollyon's attacks. After that he had to walk through the valley of the shadow of death, where he experienced horrors and terrors beyond description. But God gave to him the gift of prayer to call out to the Lord, even in the deep darkness and terrors of the night. God gives us these same things. Tired? Yeah. Guess what God gives you today? It's the Lord's Day. It's a day of rest. It's a day when we're supposed to take the crazy busyness of the week that has us running around like chickens with our heads cut off. So set it aside and rest in the Lord. It's our armor on the hill difficulty. We rest. When Satan attacks us, we remember who we are in Christ. That's probably the essence of the armor from Ephesians 6, we remember who we are in Christ. He's our Savior, He's our righteousness, He's the truth, His gospel prepares us to stand. And then we strike back with the Word of God. We read, we pray, we memorize, we recite God's Word. When we're in despair and despondency, and it's dark and we don't know what's going on, we pray. And we pray and we pray until God brings us out of that valley of the shadow of death. God's given us all these things. And there's a promise and a truth as we go through this in verse 12. Look at verse 12. O Lord, you will ordain peace for us. For you have indeed done for us all our works. Promise you will ordain peace for us. There is peace at the end of the valley. Amen. And the reason we know that is because God has already done for us all of our works. Who's done the work to save us? Who's done the work to save us? Yes. God through Jesus Christ has done every bit of work to save us. Did we do any of it? No. And so the fact that God has already done everything tells us that we can trust his promise for what he will do. And as we walk this path of waiting and anticipating, we are to be seeking Him and desiring Him. What does the second part of verse 8 say? Your name and remembrance are the desire of our soul. Our one thing really should be The name of the Lord. All the ways that God has revealed Himself. This means two things. Okay, so this means two things. First of all, it means that we put our walk with the Lord as the immovable, central, most important thing in our lives. And we quit making excuses, or Joel and I were talking yesterday, and he was talking about how we tell ourselves lies. And then we believe those lies, and then we live on the basis of those lies. Simple lies like, I can't get up early enough in the morning to spend time with the Lord because I work so hard and I'm just so tired and I need my sleep Really? Couldn't go to bed 15, 20 minutes earlier the night before. Really? Couldn't? Does it really work keeping you from that? Can't get up. So as an exercise, to to blow away and realize that's a lie, as an exercise, right? Think of three or four things that if you had to get up early to do them, you would get up early to do them. If you're going somewhere out of town, right? Maybe you have a doctor's appointment that's early in the morning. It's the only one you could get. Right? Maybe you have a work obligation. You have to be into work early. You would get up for all of these things. Right? And so we need to stop believing the lies and we need to make it the truth that actually is the center. And so our our Christian life needs to be the center of who we are. I asked. Who do you think of first in the morning? Or who or what do you think of first thing in the morning, last thing at night? Let the first thing you do in the morning be prayer. Well I I'm barely awake in the morning, Jason. It's it's totally unrealistic. Look, you can ask my family. I am not a morning person I do not bounce out of bed at five o'clock in the morning going, zip-pity-doo-da. You know, I'm just not that guy, right? I am like half asleep. Um Yesterday, yesterday morning, I think it was yesterday morning, I almost poured the water for the coffee in the trash can. That's how half asleep I am. I do the same basic routine things every morning and the coffee grinds go in the trash can, but I'm like I was literally like this with the water or the trash can. Like, what are you doing? Over here. So I'm telling you, I'm not a morning person, alright? But years ago I heard from J. I. Packer, and he said the first thing he did in the morning when he got up in the morning before he even stood up was pray And so I sit on the edge of my bed and I'm look, just to tell I I've hit snooze on my alarm like ten times by this point. I have to set my alarm like half an hour before I need to actually get up. Not a morning person. All right. I sit on the edge of my bed and very short, very simple, pray. Lord, thank you for another day. Thank you that you are my God and that I am your child. Thank you that all of my sins are forgiven in Christ. Christ, thank you that you've given me this day. Help me to live it with you and for you. And that's about it. And then I get up and do. And make the coffee and go read the Bible. But let prayer be the first thing and the last thing at night. Beth and I lay in bed and we pray. Simple, right? So that's one. Your Christian life should be the center. Should be that, right? But then it spills over. And you realize, Lord, thank you, that you created people in your image and you revealed to them the knowledge of how to make donuts. And apple cider donuts and pumpkin donuts. They are a gift from you. To be received in moderation. But with gratitude, right? Thank you, Lord, that someone figured out that the cherry on the cacao bush was like what we need to make coffee and they figured out how to roast it and how to grind it and thank you Lord thank you for my family it we just gratitude becomes because you begin to really see everything as coming from God. And God becomes. My soul yearns for you in the night My spirit within me earnestly seeks you. It's a passionate longing for God Himself and nothing less. Because we realize at the end of the day, anything other than God is something less than God. And so our passion has to be for God first, God alone. And then, and then we read, for when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness. This is reflecting the desire for the spread of God's remembrance, of God's name That his name would be remembered and praised throughout all the earth. For when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness. The wicked don't, but those who are God's people in all the earth, they learn righteousness. Turn with me again if you still have a Bible to Psalm 67. And this is how this can transform the way we pray. Psalm sixty-seven, short, powerful psalm May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face to shine upon us. That's that. God is first. God is most important. God is central. May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face to shine upon us. That your way may be known on earth, your saving power among all nations. Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. The earth has yielded its increase. God, our God shall bless us. God shall bless us. Let all the ends of the earth fear him. This should be what it's all about. If we love God and we are centrally passionately devoted to Him because of how good He's been to us, because He's done everything for our salvation. And our soul yearns for him, and we're waiting for him, and we're trusting him, and we're walking in the way by faith, by grace. We say, Lord, not only do I want to know you more and more, not only does my soul yearn for you, but Lord, show your ways to the nations that everybody on earth may see and may know that you are God. Spread your fame, spread your glory, spread your joy, spread your kingdom to all the earth. Notice the joy that's here. And this is the secret of the difference between the way of selfishness And the way of the righteous made level by God. This is the secret of the difference. In the end, the way of selfishness Pursues happiness and ignores or seeks to marginalize God. And in the end It misses happiness and God. Because people can't make themselves happy. We don't even know what would make us happy. So the way of happiness doesn't make us happy and We miss out on God. But the righteous, the righteous are those who are blessed by God and who respond to that blessing with a passionate, dedicated, focused desire to know God and make Him known They're not seeking the greatness of their own name or the path of their own pleasures. They're seeking the greatness of God's name. They're walking in the way of his commandments, and they find in God The desire of their souls, the source of all joy, the only one who can satisfy and fulfill the yearnings of our hearts and the yearnings of the nations. So setting aside selfish happiness, we aim for God, and we get God and eternal joy. As the end of Psalm 16 says, You make known to me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. In your right hand are pleasures forevermore. There's only one place in the world where there is fullness of joy. And there's only one place in the world where there are eternal pleasures, and that's in the presence of God. The problem with the way of natural man is that we selfishly aim too low at things that will not satisfy us. We settle for a quick and easy happiness instead of an eternal and unfading joy. God gives us good gifts to enjoy in life. We're blessed to be able to enjoy them. We should receive every good gift as a gift from the Lord. But they are gifts from the Lord. And they ought to draw our hearts closer to Him. When we make them ends in and of themselves, thinking that they will in themselves satisfy our souls, we sell ourselves short and we crash because we're not aiming high enough. You don't have to be a pilot with 50 years of experience to know that if you're flying your plane and you mistake the ground for the sky And you aim down, it's not going to end well. And that's what happens when we confuse God's gifts with God Himself. Jonathan Edwards put it this way. God is the highest good of the reasonable creature. The enjoyment of Him is our proper and is the only happiness with which our souls can be satisfied. To go to heaven fully to enjoy God is infinitely better than the most pleasant accommodations here, better than fathers and mothers, husbands, wives, children, or the company of any or all earthly friends. These are but shadows, the enjoyment of God is the substance. These are but scattered beams, God is the sun. These are but streams, God is the fountain. These are but drops, God is the ocean. We need to believe that. And we need to live as if that is the truth. How do we do this? Well, we can start with repenting. of putting God second or third, and of setting aside whatever it is that we keep putting in first above Him. And the second thing we can do is encourage each other. The way of the righteous is not a path to be walked alone. Jonathan Edwards also said: let Christians help one another in going this journey. There are many ways that Christians might greatly help and forward one another in their way to heaven by religious conference, and religious conference, he means spiritual conversation. Let me tell you what the Lord said to me in his word this week. How can I be praying for you? What has God been teaching you by religious conference and otherwise. This is the way to be more successful in traveling and to have the more joyful meeting at their father's house in glory. This is one of the reasons why you should look at our weekly schedule and pick out something that you can come to during the week. Because you come together with God's people and you encourage each other. And it's great. Listen, the world is always trying to convince us that the way of selfishness is the only way to be happy. They have a lot of stuff to sell, and they need us to spend our money on it. That's what's behind it. They're constantly selling us cheap God substitutes. We need to remind each other of the truth and call each other to a higher joy and a deeper dependence on Christ. Together, together we can walk the way, the level way that the Lord has prepared for us. And we can enjoy the anticipation of eternal joy that is found only in the presence of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, There's nothing this world can offer that compares to you because you're the creator of it all. And things created are temporary. And inasmuch as they are good, they are good because they are gifts from you, and you are goodness itself. Inasmuch as they bring us happiness, it's because they're given by you, and you are joy itself. So Father, anchor our hearts that we might be able to say truly, your name and remain Remembrance are the desire of our soul. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.