Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our final day of our seventh week. We're in Matthew 14, verses 22 to 36, and we're asking this question: What do we do when Jesus sends us into the storm? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your love and faithfulness. You are faithful to us every day of our lives. Fair weather days as well as in days of terrifying storms. You are the God who rules and reigns over us. So help us to trust you. Teach us today from this passage we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 14, 22 to 36. Immediately he made the disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side while he dismissed the crowds. And after he had dismissed the crowds, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. When evening came, he was there alone But the boat, by this time, was a long way from the land, beaten by the waves, for the wind was against them, and in the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. But when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were terrified and said, It is a ghost! And they cried out in fear. But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Take heart, it is I, do not be afraid. And Peter answered him, Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water. He said, Come. So Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to Jesus But when he saw the wind, he was afraid. And beginning to sink, he cried out, Lord, save me! Jesus immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying, O you of little faith, Why did you doubt? And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased. And those in the boat worshiped him, saying, Truly you are the Son of God. And when they had crossed over, they came to land at Ganesarat. And when the men of that place recognized him, they sent around to all that region, and brought to him all who were sick, and implored him. that they might only touch the fringe of his garment, and as many as touched it were made well It's impossible to miss the truth of what happens at the opening of today's passage. To the disciples, Jesus deliberately sends them away from himself and into the path of a fierce storm. He sends them into the storm alone while he goes up on a mountain alone to pray. On the surface this makes no sense. The disciples must have been wondering from the start, why is Jesus sending us into the boat by ourselves? Why isn't he coming with us? Where is he going? What is he doing? Once the storm began and intensified and the night dragged on, they must have really questioned, why are we here? Where is Jesus when we really need him? Doesn't he care about us? Did he make a mistake? Have you struggled with some of those same questions, doubts? What do we do when Jesus sends us into a storm by ourselves? What do we do when the pressure and conflicts of life seem too intense to bear and Jesus seems so far away? Well, here's what we can learn from this passage. First, we need to obey Jesus even when his commands don't make sense. Second, we need to wait patiently for Jesus, even when he seems far away, and you wonder when he's going to show up. Third, keep at the task that Jesus has assigned you to do, even when it's hard and you don't seem to be having any success. And fourth, when Jesus comes to the rescue, as he always does in one way or another, have faith and worship him. That's where this story concludes in verse 33. They worshiped him, saying, You are the Son of God. Let's go to Psalm thirty-five. Contend, O Lord, with those who contend with me. Fight against those who fight against me. Take hold of shield and buckler, and rise for my help. Draw the spear and javel it against my pursuers. Say to my soul, I am your salvation Let them be put to shame and dishonor who seek after my life. Let them be turned back and disappointed, who devise evil against me. Let them be like chaff before the wind, with the angel of the Lord driving them away Let their way be dark and slippery, with the angel of the Lord pursuing them, for without cause they hid their net for me Without cause they dug a pit for my life. Let destruction come upon him when he does not know it, and let the net that he has hidden ensnare him. Let him fall into it to his destruction then my soul will rejoice in the Lord, exulting in his salvation. All my bones shall say, O Lord, who is like you? Delivering the poor from him who is too strong for him. the poor and needy from him who robs him. Malicious witnesses rise up. They ask me of things I do not know. They repay me evil for good. My soul is bereft. But I, when they were sick, I wore sackcloth, I afflicted myself with fasting, I prayed with head bowed on my chest, I went about as though I grieved for my friend or my brother. As one who laments his mother, I bowed down in mourning. But at my stumbling they rejoiced and gathered. They gathered together against me wretches whom I did not know tore at me without ceasing. Like profane mockers at a feast, they gnash at me with their teeth. How long, O Lord, will you look on? Rescue me from their destruction, my precious life from the lions. I will thank you in the great congregation, in the mighty throng, I will praise you. Let not those rejoice over me who are wrongfully my foes. and let not those who wink the eye who hate me without cause, for they do not speak peace. But against those who are quiet in the land they devise words of deceit. They open wide their mouths against me. They say, Aha, aha, our eyes have seen it. You have seen, O Lord. Be not silent. O Lord, be not far from me. Awake. and rouse yourself for my vindication, for my cause, my God and my Lord. Vindicate me, O Lord, my God, according to your righteousness, and let them not rejoice over me Let them not say in their hearts, Aha, our hearts desire. Let them not say, We have swallowed him up. Let them be put to shame, and disappointed altogether who rejoice at my calamity. Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me. Let those who delight in my righteousness shout for joy and be glad and say evermore, Great is the Lord. who delights in the welfare of his servant, then my tongue will tell of your righteousness and of your praise all the day long. Psalm 35. You know, I am not selecting psalms that are designed to accompany the gospel passages. We're simply going through the Psalms as we go through the Gospels. But here we have a situation where David is in a storm. He's in a storm that's in the form of people unfairly attacking him, and he feels alone because he asks the Lord, how long are you going to stand far off? But he's also pleading for help and promising that he will praise God when he comes to the rescue. He's trusting that God will come to the rescue and that he will He will have faith and he will worship him and praise him when he comes to the rescue. It's just a perfect psalm to pray when we find ourselves, like the disciples, in a storm and feeling far from Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, in your sovereign will you appoint storms, trials, tribulation, times of testing for your children, because you love us. You discipline those you love. The testing of our faith produces perseverance. You have a purpose in the trials, even when they are very hard. completely unfair and you feel miles away. It's what David was facing in Psalm 35. It's what the disciples were facing in the storm that night on the boat. But you were faithful. And you are faithful to us. Help us to trust you more than our feelings. Help us to cry out to you, to plead with you earnestly, maybe even using the words of Psalm 35. When we are in the depths of our storm of trial and struggle, may we look to you. Rescue us. Our enemy is too strong for us, but he is not too strong for you. And help us to praise you. Every time you come through for us, which you do so often, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again, and I hope this was a blessing to you. Look forward to next week. Have a blessed day in the Lord.