Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Week 22, day four. I'll give you a little bit of a hint. It's not actually morning when I'm recording this. In fact, if you see bright sun shining on this side of my face. That means it's the afternoon when I'm recording. It's the afternoon sun coming in. Anyway, uh had to record some of these before we go away on our church mission trip to West Virginia. So as you receive this, we are in West Virginia serving and would appreciate your prayers for us as we continue to serve. And come back on Saturday, Lord willing. But today we are in Luke 5, verses 17 to 39 and Psalm 109. And in Luke 5, we are asking, what scandalizes you? What scandalizes you? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It is living and active. It is full of Christ from beginning to end. Show us our Savior, that we might love Him and know Him and follow Him better. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. On one of those days, as He was teaching, Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there, who had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem And the power of the Lord was with him to heal. And behold, some men were bringing on a bed a man who was paralyzed. And they were seeking to bring him in and lay him before Jesus, but finding no way to bring him in because of the crowd, they went up on the roof and let him down with his bed through the tiles into the midst of the world. before Jesus. And when he saw their faith, he said, Man, your sins are forgiven you. And the scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying, Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone? When Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answered them, Why do you question in your hearts? Which is easier to say, Your sins are forgiven you, or to say, Rise and walk? But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he said to the man who was paralyzed, I say to you, pick up your bed and go home. And immediately he rose up before them and picked up what he had been lying on and went home, glorifying God. And amazement seized them all And they glorified God and were filled with awe, saying, We have seen extraordinary things today. After this, he went out and saw a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax booth. And he said to him, Follow me. And leaving everything, he rose and followed him. And Levi made him a great feast in his house. And there was a large company of tax collectors and others reclining at table with them, and the Pharisees and their scribes grumbled at his disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? And Jesus answered them Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. And then they said to him, The disciples of John fast often and offer prayers, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink. And Jesus said to them, Can you make wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days. He also told them a parable. No one tears a piece from a new garment and puts it on an old garment. If he does, he will tear the new, and the piece from the new Will not match the old. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does the new wine will burst the wineskins and it will be spilled and the skins will be destroyed. But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins And no one, after drinking old wine, desires new, for he says, the old is good. So what scandalizes you? It's getting hard to shock people these days. We've become hardened, cynical, numb. What does scandalize us tells us much about our worldview, our assumptions about reality. So what scandalizes you? Are you ever shocked by your own sins? Are you ever surprised by how sinful your own thoughts, words, or actions can be? Is that perhaps because you've started to believe that you are better than you really are? In today's reading in Luke, we see the Pharisees scandalized twice by Jesus. First, when Jesus pronounces the paralytic to be forgiven, the Pharisees question Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone? The Pharisees are sure that this paralytic had to be a big sinner, or else God would not have judged him with paralysis This is why Jesus demonstrates his power to forgive by healing. The Pharisees just cannot believe in such forgiveness, in such powerful mercy. And here is a miracle where Jesus is demonstrating that he is God, because only God does have the right to forgive sins, and Jesus has that right. Second, when Jesus goes to the home of Levi and he eats and drinks with the tax collector and his sinful friends, the Pharisees ask, why does he eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? The Pharisees know here that the Messiah would surely be more interested in hanging around with people like them, the respectable religious folk, than around the notoriously sinful. The mercy and grace of Jesus scandalizes the Pharisees. They simply cannot believe that he would dare to pronounce someone forgiven, and then they cannot believe that the Messiah would ever associate with those kind of people As soon as we begin to believe that some people are beyond saving or that we're somehow beyond sinning, we're showing our hearts to be more like Pharisees than like Jesus. Jesus answers the scandalized Pharisees by basically telling them that they are not his priority because they don't see their need for him. He comes as a great physician to heal, but they don't think they're sick. He comes as the savior to save sinners, but they think they're righteous. May we never lose sight of our need for Jesus, that we might always see our need for his healing and his saving grace, and be willing to extend that to others in need. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 109. Psalm 109 is written to the choirmaster, and it is a psalm of David. By the way, I don't know why the ESV website is messing up these psalms. When we get into the triple digits of the Psalms, they seem to be messing up the display of them. There's not much I can do about that. Psalm 109. Be not silent, O God of my praise. For the wicked and deceitful mouths are open against me, speaking against me with lying tongues. They encircle me with words of hate. They attack me without cause. In return for my love, they accuse me. But I give myself to prayer. So they reward me evil for good, and hatred for my love Appoint a wicked man against him. Let an accuser stand at his right hand. When he is tried, let him come forth guilty. Let his prayer be counted a sin. May his days be few. May another take his office, may his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow, may his children wander about and beg, seeking food far from the ruins they inhabit. May the creditor seize all that he has, may strangers plunder the fruits of his toil. Let there be none to extend kindness to him, nor any to pity his fatherless children May his posterity be cut off, may his name be blotted out in the second generation, may the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the Lord, and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. Let them be before the Lord continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth. For he did not remember to show kindness. but pursued the poor and needy and the brokenhearted to put them to death. He loved to curse. Let curses come upon him He did not delight in blessing, may it be far from him. He clothed himself with cursing as his coat May it soak into his body like water, like oil into his bones. May it be like a garment that he wraps around him, like a belt that he puts on every day. May this be the reward of my accusers from the Lord, of those who speak evil against my life. But you O God, my Lord, deal on my behalf for your name's sake. Because your steadfast love is good, deliver me. For I am poor and needy, and my heart is stricken within me. I am gone like a shadow with evening. I am shaken off like a locust My knees are weak through fasting. My body has become gaunt with no fat. I am an object of scorn to my accusers. When they see me, they wag their heads. Help me O Lord my God, save me according to your steadfast love. Let them know that this is your hand. You, O Lord, have done it. Let them curse, but you will bless They arise and are put to shame, but your servant will be glad. May my accusers be clothed with dishonor. May they may f may they be wrapped in their own shame as in a cloak. With my mouth I will give great thanks to the Lord. I will praise him in the midst of the throng, for he stands. at the right hand of the needy one to save him from those who condemn his soul to death. Psalm 109 is an imprecatory Psalm. And precautionary psalms are psalms praying against evil enemies of God's people, praying for the downfall of the evil enemies of God's people. This psalm is specifically quoted in the New Testament as being a prophecy of Judas Iscariot, who is the ultimate evil betrayer who betrayed the innocent Jesus And so I have a prayer based on Psalm 109, and I'm going to go ahead and read this as we're as our prayer together. O Lord our God, we come before you in our distress, for many rise against your people with slander and hatred. speaking lies and words of malice, though we have shown them love and sought peace. In our weakness we remember that our Lord Jesus was betrayed by one of his own disciples. Falsely accused by a wicked man, delivered up to suffer, though he had done no wrong. He bore our shame and took upon himself the death we deserve, the curse we deserve. Fulfilling the words of David, they repay me evil for good and hatred for my love. Father, we acknowledge the reality of enemies in this world Those who hate your truth and oppose your people, we confess our own sins as well. For we have often repaid evil with evil and spoken rashly when wronged. Forgive us, O God, for Christ's sake and cleanse our hearts from bitterness and vengeance. Lord Jesus, you taught us to love our enemies and to pray for those who persecute us. For you loved us even when we were still your enemies. Help us to entrust ourselves to you, the righteous judge who sees and knows all things, and who will repay every deed in perfect justice Strengthen us to stand firm in faith, clothed in the righteousness of Christ, so that when we are slandered, those who revile our good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. May our response to hatred be love. Our response to curses be blessing, that we might reflect the grace and mercy we have received in Christ. We praise you, O God, that though we are poor and needy, you stand at our right hand to save us from those who condemn our souls. You have vindicated us in Christ. who was condemned, so that we might be declared righteous. Let all who see your salvation rejoice, and let your church proclaim that you are the Lord who delivers the needy from the hand of those who hate them. May your name be glorified forever in the victories of your grace. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thanks so much for joining us again as we're walking through the Gospels with Jesus and learning how to pray the Psalms. Hope you can join us again tomorrow as we wrap up week 22, heading into Luke chapter 6. Have a blessed day. In the Lord.