Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels as we are getting to know our Savior better And also learning how to pray the Psalms. Today is our fourth day of our fourth week, and we're in Matthew 8, 18 to 34 and Psalm 19. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are gracious, merciful, just and holy. And you've given us life in your Son, and you've revealed your Son to us in your Word. We pray that you would be with us today, teach us from your word, and we pray that our response to your word and to your son would be a response of true faith and joyful obedience. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. All right, Matthew 8, 18 to 34. Now, when Jesus saw a crowd around him, he gave orders to go to the other side. And the scribe came up and said to him, Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Another of the disciples said to him, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead. And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves But he was asleep. And they went and woke him, saying, Save us, Lord, we are perishing. And he said to them, Why are you afraid, O you of little faith? Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm, and the men marveled, saying, What sort of man is this that even winds and sea obey him? And when he came to the other side, to the country of the Gadderenes, two demon-possessed men met him, coming out of the tombs, so fierce that no one could pass that way. And behold, they cried out, What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time? Now a herd of many pigs was feeding at some distance from them And the demons begged him, if you cast us out, send us away into the herd of pigs. And he said to them, Go So they came out and went into the pigs, and behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the waters. The herdsmen fled, and going into the city they told everything, especially what had happened to the demon-possessed man Men. And behold, all the city came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they begged him to leave their region. Today's reading we see different responses to Jesus from different men. Verses 18 to 22, we see two men who express some desire to follow Jesus. Verses 23 to 27, we see the disciples' response to Jesus' calming of the sea. And finally, in verses 28 to 34, we see the response of a whole city of people to the power of Jesus. These three sets of responses are useful for helping us look at our own response to Christ and the response of those. We may know. So the first response is half hearted commitment. These are the two men who want to follow Jesus but on their own terms First man apparently looking for comfort or status of some sort because Jesus rebukes him by saying, the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. The second man wants to follow Jesus, but only after his father dies and he buries him. Some people are interested in Jesus if he can make their lives better. And others want to follow him only when they're ready, when they've done the things they want to do first. Oh, I'll follow Jesus when I'm older. The second response is one of awe and wonder. The disciples in the boat are at first scared, as they think that Jesus doesn't care about them. After all, he's sleeping in the boat while it's being swamped by a storm Have you ever felt like God was distant or unconcerned while you thought you were perishing? The disciples woke Jesus up and pleaded with him to save them. When he does, they're astonished. And they marvel over who this man in the boat is. I'm not sure what they expected from Jesus, but clearly his response far exceeds their expectations. Maybe they just wanted sympathy. Maybe they wanted him to pray for them and and eventually they would make it safely to land. But instead, they get a display of such awesome divine power that they respond with awe and wonder. The third response though is fearful rejection. The people in the gatherings are see very clearly how powerful Jesus was. They see him deliver two men from powerful demons. They also see him confront their lifestyle with the drowning of the pigs, an unclean animal that no Jewish community should have been keeping. They saw Jesus as a threat, someone they could not control, and they begged him to leave them alone. We still see these three kinds of responses to Jesus today. Some people want nothing to do with Jesus. They don't want to have their lifestyle threatened. They don't want to be in a relationship with someone they can't control. Others may want to follow him, but on their terms or in their timing, still others see Jesus for who he is and are filled with awe as they marvel at his greatness. So what is your response today, really, from the heart? Is it rejection? Is it a half-hearted semi-commitment? Or is it all-struck worship? Well, to help us respond with awestruck worship, let's take a look at Psalm 19. Psalm 19 is written to the choir master. It's a psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of God. And the sky proclaims his handiwork. Day to day pours out speech and night to night reveals knowledge There is no speech, nor are there words whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out through all the earth, their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun, which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber and like a strong man runs its course with joy. Its rising is from one end of the heavens and its circuit to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heat. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and and drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, buy them as your servant warned. In keeping them there is great reward. Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be blameless and innocent of great transgressions. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. Let's pray. Oh Lord, you have put a glimpse of your glory on display in the sky, every sunset, every sunrise, every starry night. Every stormy approach speaks of your power and your majesty. It is inescapable and inexcusable Revelation from you, so that no one could deny that you are real and that you are God. But even more fully, even more clearly, even more powerfully, you reveal yourself in your word Your word opens our eyes. Your word changes our hearts. Your word gives us the fear of you that endures forever. Helps us to worship you with awe and wonder, as the disciples in the boat did. when they saw the living word of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, exercise power over creation. And in your word we see that you are not only the God who creates, but you're the God who rules over creation, and you're the God who gave your son for us. And so, Father, we desire to respond not with half-hearted commitment, not with stiff-arming you and running in the opposite direction, but Father, we desire to respond. with awe and wonder and worship and obedience. May the words of our mouths, may the meditations of our hearts, may they be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, for you are indeed our Rock and our Redeemer. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me tomorrow. We're going to wrap up week four, and uh hope you can join me for that as we go into Matthew chapter nine. Have a blessed day. In the Lord.