Good morning, welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our third day of week one, and we are in Matthew chapter two, verses one to fifteen. And then we're going to be doing a a prayer on the basis of Psalm 3. So I'm glad you're with us. Let's uh let's ask the Lord's help before we look to Matthew 2. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, perfect, living, active, wonderful. We need your word to be written on our hearts, which is the work of your spirit. So please do this today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Matthew 2, verses 1 to 15, the visit of the wise men. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born, king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him, and assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. They told him In Bethlehem of Judea. For so it is written by the prophet, and you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. After listening to the king, they went on their way, and behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. Then opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, Rise, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you For Herod is about to search for the child to destroy him. And he rose and took the child and his mother by night and departed to Egypt and remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet out of Egypt, I have called my son. The beginning of Matthew 2 were introduced to two groups of wise men pagan stargazers from Persia and Jewish experts in Scripture from Jerusalem. On the surface we might expect to know which group would be more faithful to God, more willing to follow his will. But as we find out, the wise men from the East, these pagans, are faithful to worship and obey, while the Jewish scripture experts did nothing but serve the treachery of an evil king. From these two sets of men, we can learn three lessons. First, head knowledge is not as important as a heart that desires to do God's will. The chief priests and scribes knew the scriptures well. They knew where the Messiah was to be born. The wise men did not know the scriptures as well. But their heart's desire was to worship the promised newborn king and to obey the Lord. Second, it's more important to act on what knowledge we have. The wise men had limited knowledge, but they fully acted in obedience with what God had revealed to them. The wise men most likely came from Persia. It's possible that they benefited from the legacy of wisdom handed down from Daniel. Perhaps they even had some of the scriptures of Moses, maybe even perhaps numbers, which includes Balaam's prophecy that a star shall come out of Jacob, a scepter shall rise for Israel. Numbers 24-27. That would explain why they were waiting for a star to rise. But the third thing we see is that we will never know what legacy we leave behind. Daniel certainly left a legacy behind him, maybe one that influenced the wise men of Matthew too, but these wise men certainly left a legacy behind them, as their story's been told now for two thousand years. On the other hand, the religious leaders and scribes also left a legacy, one of sorrow and shame. Within seventy-five years, their beloved Jerusalem would be destroyed, their treasured temple in ruins If we seek to acquire knowledge to serve our own interests, we will hurt ourselves and those who come after us. Faithfulness to the Lord and obedience to his word comes only by his grace working in our hearts and always leaves a blessed legacy for the generations that follow. That's Matthew 2, 1-15. Now let's turn our attention to Psalm 3. This is a Psalm of David when he fled from Absalom, his son. O Lord, how many are my foes! Many are rising against me, many are saying of my soul, There is no salvation for him and God. But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head. I cried aloud to the Lord, and he answered me from his holy hill. I lay down and slept. I woke again, for the Lord sustained me. I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around. Arise, O Lord. Save me, O my God, for you strike all my enemies on the cheek. You break the teeth of the wicked. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing be upon your people. Let's pray. Oh Lord, what a legacy David has left for us in this wonderful prayer. You indeed are the shield around us and the lifter of our heads. And we know that Jesus prayed this prayer and he trusted in you when Herod threatened him from birth. Joseph and Mary trusted in you. They knew that you were their shield. You were the lifter of their head, and they they obeyed you and went to Egypt. The wise men trusted in you and obeyed you. Father, help us to trust and obey. Help us to know that you are the Savior. You're the one who keeps us. You're the one who blesses us. You're the one who leads us. May your people find their confidence day and night in God, our salvation. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for this third day together here on Walking with Jesus and the Gospels. I hope it's been a good start to the journey. Looking forward to more to come. Join me tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.