Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we're getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're in Matthew chapter 12 today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It's living and active. It's the words of eternal life. It's what we need, our daily bread. to bring us to our Savior and bring our Savior to us. So feed us and lead us today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen Matthew 12, 1-14. At that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck heads of grain and to eat. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. He said to them, Have you not read what David did? When he was hungry, and those who were with him, how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the presence, which is not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests. Or have you not read in the law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless? I tell you, something greater than the temple is here. And if you had known what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless, for the Son of Man is Lord, even of the Sabbath. He went on from there and entered their synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand, and they asked him, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him? He said to them, Which of you Who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out. Of how much more value is a man than a sheep? So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath Then he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like the other. But the Pharisee went out. Pharisees went out and conspired against him how to destroy him. When God finished creating the world, he rested. By doing so, he created the Sabbath day on the seventh day When God gave the Ten Commandments to his people on Mount Sinai, he included the fourth commandment, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Jesus never openly announced the repeal of the Sabbath commandment, although the day of the week and the fundamental nature of the day were transformed by his resurrection. They were transformed, but not repealed. Each resurrection appearance of Jesus to his disciples appears to have happened on a Sunday, the first day of the week, the same day as the resurrection itself, from the beginning of the church. The church gathered for worship in the morning on the first day of the week, not the seventh day. And by the time John wrote Revelation, the church was already referring to this first day of the week as the Lord's Day. Look at Revelation 1. 10. The expression is actually the same as the day of the Lord, which is the coming day of Christ's triumphant return. So instead of looking back to the end of the creation week, The Christian Sabbath, the day of the Lord, the Lord's day, is looking ahead to the coming of Jesus and the beginning of the new creation, the new heavens and the new earth when he comes. So given all this background, what are we dealing with here in Matthew chapter 12? Jesus seems to be directly and intentionally confronting the religious leaders about the Sabbath. But why? Well, to put it simply, the religious leaders had taken what was intended to be a blessing and had turned it into a curse. More specifically, Jesus is showing that acts of necessity, like eating and acts of mercy, like healing, are very proper for the Holy Sabbath day of rest. It is good to do good to others. even and especially on the Sabbath, and the necessary things can always be done on whatever day. God's intent in commanding his people to rest was to call them to the blessing of focusing on him and quieting their lives. He never intended to punish merciful acts of kindness or to bind his people. from doing necessary things. Some Christians in history have had a harsh and sort of a killjoy approach to the Sath Sabbath on Sunday They've almost made it sinful to laugh or have fun or enjoy life or celebrate. But that's not in keeping with Jesus' approach Jesus brings freedom, joy, salvation, and healing, and honoring the day should be focused not on boredom and restriction, but on celebration and joy in the Lord On the other hand, frankly, in our day and age, that's not the problem the church has. Most Christians today just see little to no difference between the Lord's Day and any other day of the week. We refuse to give up our busy lives and our worldly priorities, not only to do what is restful and some merciful works and necessary works, but we also just keep running the rat race. God calls us to rest and to worship him on Sundays. We're called to celebrate Jesus' victory over death and we're called to enjoy the rest and the salvation that He has given. That's the call. And answering that call makes Sunday, the Christian Sabbath, a day of blessing and not a burden. Psalm 27. For Psalm 27 today, it's another Psalm like Psalm 25 that you can just pretty much pray straight through to God. So what we're going to do today is instead of reading the whole psalm And then praying it is I'm going to pray as we read. So let's look at Psalm 27 together. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me, to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear, though war arise against me, yet I will be confident. O Lord, there's so much in this world that would seek to make us afraid So many media outlets and and social media personalities and influencers, they they're driven by creating fear What's going to happen, the uncertainty. But we can be confident in you, Lord. You alone, our light, our salvation, the stronghold of our life. We have no reason to fear. One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. O Father, may you and your glory and your wisdom be the one thing that we desire and pursue above everything in this world. For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble, he will conceal me under the cover of his tent, he will lift me high upon a rock, and now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me I will offer in his tent sacrifices and shouts of joy. I will sing and make melody to the Lord. Lord, you're so good to us. In Christ, who has won the victory over sin and death, the new creation has come. And we are partakers of this new creation. One of the ways we can rejoice and celebrate is by setting aside Sunday, the Lord's Day to rest and to worship and to celebrate what Jesus has done so that we can offer sacrifices with shouts of joy. That is the sacrifice of praise, the fruit of lips. Giving thanks to your name and singing together with your people. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me. You have said, Seek my face. My heart says to you, Your face, Lord, do I seek. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger, O you who have been my help. Cast me not off, forsake me not, O God of my salvation, for my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. O Lord, you are indeed our only refuge, the one who answers us when we cry. We need to seek you. We are here seeking you because we need you. We need you to answer us, we need you to save us, we need you to keep us in your grace. Teach me your way, O Lord, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies. Give me not up. to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me, and they breathe out violence. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait for the Lord Be strong and let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. Oh Father, the Lord's Day teaches us to wait for you because as we gather for worship on the first day of the week, we are remembering that Jesus has risen from the dead and is coming again. So help us to wait for you by faithfully worshiping with your people on the Lord's day and setting that day aside to worship, rest, celebrate, and enjoy. The salvation that we have in Jesus. Teach us your ways, O Lord. Lead us in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. Keep us in your will, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again on walking through the Gospels with Jesus. Hope you can join me tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.