Good morning. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. This is Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We we get together five days a week to get to know our Savior better by learning from the gospels and also learning to pray the Psalms, which is what Jesus did in his earthly life. He prayed and sang the psalm. So today we are in Matthew 12. We're looking at verses 15 to 32. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word and thank you for your son. Please bless our time together as we learn. To know our Savior better and to walk with him more faithfully. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 12, 15 to 32. Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there, and many followed him, and he healed them all, and ordered them not to make him known. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved with whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit upon him, and he will proclaim justice to the Gentiles He will not quarrel or cry aloud, nor will any one hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break, and a smouldering wick he will not quench, until he brings justice to victory. and in his name the Gentiles will hope. Then a demon oppressed man, who was blind and mute, was brought to him, and he healed him, so that the man spoke and saw And all the people were amazed and said, Can this be the son of David? But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, It is only by Beelzebel, the prince of demons, that this man casts out demons. Knowing their thoughts, he said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself will stand. Sorry. That's not right. Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and no city or house divided against itself will stand. And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Or how can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strongman? Then he indeed may plunder his house. Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven, people, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven. And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come. Well, the idea that we can commit a sin that could never be forgiven is pretty terrifying, isn't it? In today's passage, Jesus warns us against such a sin, blasphemy against the Spirit, which will not be forgiven. So what is this sin which will not be forgiven either in this age or in the age to come? Well, to understand, it's much more helpful to look at the context. first, before you focus on the verse itself. In the context, what were the Pharisees guilty of doing? They had said, of Jesus, it is only by Beelzebub, the Prince of Demons, that this man casts out demons. Thus they were attributing the work of the Holy Spirit to the devil. But why did they do this? And what did it mean? The reason the Pharisees committed the sin was their hardened unbelief and their refusal to follow Jesus, despite clear evidence that he was the Son of God, the long-awaited Messiah. If someone has a hardened heart of unbelief and will not acknowledge Jesus, despite clear evidence compelling them to do so, they are indeed cut off from the grace of God and without hope. whether it's in this life or in the life to come. Now a person may seem to be in this state for a season and then later repent and trust in Christ. In that case, they never really were in that state. They just seemed to be. So blasphemy of the Holy Spirit is a persistent, hard-hearted unbelief. It's the condition of the person who never repents and never trusts Jesus. Who refuses salvation for their whole lives, and that person indeed has no hope. Anyone who asks if they might have committed this sin and is concerned about possibly having said something or done something that might be this sin is actually showing by their concern that they're not guilty of the unpardonable sin. Because those who are guilty of this, they don't care. They don't question. They don't express concern or regret. So if you trust Jesus and you sincerely desire salvation and forgiveness, you may have it always, freely and fully So you don't have to be up at the night wondering if you've committed the unpardonable sin. Let's go to Psalm 28. Psalm 28 of David, to you, O Lord, I call. My rock, be not deaf to me, lest if you be silent to me I become like those who go down to the pit. Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy when I cry to you for help, when I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary. Do not drag me off with the wicked, with the workers of evil, who speak peace with their neighbors while evil is in their hearts. Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deeds. Give to them according to the work of their hands, render them their due reward, because they do not regard the works of the Lord or the work of his hands. He will tear them down and build them up no more. Blessed be the Lord, for he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy. The Lord is my strength and my shield. In him my heart trusts, and I am helped, my heart exalts. And with my song I give thanks to him. The Lord is the strength of his people. He is the saving refuge of his anointed. O save your people and bless your heritage. Be their shepherd. and carry them forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are indeed our saving refuge. You are indeed the one who is our strength and our shield, the one who hears our voices when we plead to you for mercy. We need you, Lord We need you to have mercy on us and keep us from falling after the ways of the world. The world has its attractions and the world has its attacks. And sometimes we can be drawn by our desire to the attractions of the world. And sometimes we can be afraid in our fear of the attacks of the world. Keep us from these things and preserve us in you. That we might speak the truth in love, that we might follow Jesus wholeheartedly, that we might turn our backs on a world that is in rebellion against you, and that we might joyfully And confidently trust in you for our salvation to the very end. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me once again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope you can join me again tomorrow, and as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.