Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Good to be with you as we begin our 40th week together. We've come to the final part of the final gospel we're going to be in together. John 20 brings us to the resurrection. And today we're looking at the first ten verses of John 20. And we're asking the question, what's the difference between seeing and seeing? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us. Father, we love you and we thank you, and we pray that you would teach us from your word today and help us to see with eyes of faith the truth of the Lord Jesus and his resurrection. We pray this in his name. Amen. Well, remember those seeing eye posters that were really, really popular back in sort of like the early to mid-90s? where it just looked like a meaningless pattern of noise, but you could see through it almost and a picture would emerge. And people would say, whoa, I never knew that was there. I have to confess something, I never ever saw anything other than the mess in the CEI posters because I didn't have that Whatever it took to sort of semi-focus, half-focus, look through it. People kept trying to explain me how to do it. I never could. There's a difference between being able to see and being able to see. Right? If you're a man and you're married, you've probably had that experience of being asked by your wife, Do you see that? And you're looking and wondering, What exactly am I supposed to see? Or if you're a parent of teenagers, you may have had the experience of walking into their room and saying, Do you see this? And they look back at you and say, See what? Right. Well, Peter and John. have an experience of seeing versus seeing in today's passage. So let's read John chapter 20 verses 1 through 10. Now, on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. And stooping to look in, He saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there. And the face cloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloth, but folded up in a place by itself. Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed. For as yet They did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. Then the disciples went back to their homes. Now, when we're dealing with English, we're a little bit limited in our discussion of this passage in the fact that We say seeing and seeing, saw and saw, and we're using the same word, but there's actually two different Greek words there. We we can say you can see and yet not see, or he saw what he didn't really see, and we're just always using the same verb in English, but in Greek if we've got two distinctive verbs here, actually three different verbs that John is using for the verb to see here. So we'll walk through this and try to make it clear. So first, the first time in verse 5, when you see, and stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloth lying there, but it did not go in. That's when John saw the cloth. It's the word bluppo Which is perhaps the most basic word for just plain eyesight, right? Seeing with your eye. The next verse, Peter enters in. And he sees the linen cloths lying there. Verse 6. That's the word thoreo, which is a stronger verb, and it means to look and consider or to view attentively, like he really saw, looked, paid attention Right? Saw the linen cloth lying there. But finally, in verse 8, we see John, he also went in and saw and believed. This saw is the verb hora'o, which can mean to perceive, right? To understand, to see with an understanding, not just to view attentively, but to see with an understanding. For example, this is the verb that Matthew uses in his gospel to describe the wise men seeing the star. It is a seeing with understanding. Thus John saw and believed His seeing was with an understanding that led to faith. In life, so much depends on really being able to see. being able to see through just the surface level, just the external things, and to understand the deeper reality that lies behind it. Ultimately, this is an act of the grace of God. Why did John Hora'o, whereas Peter only Thoreo? Ultimately it's because of the grace of God that opened John's eyes, the eyes of his heart, to be able to see and understand and believe. So, as far as we can tell here, John is the first man to believe in the resurrection. And That's a God-given insight before he sees Jesus face to face. They didn't yet understand the scriptures that he must rise from the dead, but even without understanding the rational explanation for it, John is able to see and believe. May the Lord give us by his grace this same kind of insight. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we need your grace. We need your Holy Spirit to open the eyes of our hearts so that when we see We cannot just observe or pay attention, but we can understand and perceive the truth. The truth is that you are the Lord, your Lord of all. Every circumstance of our lives, every detail, every day is arranged by your hand Help us to see that with eyes of faith, to perceive what you are doing, what you're teaching us, how you're leading us. May we see and follow, may we see and believe. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me as we begin this new week on walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope today's devotional was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me tomorrow as we continue working our way through John 20. Have a blessed day in the Lord