Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you here on our third day of our 28th week. We've been in the Gospels throughout this year learning more about Jesus. And today we're going to be looking at the second half of Luke 18. We're going to meet two men who are a great contrast with each other, and Jesus encounters with them will help us to answer this question. What must we do to be saved? What must we do to be saved Let's pray and ask the Lord for his help as we look to his word today. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and for your faithfulness to teach us every day. We pray that you would speak through me into all of our hearts, including mine, that we would all receive the words that you give, the words of eternal life. that we might see our Savior better and that we might believe and receive the blessing of eternal life in Him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Luke 18, 18 to 43. And the ruler asked him, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments, do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor your father and mother. And he said All these I have kept from my youth. When Jesus heard this, he said to him, One thing you still lack. Sell all that you have, and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come follow me But when he heard these things, he became very sad, for he was extremely rich. Jesus, seeing that he had become sad, said, How difficult it is. For those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God. For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. Those who heard it said, then who can be saved? But he said, what is impossible with man is possible with God And Peter said, See, we have left our homes and followed you. And he said to them, Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house, or wife, or brothers, or parents, or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God. who will not receive many times more in this life and in the age to come eternal life. And taking the twelve, he said to them, See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and everything that is written about the Son of Man by the prophets will be accomplished. For he will be delivered over to the Gentiles, and will be mocked, and shamefully treated, and spit upon, and after flogging him they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise. But they understood none of these things The saying was hidden from them, and they did not grasp what was said. As he drew near to Jericho, a blind man was sitting by the roadside begging And hearing a crowd going by, he inquired what this meant. They told him, Jesus of Nazareth is passing by, and he cried out, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me And those who were in front of him rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me! And Jesus stopped and commanded him to be brought to him. And when he came near, he asked him, What do you want me to do for you? He said, Lord, let me recover my sight And Jesus said, recover your sight. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him, glorifying God. And all the people, when they saw it, gave praise to God. Last week we saw a stark contrast between the rich man and Lazarus when we looked at that famous parable of Jesus. We asked this question. Are you the rich man or are you Lazarus? Over and over again in the Gospels, what we see Jesus doing is confronting cultural norms and natural human expectations and aspirations. Why does he do this? Well, it's because our cultural norms and our natural human standards and desires, they actually keep us from the kingdom of God and from the gift of eternal life. And so today we meet two real people. who are as contrasted from each other as the rich man and Lazarus. We meet first a rich young ruler in verses 18 to 25, and then a blind beggar in verses 35 to 43 Each wanted something from Jesus. The young ruler wanted information, directions for how to achieve eternal life. He asked good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? He thought eternal life was something he could be good enough to deserve. The blind beggar's request was both simpler and more urgent. Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. The rich M ruler was a scrupulously religious and dutifully moral man. He had been concerned about how to live a life of moral purity since his childhood. But He loved his money and was deceived as to the true condition of his heart. The blind beggar made no pretense of moral purity. or of deserving an inheritance of eternal life from God, he simply cried out and would not be silenced. Have mercy on me It's no coincidence that we have Jesus' prediction of his own coming death and resurrection in between these two stories. Jesus, death and resurrection is necessary because religiously moral people, like the rich young ruler, could never be good enough. To inherit eternal life. No one is good but God alone. Jesus' death and resurrection is necessary because God has determined that He will extend mercy to sinners. like the blind beggar, even if it costs him his only son. So what must we do to be saved? We must stop thinking that we can do anything to be saved We must stop believing in our own goodness and start seeing how desperate our need truly is. Only then will we cry for the mercy we need. The free gift of eternal life is not earned, but given It is bought and paid for by the death and resurrection of the Son of God. Will you cry out to him for mercy today? Let's turn our attention now to the Psalms as we prepare our hearts to pray to the Lord. We're looking today at Psalm 134. It's a short one, one of the shortest Psalms in the Bible, just three verses. O bless the Lord, all you servants of the Lord who stand by night in the house of the Lord. Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the Lord. May the Lord bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth. This is a good example of a prayer to go along with today's gospel lesson because sometimes short and simple prayers are ones that God is pleased to hear if they come from a sincere heart. Oh Lord, we bless you and we give you thanks, for you have provided for our salvation in your Son, Jesus Christ. We can lift up holy hands because we are made holy through the sacrifice of Jesus once for all on our behalf. Thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you for his death and resurrection. Thank you that he has made us alive with you forever. I pray that if there's anyone listening to this, watching this, who doesn't know Jesus as their Lord and Savior, who hasn't cried out to you for mercy, and who isn't alive toward you, that your spirit would move them and that they would cry out Jesus, have mercy on me. And I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you can join us again tomorrow, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.