Let's turn our attention now to God's holy word in Isaiah 65. Isaiah 65, the words of life are before us. Isaiah sixty-five, this is the Word of God. I was ready to be sought. by those who did not ask for me. I was ready to be found by those who did not seek me. I said, here I am, here I am, to a nation that was not called by my name. I spread out my hands all the day to a rebellious people who walk in a way that is not good, following their own devices, a people who provoke me to my face continually. sacrificing in gardens and making offerings on bricks, who sit in tombs and spend the night in secret places Who eat pig's flesh, and broth of tainted meat is in their vessels, who say, Keep to yourself, don't come near me, for I am too holy for you. These are a smoke in my nostrils, a fire that burns all the day. Behold, it is written before me, I will not keep silent. But I will repay. I will indeed repay into your lap both your iniquities and your father's iniquities together, says the Lord, because they made offerings on the mountains and insulted me on the hills, I will measure into their lap payment for their former deeds. Thus says the Lord. As the new wine is found in the cluster, and they say, Do not destroy it, for there is a blessing in it. So I will do for my servants' sake and not destroy them all. I will bring forth offspring from Jacob and from Judah, possessors of my mountains. My chosen shall possess it, and my servants shall dwell there. Sharon shall become a pasture for flocks, and the valley of Acor a place for herds to lie down for my people who have sought me But you who forsake the Lord, who forget my holy mountain, who set a table for fortune and fill cups of mixed wine for destiny. I will destine you to the sword. And all of you shall bow down to the slaughter, because when I called you did not answer. When I spoke, you did not listen But you did what was evil in my eyes and chose what I did not delight in. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, my servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry Behold, my servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty. Behold, my servants shall rejoice, but you shall be put to shame. Behold, My servants shall sing for gladness of heart, but you shall cry out for pain of heart, and shall wail for breaking of spirit. You shall leave your name to my chosen for a curse And the Lord God will put you to death, but his servants he will call by another name. So that he who blesses himself in the land shall bless himself by the God of truth, and he who takes an oath in the land shall swear by the God of truth, because the former troubles are forgotten. and hidden from my eyes, for behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. But be glad, and rejoice forever in that which I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. No more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress. No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his days. For the young man shall die a hundred years old, and a sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed They shall build houses and inhabit them. They shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit. They shall not build and another inhabit. They shall not plant and another eat. For like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hand They shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity, for they shall be the offspring of the blessed of the Lord and their descendants with them Before they call, I will answer. While they are yet speaking, I will hear. The wolf and the lamb shall graze together. The lion shall eat straw like the ox, and the dust shall be the serpent's food They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, says the Lord. Amen. Pray. Heavenly Father, this is a powerful, convicting, challenging, and comforting chapter of your holy word. Please prepare us to hear it, to receive it. it, to believe it, and to live in faithful response to it. We pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. If you've been a believer for any amount of time and you've prayed much at all, then you've had the experience of praying for something and not getting the answer you were looking for. In fact, you may have had the experience of praying very passionately, very personally, pleading with the Lord for something that was very near and dear to your heart and you did not get. the answer that you were looking for. This is what we have before us for Isaiah the prophet Remember last week we looked at Isaiah's model prayer. And we said how Isaiah was passionate. He was personally pleading with the Lord for The revival of the people, for their hearts to be turned back to God, for them to walk in God's ways, for God to be merciful to them, for God to spare them as he foresaw in a vision. All of Jerusalem and Judea laying in ruins, the temple of God laying in ruins, and he's pleading with God, even saying, Rend the heavens and come down, because he wants the people He loves the people of Jerusalem and Judea, the people that he's been called to minister to. He wants to see them saved. He wants to see them revived. He wants to see them brought back to the Lord. And he's pleading. And God answers. And God does not give Isaiah the answer that he's looking for. Look at verses 1 to 7 again. Just glance over the language. This is the immediate answer that God gives to Isaiah's passionate plea of 63 and 64. It's not good from Isaiah's perspective, according to what Isaiah wanted or thought he wanted. I've been rediscovering uh some older music that I listened to years ago um and one of my favorite singer songwriters I used to love in the um sort of early 2000s with Sarah Groves and I've been listening to a lot of her music again and uh she's got a great song called What I Thought I Wanted And it's about how we handle disappointment, unanswered prayer. And the chorus says, um I keep wanting you to be fair, but that's not what you said. I want certain answers to these prayers, but that's not what you said. What I thought I wanted is not what I got. And so how can I, she's basically pleading with the Lord, how can I be broken and yet thankful? And yet faithful. And this is really what is here before us in this Isaiah 65. But then as the chapter goes on, we go from the disappointment of Isaiah not getting what he had asked for to the reality that God's actually doing something far greater than Isaiah could have ever imagined That when we don't get what we want, that's a very good thing. Because it means God is giving us something Something better. It might not look better to us in the immediate moment. It might look way worse. But God never gives his children worse than we ask for. But he does sometimes, he does often give us far better than we asked for, and it might not look like it right away. So let's look at just the first couple of verses because the immediate answer here is a little bit confusing. In verses 1 and 2, I was ready to be sought by those who did not ask for me. I was ready to be found by those who did not seek me. I said, here I am, here I am, to a nation that was not called by my name. I spread out my hands all the day to a rebellious people who walk in a way that is not good following their own devices. Is the Lord here talking about two different peoples? Or is he talking about the same people? How do we understand these verses? It's not really obvious on the surface of it. Thankfully, these two verses are quoted for us in the New Testament. And here's one of your big lessons for today. If the Old Testament is quoted in the New Testament, then you go to the New Testament for the understanding of the meaning of that Old Testament passage. There's an old saying that says the new is in the old contained, and the old is by the new explained. The old is in the new, I'm sorry, the new is in the old contained, and the old is by the new explained. What does that mean? Well, Jesus and his gospel Are all over the Old Testament. Hopefully, if you've seen anything from Isaiah, you've seen that, right? Over the past three years, Jesus is all over the Old Testament. But sometimes there are things that are in the Old Testament that are there, but they're not really clear. Like we were looking this morning in Sunday school at Psalm 118 and Psalm 8 and how Jesus, when he did the triumphal entry, And he went to the temple, he there there were quotations from Psalm 118 and from Psalm eight. And really, it's not until Jesus comes onto the scene that we really understand the meaning of those Psalms to the fullest degree because Jesus is the fulfillment. So he explains the things that are contained in the Old Testament. So leaving a marker In Isaiah 65, if you have your Bibles in front of you, turn with me to the end of Romans 10, because this is where Paul quotes both of these verses. Back to back at the end of Romans ten. Look at the last two verses of Romans ten Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those who did not seek me. I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me. But of Israel, he says, all day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. So that means Isaiah sixty-five one is not about Israel. It's about some other group of people. And we got our clue there in verse 1 of Isaiah 65, a part that Paul doesn't quote. I said, here I am, here I am, to a nation that was not called by my name. So whatever else Israel and Judah is, they certainly were the nation called by God's name. But instead, he's showing himself He's ready to be found. He's showing himself. He's saying here I am to people who are not called by his name, but people who have not been seeking him. And then he says, Of Israel, all day long I've held up my hands to a disobedience. obedient and contrary people. Now, in the scope of the context of Romans 9, 10, and 11, you've got on your sermon follow-up guide. You've got additional passages, and I list there Romans 9 through 11. That's a great passage because I think that actually when we get to the end of Romans 10 and the beginning of Romans 11, which we'll look at in a few minutes, Paul has Isaiah 65 right in his mind. And he's really expounding upon this passage. In this context, Paul is wrestling with an unanswered prayer of his own. Very similar to Isaiah's unanswered prayer. The beginning of Romans 9, Paul is wrestling with the fact that the vast majority Of his fellow Jews, his kinsmen according to the flesh, the vast majority of them have rejected Jesus, have not come to salvation. While Paul has been appointed by this time to be the apostle to the Gentiles, and what he's saying is that thousands and thousands of people from all over the Gentile world are coming to Christ. And he's struggling with this. He's happy to be used by the Lord to take the name of Jesus to the nations, but he's struggling with the fact that the vast majority of the Jewish people are not coming to Christ. And this is actually what we have here in Isaiah 65. We have, Isaiah had pleaded in Isaiah 63 and 64, would you please save these people? Would you please save them? Turn their hearts to you? Would you please run to the heavens and come down? We're not fearing you, we're not walking in your ways. We need you to turn our hearts. And God's answer is, I will be found. I will give salvation. I will present myself. I will render the heavens and come down and present myself to the Gentiles. And then the rest of verses 3 to 7, he says, let me just remind you of the spiritual state of these people that you're praying for. And it's pretty stark. Look at verses 3 to 7. They are a people who provoke me to my face continually. sacrificing in gardens, making offerings on bricks. They sit in tombs and spend the night in secret places who eat pigs' flesh and broth of tainted meat is in their vessels. Then get this verse 5, who say, keep to yourself, do not come near me, because I am too holy for you. These are a smoke in my nostrils, a fire that burns all the day. Behold, it is written before me. I will not keep silent, but I will repay. I will indeed repay into their lap both your iniquities and your father's iniquities together, says the Lord, because they've made offerings on the mountains, they've insulted me on the hills, I will measure into their lap pain. Do you know what is even more revolting in the eyes of God than a sinful and rebellious people who literally worship idols? and then come into his temple and with praises to God on their lips. What's more revolting than that is the people who are in that spiritual state and who think that they are holier than thou. And literally the quote is, I am holier than thou. And God says, that is disgusting. That is in fact the most disgusting. saying. People who are called by my name, who have my word, who've been given my worship, who've been told the truth over and over again, and who say, no, I'm going to go out and I'm going to do what I want to do. Eat what I want to eat, sleep where I want to sleep, do what I want to do, and then I'm going to show up and pretend like I I'm holier. So keep your distance from me. I think of the chief priests and the scribes and the Pharisees who, you know, they saw Jesus perform miracles. They heard Jesus say true things that were that were stunning with their wisdom and their insight. They left the crowds marveling, who is this man who speaks with such authority? They saw him heal a man who was born blind. They saw him Heal a man who had been lame and and sitting beside the pool of Siloam for years and years. They saw these unmistakable things. The last miracle they saw was him lay raising up Lazarus from the dead after four days in the tomb. And their response was, we've got to get rid of this guy. We've got to kill this guy. How do we get rid of him? And they're conspiring together, and they're paying off Judas with 30 pieces of silver, and they're arranging this mock trial in the middle of the night with false witnesses and they and then they show up at Pontius Pilate's house on the day of preparation, the day before the Sabbath. And they're like, oh no, we can't come into your house, Pilate, because that would make us defiled. We need you to come out here so you can get rid of this miracle-working son of God That we've been waiting for for thousands of years. Take care of him for us, please. But don't make us come into your place because we're too holy. That's the kind of thing. And so God says to Isaiah, I'm going to judge these people. They're going to go into Babylonian captivity. And then ultimately within a generation of their Turning Jesus over to be crucified, God takes away the temple and takes away the holy city permanently But it's not all bad news. God has a promise that He's going to preserve. If we read on from verse 7, look at verse 8. God says, but, here's some good news. As the new wine is found in the cluster, and they say, do not destroy, for there's a blessing in it, So I will do for my servant's sake and not destroy them all. I will bring forth offspring from Jacob and from Judah, possessors of my mountain. So the very first thing God says, right after this, telling Isaiah exactly what Isaiah did not want to hear, God says, but wait a minute I'm not going to destroy them all. I'm going to preserve a remnant. And if we go back to Romans, so keep in Isaiah 65, go back to Romans. This is why I think Paul has this passage from Isaiah 65 in his mind as he's writing this section of Romans. He's wrestling with this issue, and he knows that Isaiah wrestled with this issue before him, and so he's looking to Scripture. For his guidance and then under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he's giving us. Because right after he quotes At the end of 10, but of Israel he says, all day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. He then says, chapter 11, I ask then, has God rejected his people? Sure looks like it, but he says, by no means. Has God rejected his people? By no means. And he goes on to explain it. For I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew What does he say in Isaiah 65? My chosen shall possess it. His people, whom he foreknew, are his chosen, the chosen remnant. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Do you not know what the scripture says of Elijah, how he appeals to God against Israel? Lord, they've killed the prophets. They've demolished your altars. I alone am left, and they seek my life. But what is God's reply to him? I have kept for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to the Baal, so too at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. But if it is by grace It is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace would no longer be grace. What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened. As it is written, God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see, and ears that would not hear, down to this very Day. So the first answer is there's good news. God is going to give his people the justice that they deserve for their disgusting, hypocritical, self-righteous rebellion. But he's not going to punish everyone. He's going to keep a remnant. And that may not have been the full answer that Isaiah wanted But he's still being gracious. He's still being merciful. He's still treating his people better. than they deserve. And that's a place for us to start. So for us to start when we're praying for something and we don't get the answer we want. is to stop and say, I may not be getting the answer that I want, but God is still being gracious to me. God is still treating me better than my sins deserve. God is still showing me his favor every day of my life with literally every breath I get to inhale. He is being good to me. And then he goes on in Isaiah 65, 11 to 17. That's the end of Romans, by the way. You can remove that place marker. He goes on to explain how he can he can preserve his own people and bless them. He says, those who forsake the Lord, who forget my holy mountain, who set a fortune for A table for fortune, you fill cups of mixed wine for destiny, I will destine you for the sword and for slaughter, right? But Then in verse 13, behold my servants shall eat. But you shall be hungry Behold, my servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty. Behold, my servants shall rejoice, but you shall be put to shame. Behold, my servants shall sing for gladness of heart, but you shall cry out for pain of heart, and shall wail for breaking of spirit. to my chosen for a curse, and the Lord God will put you to death, but his servants he will call by another name. I think that's another hint. that the the the kingdom is is shifting to include Gentiles who are no longer called we're we don't call ourselves Jewish people or the people of Israel. We're Christians. We're called by the name of Christ who's The fulfillment of God's covenant promises. So God takes care of his own. He says, I'm going to take care of. I'm going to feed. I'm going to Give water, I'm gonna give joy. But the rebellious, you're gonna be cursed, you're gonna be hungry, you're gonna be thirsty. We get a little picture of this in one of the stories that Jesus told, a story of Lazarus and the rich man. What happened to Lazarus when he died? He was welcomed into Abraham's bosom. He was welcomed into rest. And then what happens to the rich man? He's in the place of torment. And what does the rich man ask Lazarus to do? He says, won't you ask He he asks Abraham, the rich man asks Abraham, saying, Won't you ask Lazarus to please come and dip his finger into some water and put it on the tip of my tongue? so that might cool. Lazarus is getting cool and refreshing water to drink, but the rich man is thirsty and he desperately wants it. And Abraham says, there's such a gulf between you and me, it's never going to be bridged. And that's the reality. But God is taking care. In this world, you know, you can look at verses 13 and 14, you can say, Lord, in this world, we don't see that a lot. We don't see God's people eating, drinking, rejoicing, singing for joy. Well, the enemies of God's people are starving and thirsty and sad and ashamed. So we might say, well when's this going to happen? going to come about? When will we see this reality? And that's when we get to the new heavens and the new earth. Because ultimately the answer for the prayer that Isaiah has prayed is going to come Come when God brings the new heavens and the new earth. And that's true of all of us. What we're praying for, what we're longing for, God is answering maybe in different ways than we expected, maybe in different ways than we anticipated. But he is answering, and he is answering from grace, and he is answering even in a way that is greater than we could expect. Let's just think for a moment What did Isaiah want? Isaiah wanted his generation of Jewish people, the people living in Jerusalem and Judea during his days. He wanted them to come to repentance and to faith and to know the Lord. If that happens, we don't get the Babylonian exile. If we don't get the Babylonian exile, we don't get the diaspora of the Jews throughout Babylon's empire. Which means we don't have a network of synagogues throughout the Roman Empire where the gospel can then be taken to the nations. And what does God do? He doesn't give Isaiah what he wanted in the short term. Instead, what he does is unfold a plan whereby he will send his son to be the redeemer, not just of some thousands of people living in a very small piece of land, but countless multitude that no one can number. from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, and it is set up and it is made possible by the non-answer, seemingly, that Isaiah gets By the Jewish people rejecting their Messiah, which they shouldn't have done, right? It was wrong. They shouldn't have done that. But by the Jewish people rejecting their Messiah and turning him over to the Romans and having him crucified, what happens Well, just all the promises of God are fulfilled, all of our sins are taken away and paid for, and then in his resurrection we get a living and reigning Savior who is King of kings and Lord of Lords. For every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. You see, Isaiah wanted this little thing right here. And God said, I'm doing something so big. That you can't possibly wrap your little head around it. Trust me, I'm not going to give you what you're asking for because I have something better. I have something better. For behold, I create a new heavens. and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come to mind. Something new, something different, something radical. But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy. And her people to be a gladness. I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. No more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress. No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his days. For the young man shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed They shall build houses and inhabit them, they shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit, they shall not build and another inhabit, they shall not plant and another eat. For like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands. They shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity, for they shall be the offspring of the blessed of the Lord and their descendants with them. Before they call, I will answer. While they are yet speaking, I will hear. The wolf and the lamb shall graze together, the lion shall eat straw like the ox, and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, says the Lord. God's doing something far greater. And his doing of that something far greater involves not giving Isaiah what he wants in the moment. You know, parents all understand this with our kids. How many times do our kids want something in the moment? But we know that if we gave them that something in the moment. It would keep them from being able to have something better later. None of my kids, when they were little, enjoyed taking their uh cough syrup or their cold medicine. They they thought it was disgusting and they didn't like it. And but if they don't do it, they're just going to keep being miserable. Well, it just keep being miserable, so you've got to take your medicine, right? Many, many days my kids don't want to go to school. They don't really love school on many, many days. And if I were to tell them, that's all right We're just gonna forget school, just go play, just enjoy your video games, just have the day off. over and over and over again. They might be like, wow, this is awesome. I'm getting exactly what I always wanted. And then they would go into adult life with a third grade education. Like they wouldn't have what they need for the rest of their lives. And for them to have what they need for the rest of their lives, it is, yeah, you gotta get up early in the morning, and yeah, you gotta go to school, and yeah, you gotta do your homework. Right? You have to do those things. We understand that as parents, God and the gap between God's understanding and ours is not like the gap between our understanding and our children's understanding. it's much more like the gap between our understanding and the understanding of our fruit fly. Okay? He understands so much more than we do and we're really just like spiritual three-year-olds sometimes are like, but I want, but I want, but I want. And yes it hurts. And I get it, some unanswered prayers are really, really hard to live with. But God is safe. I'm always being good to you. I'm always treating you better than your sins deserve. And I am doing something greater than you understand. You know, the the little tiny picture of one of these little things, right? We were all praying for Dave Shaber to Get better and the Lord saw fit to bring him home. But then we had a funeral service. And the gospel was preached, and someone was looking for a church home and found out where they could hear the gospel preached, and now she's with us. Sunday by Sunday and get becoming a part of this church because Dave went home to be with the Lord. And I was sharing um with the Saturday night small group The story of George Mueller, who was a great man of prayer, who had the orphanage in Bristol, England, in the Victorian times, and he never asked for money George Miller prayed, prayed for the Lord to provide, never asked for money, but he was a powerful man of prayer. And he prayed for years for three friends of his who were not believing. He prayed for their salvation every day. And God has shown him so many amazing answers to prayer, but God never showed him the answer to that prayer. When he died, all three of his friends remained unbelievers. But within a few years after his death, all three of them came to know the Lord. One guy was in his late 70s and the other two guys were in their 80s. And we were talking about this last night, but it may very well have been George Mueller's funeral That spurred them to consider. Like, we know where he's going. He has the Lord. Where am I going when I die? And to think about that. And God Answered the prayer, but in a way that was different from what George Mueller expected. So God answers his prayer, and here he answers the prayer by this new heavens and this new earth. Now, we're not going to talk A whole lot about the new heavens and the new earth today. Because as I was preparing for this week and next week, I decided that I need to call an audible. on my sermon plan. So I'm going to let you know what we're going to do and what direction we're going to go in before I say a few things about the new heavens and the new earth and and wrap up today. But this was supposed to be the next to last sermon in Isaiah. I was supposed to do 66 next week But if you look at 65 and 66, this is one of the patterns we've seen with Isaiah. He sort of goes one direction, then comes back the other, and goes one direction, comes back to the other. So at the end of 65, verses 17 to 25 of 65, he's talking about the new heavens and the new earth And then he comes back in 66 and talks about his people and the need to be humble and contrite in spirit and the need to be And then at the end of 66 he comes back to the future judgment, the glory of the Lord, and again in verse 22 of 65, talking about the new heavens. and the new earth. So what we're going to do is next week we're going to look at 66, but then we're going to have a bonus sermon, which is really going to be focused on The f the end. The new heavens and the new earth, the coming of the Lord, the day of judgment, and it's going to be drawn from the end of 65 and the end of 66. So if you have a lot of questions about the new heavens and the new earth, you're like, I thought I was going to get my questions answered Two more weeks. So it's just a lot to try to cover. Or we could say till two o'clock in the afternoon. I could try to cover it all. So that'll work out well because um that's the last Sunday before we leave for for Uganda. So we've got two more uh two more Sermons. I will say, in closing, that it's very clear if we follow our principle that I laid out before. If something is not super clear in the Old Testament, Look to the New Testament, especially if it's quoted in the New Testament, and let the New Testament be your guide. You may have just when I read through this passage again on The new heavens and the new earth. You may have been struck by something that seems kind of odd. It doesn't seem to line up. This is the new heavens and the new earth that God has created, and the former things are remembered no more. And yet later he's talking about a young man's going to die at a hundred years old? What? I thought nobody was going to die in the new heavens and the new earth. Well, so this has caused some debate and dispute, and some people have said, well, this is really a picture of the millennium. In the future, there's going to be a millennium. This is both premillennial people and post-millennial people have this view. In the future, there's going to be this golden age, this millennium, and this is a picture of that time. It's a picture of the millennium. Except It explicitly says it's a picture of the new heavens and the new earth and not the millennium. And so you'd have to say, how does the New Testament, quote, This passage. And there are exactly two places in the New Testament where new heaven and new earth are referenced from this passage. And that is in 2 Peter 3. And in Revelation 21. And in 2 Peter 3, Peter says, since all these things are thus to be dissolved, What sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of the Lord, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved. And the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn, but according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. And so I'd ask this question What promise does Peter have in mind when he says, according to his promise, we are waiting for the new heavens and the new earth? Well, it's Isaiah 65. This is the promise And it's very clear it's the new heavens and the new earth that comes after the day of the Lord, after this creation is done. And the other place is Revelation 21, which we read at the beginning. Of the worship services, our call to worship. I saw a new heaven and a new earth, and the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And in this new place, the dwelling place of God is with man, he will be with them. Be his people. God will be with them as their God. He'll wipe every tear from their eyes. Death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore. He says, write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. So so why have this reference of people dying at a hundred years old? It's imagery, the the paint the picture that's being painted here. Here is of an ideal world, of the world as it should be. You may or may not have noticed, but we live in a world where everything is not as it should be. Have you picked up on that? And so there's all sorts of ways in which life in this world just isn't it It's not right. It's like, wait a minute, what why this and why that? And some of those things, and why babies die young, why children die of ch preventable childhood illnesses that are preventable now that they didn't need used to be. Um why why is it that that wicked people get away with it? Why is it that one uh group of people can plant crops and and take care of their field and these other people just come in and take it all and and leave? And so really the picture that's being painted is in the new heavens and the new earth, life is going to be the way that we always knew it was supposed to be, but it's not in this world. And so God's using accommodating language. to to explain that this is going to be an ideal world. And we'll talk more about that in two weeks' time when we come back to this idea of the new heavens and the new earth. But for us today We live in a world where things are not always what they should be. And we do not always get what we pray for in the way that we're praying for it. And I think from Isaiah 65 we can see a couple of things. One is sometimes our prayers are too small. And God is doing something bigger. And the pain and the loss and the heartache and the delay is all part of the process of of the something greater that he's doing, but also in the new heavens and the new earth we have the promise that whatever is broken in this world. Whatever is sad in this world, whatever is hard and not right in this world will be made right. Everything sad will come untrue, as the Lord of the Rings says. Which Tolkien gets that from Scripture. It all the all the bad stuff, all the dying, all the death, all the cancer, all the strokes All the mental illness, all the depression, all the anxiety, all the family conflict, all the injustice, all the times we watch the news and we just say, Because if we said actual words, the actual words that came out would not be good. Right? All of that is going to come untrue. God is going to bring about a new creation that is better than we could have ever imagined, where there will be nothing That ever goes wrong ever again. So trust and wait, because God is doing something bigger. than we imagined. And a world is coming that is better than our best and wildest dreams. And we'll talk more about that world in two weeks. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for giving us life in your Son. The people of Jesus' day wanted him to be a general who would lead an army in battle to overthrow the Romans. But you had something far better planned. That he would be the The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, but he would lay down his life that we might live. When we are disappointed. When our hearts are broken, may we look to you and give thanks because you are always treating us better than our sins deserve. You are always being gracious to us every day Every day of our lives, every breath is a gift we don't deserve. And may we patiently wait to see what you are doing. It may not be revealed to us until Jesus comes again. And all things are made new. But you know what you're doing. And we can and we must trust you through it all. We pray that we would. In Jesus' name, amen