Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels Where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. This is week 13. It's day four. This is our next to last day in the Gospel of Matthew, 14 weeks. uh 13 weeks sorry in the Gospel of Matthew. Next week we start Mark, but today and tomorrow we're going to be in Matthew 28, which was our Resurrection Day sermon text. for this year. Great, powerful chapter in God's Word. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to Him today. Father, please be our teacher. And write Matthew 28, 1 to 10 on our hearts that we might believe in the resurrection of Jesus And be filled with joy and holy fear. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So our question for today is, when is fear mixed with great joy? When is fear mixed with great joy? Matthew 28, 1 to 10. Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow, and for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you to Galilee, that you may see him. See, I have told you. So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. And behold, Jesus met them and said, Greetings. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid, go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. Have you ever been so stunned? by something so amazing that you were trembling with fear and with great joy at the same time. I think the closest I've come sometimes has been on the tops of mountains. or in some very intense thunderstorms, or maybe as a kid when I was going top speed on a sled down the hill in the snow. When I was younger I used to love watching thunderstorms roll in. I used to Just be in awe of the rumbling of the thunder, the darkening of the sky, would just fill my soul with this overwhelming sense of awe and and fear, but a holy fear. In T. S. Eliot's long poem, The Wasteland, Marie remembers being fearful and free. And when we were children staying at the Archdukes, my cousin He took me out on a sled, and I was frightened. He said, Marie, Marie, hold on tight, and down we went, in the mountains, there you feel free. I imagine that when Mary and Mary Magdalene ran away from the tomb on that great resurrection morning, they could have said to each other, Mary, hold on tight. Because in the power and glory of the resurrection, everything had changed. They were filled with fear and great joy. When God acts in definitive ways, we are afraid as we consider how small and powerless we are. The great acts of God are so beyond us that they make us tremble. Thankfully, God's great acts are acts of redemption for his children, and so they also fill us with great joy. Sadly, something has happened to me. As I've gotten older, I no longer feel the same joyful exhilaration at the coming of a thunderstorm. Sometimes I hike to the top of a mountain and I fail to be awestruck by the beauty of my father's world, even worse Sometimes the reality of the resurrection of Jesus doesn't move my heart with fear and great joy. And I think that's something that I need to pray about. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, soften my heart by the power of your Holy Spirit, that I might be filled with joy and holy fear. at the good news of the resurrection, that death has been defeated, that my Savior lives forever. I ask this in his name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 65. Psalm 65 is written to the choir master at the Psalm of David, a song. Praise is due to you, O God, in Zion, and to you shall vows be performed. O you who hear prayer, to you all flesh shall come. When iniquities prevail against me, you atone for our transgressions. Blessed is the one you choose and bring near to dwell in your courts. We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house, the holiness of your temple, by awesome deeds. You answer us with righteousness, O God of our salvation, the hope of all the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas. The one who by his strength established the mountains, being girded with might, who stills the roaring of the seas, the roaring of the waves, the tumult of the peoples. So that those who dwell at the ends of the earth are in awe of your signs. You make the going out of the morning and the evening to shout for joy. You visit the earth and water it. You greatly enrich it. The river of God is full of water. You provide their grain, for so you have prepared it You water its furrows abundantly, settling its ridges, softening it with showers, blessing its growth. You crown the year with your bounty Your wagon tracks overflow with abundance. The pastures of the wilderness overflow. The hills gird themselves with joy. The meadows clothe themselves with flocks, the valleys deck themselves with grain, they shout and sing together For joy. Well, what a fitting psalm. I love how many times we've been going through the Gospels, and we're really just going through the Psalms sequentially. And but this psalm is so great to accompany this passage because it's filled with awe and wonder and trembling and power and then with joy, with great joy. It's the power of God seen in creation, but it's also the awesome deeds of the God of our salvation. There's no more awesome deed than the resurrection of Jesus. Christ from the dead. It fills us with awe and wonder, with trembling, and with joy. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, this creation speaks. It speaks of your power, of your might. The roar of the ocean, the fury of the hurricane and the tornado, the beauty of the flowers that clothe the meadows in spring and summer. The gentleness of a mother hen with her chicks. You are the God of all creation. But even more, you've revealed yourself in your son Jesus, who is the full revelation of God in human form. And in him we see one who had the power to calm the storm, to raise the dead, to give sight to the blind, to feed the multitudes, and then to conquer sin and death and hell forever for us. Let our hearts be filled with great fear and great joy at the thought of our Savior, the King of Kings, Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope you can join me again tomorrow. And as always, I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.