Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better together. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I'm glad you're with us. It's our fourth day of our first week. We're in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 2, verses 16 to 23, one of the saddest accounts in the Gospels of the slaughter of the innocent babies in Bethlehem. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. All parts of your word. Some parts of your word are hard for us to even read because of the cruel injustice. of sinful human beings. But please write this word in our hearts and help us to follow you, to love you, to trust you, to worship you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Matthew chapter 2, verses 16 to 23. Then Herod, when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men, became furious. And he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem and in all that region who were two years old or under, according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men. Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, a voice was heard in Ramah, weeping and loud lamentation. Rachel, weeping for her children, she refused to be comforted because they are no more. But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Rise Take the child and his mother and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the child's life are dead. And he rose and took the child and his mother and went to the land of Israel But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in the place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there, and being warned in a dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee. And he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, so that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, that he would be called a Nazarene. Well, King Herod was nothing, if not paranoid. He had three of his sons and one of his wives executed for fear that they were conspiring against him. He was a man who desperately wanted to maintain his empire, his rule, and to be able to decide for himself who would receive what after he died. His desire for security and control caused him to panic when wise men showed up from the east wanting to see the newborn King of the Jews. Wasn't one of Herod's kids, wasn't born in his household. When Herod found out later that the wise men had outsmarted him, he was furious. He ordered the death of all the male babies in Bethlehem and the surrounding smaller villages. He didn't know which one of them was the Messiah, so he killed them all. Without a doubt, Herod was evil But often, extremely evil men reveal in their actions the hidden desires of all of our hearts. It is evil to decide that innocent human beings must die so that you can keep security and control over your life. Herod killed a small handful of boys. There weren't that many young boys under the age of two in Bethlehem, which wasn't that big of a village. Yet today, millions of people all around the world make the decision to kill innocent human beings to protect their security and control their lives. Governments all around the world fight to keep the right to kill innocent babies, legal, accessible, and inexpensive. Since 1980, over one and a half billion innocent babies have been poisoned, torn apart in their mother's womb. Around the world. Over 65 million here in America since Roe v. Wade. Why do so many innocent babies have to die? It is to protect the security and control of those who have decided to have them killed. The baby Jesus was no threat to Herod. Jesus did not want Herod's throne. Babies in the womb are almost always no threat to their mothers either Children are a blessing from God and they enrich the lives of their parents even when they're born in unwanted circumstances I recently read a statistic that in America, 60% of unwanted pregnancies are terminated by abortion. But no baby is unwanted by God, or unplanned in God's providence. So really all these moms are refusing to accept God's plan for them. Pray for an end to abortion. Pray that all mothers will see their babies as a blessing, not a burden and a curse. Pray for justice and for human rights for the unborn. Pray for repentance, forgiveness, and healing for the women who have chosen abortion. The cross of Jesus Christ is sufficient to pay for all the sins of those who repent and believe, including the sin of abortion. Well, we're going to go now to Psalm 4, and in light of this passage, we're going to do something a little different with Psalm 4, and that is we're going to use it as an opportunity to pray against Abortion. I'm going to read portions of Psalm 4 and then pray in response to them. Answer me when I call O God of my righteousness, O Lord, hear our prayer for the unborn children who bear your image. Deliver them from the threat of death. You have given me relief. When I was in distress, be gracious to me and hear my prayer. Father, you have saved me from death and hell. You have brought me Life and forgiveness. Be gracious to the unborn and protect them. Be gracious to mothers who are in fear and in panic. Deliver them from the grip of fear in their lives. O man, how long shall my honor be turned to shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? Lord, this world is full of people who defend abortion and who think that killing an unborn child is a matter of choice or women's health care. Father, people seek after these lies because they want to be able to control their own lives and secure their own futures, which is also a lie. And so they attack the unborn. Cast down their lies, O Lord. Expose the deception of Satan for what it is. But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. The Lord hears when I call to him. Lord, I trust you, we trust you, to protect and deliver your own. We trust that you are powerful and wise and good even in the face of such widespread evil. Be angry and do not sin. Ponder in your own hearts on your beds and be silent. Lord, we confess to you that abortion makes us angry, as it should. But keep us from sinning in our anger, keep us from judging others, condemning others. saying harsh and hateful things, being prideful or self-righteous. Keep your people mindful of the evil of abortion, and let us be angry about this great injustice without sinning. Offer right sacrifices and put your trust in the Lord. Lord, your Son is the right sacrifice to cover our sins, all of our sins, including the sin of abortion. And our lives are to be a living sacrifice of thankfulness, worship, and obedience to you. Let us trust in you and live for you always There are many who say who will show us some good. Lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord. You have put more joy into my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound. Father, despite all of the overwhelming evil of abortion, you are still good and we are still so blessed. You show us your goodness in a thousand different ways every day, and we have so much to be thankful for. So many great reasons to rejoice in you. You do protect many unborn children, and you do move the hearts of many women to choose life for their children. And you bless us with life and family and forgiveness and peace every day. In peace I will both lie down and sleep. For you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. Lord, at the end of each day When we rest our heads on our beds and are able to sleep, it is a gift from you and we are in your hands. We're kept by you and we thank you. Hear our prayer for the safety and the rest for the unborn. May they be protected by you. In Jesus' precious and holy name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for this little bit different devotional as we reflect on some heavy things. But God is still good and we can still trust Him in everything. Join me again tomorrow and have a blessed day. In the Lord.