Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We are beginning Matthew chapter 11 today, and we're looking at the first 19 verses. We're asking this question. What do we do when God fails to meet our expectations? What do we do when God fails to meet our expectations? Might seem like a strange question. But the reality is, if we're honest, that happens a lot. So what do we do? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, help us to hear your word today. Speak to us by your Spirit that we might know and love and follow Jesus. We pray this in his name. Amen. Matthew 11. When Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities. Now, when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Christ, he sent word by his disciples and said to him, Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? And Jesus answered them, Go and tell John what you hear and see. The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk. Lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. And blessed is the one who is not offended by me. As they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John. What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in king's houses. What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. This is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. Truly I say to you, among those born of women, there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist yet. The one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and the violent take it by force, for all the prophets and the law prophesied until John, and if you are willing it to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come. He who has ears, let him hear. But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates. We played the flute for you, and you did not dance. We sang a dirge for you, and you did not mourn. For John came, neither eating nor drinking, and they say he has a demon. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, look at him, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds. That's Matthew 11, 1 to 19. So John the Baptist was sitting in prison where he would soon be beheaded. He had baptized Jesus and publicly proclaimed him to be the Messiah. Now He sent his disciples to ask Jesus, Are you the one who was to come, or shall we look for another? Now it's unclear whether John was really doubting or whether he was just sending his disciples to Jesus so that they would follow him. What is clear is that most people's expectations of the Messiah's kingdom did not include leading prophets of their exile sitting in prison and then being executed. What do we do when we are deeply disappointed, when God doesn't meet our expectations? The people of Israel were confused by both John the Baptist and Jesus. John seemed way too extreme for them, living out in the desert, eating locusts and wild honey, preaching and demanding real repentance. Why couldn't he be more normal? more mainstream. Jesus came along and he ate and drank with tax collectors and sinners. This was way too far in the other direction. What kind of a holy man acts like a glutton and a drunkard, feasting, turning water into wine, hanging out with all the wrong people? We all have our own sets of expectations. We all have standards that we expect God to meet. Because we're not God. That means we all face the reality of disappointment. God, God doesn't rule with the goal of meeting our expectations Which is a good thing because our expectations are almost always too small, too shallow, too narrow, and too petty for God. John the Baptist's followers wanted him out of prison. Jesus showed them that the blind were receiving their sight, the lame were walking, the deaf were hearing, lepers were being cleansed, and the poor were having the gospel preached to them The power of the kingdom was on full display, and lives were being transformed for eternity. Rest assured. that when God fails to meet our expectations, it's always because He has something better planned. When God fails to meet our expectations, it's always because our expectations were too low. Too worldly, too self-centered, too petty. God is not going to change. And for that, we should be very, very thankful. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 25. To you, O Lord, I lift up my soul. O my God, in you I trust. Let me not be put to shame. Let not my enemies triumph over me Indeed, none who wait for you shall be put to shame. They shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous. Make me to know your ways, O Lord Teach me your paths. Lead me in your truth and teach me. For you are the God of my salvation. For you I wait all the day long. Remember your mercy, O Lord, and your steadfast love, for they have been from of old. Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions, according to your steadfast love, remember me For the sake of your goodness, O Lord. Good and upright is the Lord. Therefore he instructs sinners in the way He leads the humble in what is right and teaches the humble his way. All the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness for those who keep his commandments and his testimonies. For your name's sake, O Lord, pardon my guilt, for it is great. Who is the man who fears the Lord? Him he will instruct in the way he should choose. His soul shall abide in well-being, and his offspring shall inherit the land. The friendship of the Lord is for those who fear him, and he makes known to them his covenant. My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for he will pluck my feet out of the net. Turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted. The troubles of my heart are enlarged. Bring me out of my distresses. Consider my affliction and my trouble, and forgive all my sins. Consider how many are my foes, and with what violent hatred they hate me. O guard my soul and deliver me. Let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in you. May integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for you. Redeem Israel, O God. out of all his troubles. Psalm 25 is one of those Psalms that you really can just pray straight through. I mean it is it's clear enough. It's applicable to our lives directly and clearly. And so it's one of those psalms that you can just pray. You can just pray it up to the Lord directly, word for word. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, we do turn to you and we lift up our soul to you. We trust in you. We do not want to be put to shame. We confess to you. O Lord, that we have expectations of the way we think our lives should go. We think we understand what it is to be blessed. and what it is to be led in paths that are steadfast love and faithfulness. But our expectations are misguided because we are misguided. Our brains are so small, our understanding is so low, our perspective is so limited, our desires are so selfish. So, Father, help us to trust in you. Forgive us for our sins. Lead us in the way that you have for us. Make us humble enough to know that we don't know it all And that even things that are painful, deeply painful, troubling, challenging, disturbing, if they're from you and everything in our lives is ultimately from you. They are given to us for our good. They are ordained by you for good. And we pray that you would lead us in the good that you have for us. For the sake of your name. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that brings us to the end of our fifth week together of walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope they're a blessing to you. And I hope that you can join us next week. Have a blessed day in the Lord, and make sure you're worshiping together with his people on this coming Lord's Day.