Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Demmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our fifth day, final day of our week 15. We are in the Gospel of Mark, looking at the second half of the chapter, verses 21 to 43, and then we're going to be reading and praying in response to Psalm 76. In Mark 5, we're asking this unusual question, where is God in this horror show? Mark 5, 21. And when Jesus had crossed again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered about him, and he was beside the sea. Then came one of the rulers of the synagogue, Giairus by name, and seeing him he fell at his feet and implored him earnestly, saying, My little daughter is at the point of death, come, and lay your hands on her, so that she may be made well and live. and he went with him. And a great crowd followed him and thronged about him. And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years And who had suffered much under many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no better, but rather grew worse She had heard reports about Jesus and came up behind him in the crowd and touched his garment, for she said, If I touch even his garments, I will be made well. And immediately the flow of blood dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her disease. And Jesus, perceiving in himself that power had gone out from him, immediately turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched my garments? And his disciples said to him, You see the crowd pressing around you, and yet you say who touched me? And he looked around to see who had done it. But the woman knowing what had happened to her, came in fear and trembling, and fell down before him and told him the whole truth. And he said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace and be healed of your disease. While he was still speaking, there came from the ruler's house some who said, Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the teacher any further? But overhearing what they said, Jesus said to the ruler of the synagogue, Do not fear, only believe. And he allowed no one to follow him except Peter and James and John, the brother of James They came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and Jesus saw a commotion, people weeping and wailing loudly. And when he had entered, he said to them, Why are you making a commotion and weeping? The child is not dead, but sleeping. And they laughed at him. But he put them all outside, and took the child's father and mother, and those who were with him, and went into where the child was Taking her by the hand, he said, Talita kumi, which means, little girl, I say to you, arise And immediately the girl got up and began walking, for she was twelve years of age, and they were immediately overcome with amazement, and he strictly charged them that no one should know this And told them to give her something to eat. As I read today's readings, two people's sayings came to mind. First, a friend of mine, a Christian man. He would always respond to the question, how are you, with better than I deserve. And I would always think, that's so true. And I would often say, aren't we all? But secondly, an atheistic woman was asked about God, and she responded, where is God in this horror show? I also sympathize with her words. Very often life in this world is a horror show. So where is God? Why is life so often a horror show? And how can we say that we're all doing better than we deserve? One of the things I love about the Bible is that it is a brutally realistic book. It doesn't cover up sin or minimize suffering. Some Christians act like it does. Some atheists and skeptics will attack the Bible for condoning rape and slavery and murder. But the Bible doesn't condone these actions. It shows them for what they are. In today's passage, we see two heartbreaking horror show incidents. A woman who has had a discharge of blood for 12 years and a young girl who dies at 12 years old. Twelve years is an awfully long time to bleed, but a terribly short time to live. Sadly, we live in a world where things like this happen all the time, so where is God? First, the very fact that Jesus came into the world and healed the sick and raised the dead, that tells us what God thinks about these horrible realities. Remember that according to the Bible Such suffering comes into the world as a result of sin. God hates all sin and all the consequences it has brought into his creation, which is why he sent his son into the world out of love for his people. and hatred for sin and its curse. Second, Jesus' victory over sin and death on the cross and in his resurrection secures victory and final deliverance for his people. Those who trust in Jesus and hold fast to him in faith have assurance that the horror show is temporary. But God's love and salvation are eternal. Jesus showed that he has the power to defeat all the horrible enemies, sin, sickness, demons, blindness, paralysis, death, his promise is that each of these realities is only temporary. And third, we can learn to trust God that the horror show is not without purpose. The world may seem to be spinning out of control, but it is not. God has all things in his hands and he works all things for his purpose. That doesn't mean that he's in favor of everything that happens, or that he delights in evil. No. But evil can have purpose and can be used for good if God is in control of it all. Otherwise, it truly is senseless This is hard because at times everything within us screams out, senseless. But we need not give in to despair. God is working, even when we can't see his hands Where is God in this horror show? He is hating the evil which he sent his son to defeat, even as he is working redemption for those who trust in him And so in the midst of the horror, which our sinful rebellion against God has brought into the world, we are all doing better than we deserve. Let's go to Psalm 76. It's written to the choirmaster with stringed instruments. It's a psalm of Asaf, and it's a song. In Judah, God is known. His name is great in Israel. His abode has been established in Salem, his dwelling place in Zion. There he broke the flashing arrows, the shield, the sword, and the weapons of war. Glorious are you, more majestic than the mountains full of prey. The stout-hearted were stripped of their spoil, they sank into sleep, all the men of war were unable to use their hands At your rebuke, O God of Jacob, both rider and horse lay stunned, but you are to be feared. Who can stand before you when once your anger is roused? From the heavens you uttered judgment. The earth feared and was still When God arose to establish judgment, to save all the humble of the earth Surely the wrath of man shall praise you, the remnant of wrath you will put on like a belt. Make your vows to the Lord, your God, and perform them Let all around him bring gifts to him who is to be feared, who cuts off the spirit of princes who is to be feared by the kings of the earth. Let's pray. O Father, you are to be feared, for you are majestic in holiness and you are sovereign in power. You save the humble of the earth. You give judgments that are true and right. You cast down the wicked oppressor, and you set the oppressed free. You gave your son to make this a reality. We thank you. We thank you that in Jesus we have vindication, we have salvation, we have deliverance. May we proclaim the gospel and demonstrate the power of Christ in touching the sick, in feeding the hungry. in sharing the good news for as long as you give us breath, knowing that we are always doing better than we deserve. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. That is a wrap on week 15. We'll be back on Monday with week 16 as we continue through the Gospel of Mark. Have a blessed day. Have a blessed weekend. Have a blessed Lord today. And hopefully I'll see you, Lord willing, back here on Monday.