Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're here in our eighth week, and our second day we're Finishing up Matthew 15 today, looking at verses 21 to 39 and asking, what is faith and where does it come from? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please be our teacher today. Your word is powerful, living, and active, but we need your Holy Spirit to bring your word to bear on our lives, to write it on our hearts, and to change us by it. So we pray that you would do so in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 15, 21-39. And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre in Sidon. And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David, my daughter is severely oppressed by a demon. But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and begged him, saying, Send her away, for she is crying out after us. He answered, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. But she came and knelt before him, saying, Lord, please help me. And he answered, It is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. She said, Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their master's table. Then Jesus answered her, O woman, great is your faith. Let it be done for you as you desire. And her daughter was healed instantly. Jesus went on from there and walked beside the Sea of Galilee, and he went up on the mountain and sat down there, and great crowds came to him. Bringing with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and many others, and they put them at his feet and he healed them So that the crowd wondered when they saw the mute speaking, the crippled healthy, the lame walking, and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel. Then Jesus called his disciples to him and said, I have compassion on the crowd, because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat, and I am unwilling to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way. And the disciples said to him, Where are we to get enough bread in such a desolate place to feed so great a crowd? And Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? They said, Seven and a few small fish And directing the crowd to sit on the ground, he took the seven loaves and the fish, and having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds. And they all ate and were satisfied, and they took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces left over. Those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children And after sending away the crowds, he got into the boat and went to the region of Magadin. In today's reading, we have a great contrast in the faith of this Canaanite woman and the disciples. The disciples had already seen Jesus feed a crowd of 5,000 with five loaves and two fish. They had seen him do many other miracles, including healing the plane, lime, uh crooked and mute, right before their stunning lack of faith in response to Jesus' request in verses thirty two and thirty-three. This Canaanite woman had never met Jesus before, and probably didn't know much of anything about the Lord as she was a foreigner and a woman. So who would you expect to have more faith? Men who were raised in the community of Israel and who had followed Jesus for some time? seeing him perform many great works, or a foreign woman who had never heard of Jesus, who had heard of Jesus, but had never met him before. This is the strange nature of faith. True faith is a gift of God's grace. God in his providence ordained the meeting. between this unnamed Canaanite woman and Jesus to give her the gift of faith and show the miracle of her faith to the disciples. He then allowed the disciples to see their own lack of faith so clearly, so again they would know the truth about faith. And here's the truth about faith. First, faith is not given to us because we are male or female. Second, faith is not given to those because they are Jewish. or Gentile, or religious insider, or a religious outsider. Faith is given by the grace of God. Third, faith is not given because we have education or experience. And fourth, and this is perhaps most stunning in our day and age, faith does not come from sight Seeing is not believing, contrary to the popular slogan that you might have heard. Faith is a gift God gives it by his grace to whom he wills. It comes out of his love, and it meets our need primarily by connecting us to Jesus, helping us to see Jesus for who he really is. And that's what that Canaanite woman had that even at this point the disciples were still struggling to grasp. Well let's go to Psalm 37. This is a Psalm of David. Fret not yourself because of evildoers. Be not envious of wrongdoers, for they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb Trust in the Lord and do good. Dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord. Trust in Him, and He will act. He will bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your justice as the noonday. Be still before the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices. Refrain from anger, and forsake wrath. Fret not yourself, it tends only to evil, for the evildoers shall be cut off. But those who wait for the Lord shall inherit the land. In just a little while, the wicked will be no more. Though you look carefully at his place, he will not be there. But the meek shall inherit the land, and delight themselves in abundant peace The wicked plots against the righteous and gnashes his teeth at him, but the Lord laughs at the wicked, for he sees that his day is coming. The wicked draw a sword and bend their bows to bring down the poor and needy, to slay those whose way is upright, their sword shall enter their own heart, and their bows shall be broken. Better is the little that the righteous has, then the abundance of many wicked. For the arms of the wicked shall be broken But the Lord upholds the righteous. The Lord knows the days of the blameless, and their heritage will remain forever. They are not put to shame in evil times. In the days of famine they have abundance, but the wicked will perish. The enemies of the Lord are like the glory of the pastures. They vanish, they like smoke, they vanish away. The wicked borrows but does not pay back, but the righteous is generous and giving. For those blessed by the Lord shall inherit the land, but those cursed by him shall be cut off. The steps of a man are established by the Lord. When he delights in his way, though he fall, he shall not be cast headlong, for the Lord upholds his hand. I have been young. And now I'm old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, or his children begging for bread. He is ever lending generously, and his children become a blessing. Turn away from evil and do good. So you shall dwell forever, for the Lord loves justice. He will not forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off. The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell upon it forever. The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks justice. The law of his God is in his heart, his steps do not slip. The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death. The Lord will not abandon him to his power, or let him be condemned when he is brought to trial. Wait for the Lord and keep his way. And he will exalt you to inherit the land. You will look on when the wicked are cut off. I have seen a wicked, ruthless man spreading himself like a green laurel tree. But he passed away, and behold he was no more. Though I sought him, he could not be found. Mark the blameless, and behold the upright for there is a future for the man of peace. But transgressors shall be altogether destroyed. The future of the wicked shall be cut off The salvation of the righteous is from the Lord. He is their stronghold in the time of trouble. The Lord helps them and delivers them. He delivers them from the wicked and saves them because They take refuge in him. Well, this psalm is a great portrait of faith and also a great comfort at a time when faith can be shaken. You see, our faith is in the Lord. And a great definition of faith is that those who have faith are those who take refuge in God, in Christ. And those who take refuge in the Lord, in the Lord Jesus Christ, will wait for the Lord, and they will keep his way. And they will trust the Lord. And their salvation is then from the Lord. All of this is a portrait of what it looks like to be a person of true saving faith But one of the things that can shake our faith is when wicked people are prospering and when they're coming against the righteous, and it looks like we're going to be doomed. But we are to trust in the Lord. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, you've given us faith by your grace. And that faith causes us to run to you for refuge, to look to you for our salvation. And that faith, placed in Christ Jesus, is never disappointed. Yes, in this fallen world the wicked often prosper. Yes, they plot against the righteous, but ultimately there's nothing they can do, even if they do Take everything the righteous have in this world and kill them. You have more than enough treasure for us in eternity to compensate for whatever is lost in this world, and you welcome us into eternal life in your presence. So we need to be confident and joyful and steadfast in our faith. Make us so, we pray, by your grace, for your glory, in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We'll be back tomorrow, and we'll be heading on to Matthew 16. Have a blessed day in the Lord.