Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're in our 28th week together. We're in the Gospel of Luke, in Luke 17. We've got about a month left in the Gospel of Luke, and then we'll be shifting over to the Gospel of John. And uh so let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look at Luke 17, 20 to 37 today. Heavenly Father, our gracious God, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for the ways in which you reveal your Son to us. Thank you for your faithfulness to speak to us through your word day after day. We pray that you would speak by your Holy Spirit and show Christ to us. In this passage, so that we can love him more and we can follow him more closely. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, in Luke 17, verses 20 to 37 today, we're going to be asking this question. If I can find it. The question is, what is the kingdom of God and where is it? What is the kingdom of God and where is it? So let's read our passage. Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he answered them, The kingdom of God is not coming in ways that can be observed. Nor will they say, look, here it is, or there, for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you. And he said to the disciples, The days are coming when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it. And they will say to you, look there, or look here, do not go out or follow them. For as the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one side to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day. But first He must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. Just as it was in the days of Noah, so it will be in the days of the Son of Man. They were eating and drinking and marrying and being given in marriage until the day when Noah entered the ark and the flood came and destroyed them all. Likewise, just as it was in the days of Lot, they were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building, but on the day when Lot went out from Sodom Fire and sulfur rained from heaven and destroyed them all. So will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed. On that day Let the one who was on the housetop with his goods and the house not come down to take them away, and likewise let the one who is in the field not turn back. Remember Lot's wife Whoever seeks to preserve his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will keep it. I tell you, in that night there will be two in one bed, one will be taken, the other left. There will be two women grinding, one will be taken, the other left. And they said to him, Where, Lord? He said to them, Where the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. Throughout the Gospels, we hear Jesus teaching on the kingdom of God over and over again. Many of his parables begin with, the kingdom of God is like. So today we might ask, where is the kingdom of God? In past centuries, some Christians thought they could identify the geographical boundaries and political structures of the kingdom of God. When Christendom ruled over Europe and the Americas, many Christians believed they could look at the maps and see where the kingdom of God was spread. But Jesus never taught, envisioned, or encouraged such a narrow political worldly perspective on the kingdom of God. Jesus did not challenge the Roman authorities and seek to overthrow their political rule over Israel. Instead When the Pharisees asked Jesus about the kingdom of God, he told them, The kingdom of God is in the midst of you. Where God rules in the hearts and lives of his people, and where the power to save is working in the lives of sinners, the kingdom of God is present. The visible manifestation of the kingdom of God is found in the church, specifically in faithful churches where God is worshiped, the word of God is preached, people are being saved and growing in love for the Lord and for one another. And so, in the ways in which the world measures power and kingdom and glory, the kingdom of God is a hidden kingdom. Tucked away from the kingdoms of the world. It is spread among the kingdoms, and yet rises above them in life-changing power. It alone transforms the lives of its citizens from the inside out. Now, while the kingdom of God is hidden now, it will not always be this way. One day, Jesus will come again and cause his kingdom to be fully and gloriously known by all the nations of the world. Jesus taught, for as the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one side to another, so the Son of Man will be in his day. That which is hidden will be revealed Until that day, we must be careful as the followers of Jesus not to confuse the nature of the kingdom. We must be careful not to measure power and glory the way the world does. For that kind of perspective lowers the kingdom of God to a lesser standard. When the church forgot that the spiritual power of the gospel given to us is in fact far superior to the world's political and military power, our influence for good in the world declines. Instead of compromising with the world and seeking to matter in ways that the world says matter, we need to hold fast to the gospel. To God honoring worship, to missions, evangelism. We need to let Jesus define his own kingdom, and we need to wait in faith. Longing for that day when Jesus will come and shine from one end of the sky to the other. Come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen. Well let's turn our attention now to Psalm one thirty-two It's another of the songs of the sense. Remember, O Lord, in David's favor, all the hardships he endured. How he swore to the Lord and vowed to the mighty one of Jacob, I will not enter my house or get into my bed, I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids. until I find a place for the Lord, a dwelling place for the mighty one of Jacob. Behold, we heard of it in Ephra We found it in the fields of Jaar. Let us go to his dwelling place. Let us worship at his footstool. Arise, O Lord, and go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might Let your priests be clothed with righteousness, and let your saints shout for joy. For the sake of your servant David, do not turn away the face of your anointed one. The Lord swore to David a sure oath from which he will not turn back. One of the sons of your body I will set on your throne. If your sons keep my covenant and my testimonies that I shall teach them, their sons also forever shall sit on your throne. For the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his dwelling place. This is my resting place forever. Here I will dwell, for I have desired it. I will abundantly bless her provisions, I will satisfy her poor with bread, her priests I will clothe with salvation, and her saints. will shout for joy. There I will make a horn to sprout for David. I have prepared a lamp for my anointed. His enemies I will clothe with shame, but on him his crown will shine. That's Psalm 132. And it's actually a great picture of the church, because the church is the Zion where God dwells by his Spirit and the worship of the church. We are the priests. We are the ones clothed with righteousness and with salvation, with Jesus, and we are the ones who shout for joy for the goodness of God among us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, what a powerful picture of your kingdom you've given us in Psalm 132. You've chosen the greater David. The Son of David, the Son of Man, Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior, you've chosen him to be the one who reigns in the midst of us, your people, your church. Your priests, clothed in the garments of salvation, clothed with the righteousness of Jesus. Thank you. Thank you that you are at work powerfully through the preaching of your word, through the power of the gospel to save, through your Holy Spirit working in our midst. Continue to work. And keep our hearts from desiring the world with its lesser promises, its lesser powers, its lesser gospels that are false. And keep our hearts pursuing you, your glory, and your kingdom. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me as we kick off week 28 here. Tomorrow we're going to turn our attention to Luke 18. And uh I hope you can join me if that and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.