Amen. Now turn with me, please, to Isaiah chapter 28. Isaiah 28, verses 1 to 13, is our portion of God's word for this morning. Before I start reading, I'll say up front, it is a challenging portion of God's Word that He has in His sovereign grace put before us this morning, but uh by His Spirit, who inspired it. He will write it on our hearts and help us to respond by faith. For he is faithful. Isaiah 28, verses 1 to 13. This is the Word of God. Ah, the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim, and the fading flower of its glorious beauty. Which is on the head of the rich valley of those overcome with wine. Behold, the Lord has one who is mighty and strong. Like a storm of hail, a destroying tempest, like a storm of mighty overflowing waters, he casts down to the earth with his hand. The proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trodden underfoot, and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley will be like a first ripe fig before the summer. When someone sees it, he swallows it as soon as it is in his hand. In that day the Lord of hosts will be a crown of glory and a diadem of beauty to the remnant of his people. And a spirit of justice to him who sits in judgment, and strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate. These also reel with wine and stagger with strong drink. The priest and the prophet Real with strong drink. They are swallowed up by wine. They stagger with strong drink. They reel in vision. They stumble in giving judgment. For all tables are full of filthy vomit with no space left. To whom will he teach knowledge? And to whom will he explain the message? Those who are weaned from the milk, those taken from the breast? For it is precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little. For by people of strange lips and with a foreign tongue, the Lord will speak to this people, to whom he has said, This is rest. Give rest to the weary, and this is repose, yet they would not hear And the word of the Lord will be to them, precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line. Here a little, there a little, that they may go and fall backward and be broken, ensnared, and taken. is the word of God. Father, thank you for your word. Every part of your word is breathed out by you and is profitable for teaching. For reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, so that we may be thoroughly equipped, prepared for every good work. So take this portion of your word. And use it for your glory in our lives and for our true and eternal good, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Which crown do you want? In the midst of everything said in this passage, there are very clearly presented to us two crowns. The twice-mentioned proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim in verse 1 and verse 3. And then the Lord of hosts himself as a crown of glory and a diadem of beauty in verse 5. And so much of life really boils down to a very simple and yet very profound question, and that is which crown do you want? Everyone's chasing some kind of crown. And really, at the end of the day, everyone is either chasing a proud crown. Or the Lord as the crown of his holy remnant. The proud crown is a fading flower, while the Lord is a crown of glory and beauty. One who gives justice and strength and rest. What do we mean by a crown? Everybody's chasing a crown. Come on. We live in America. We're a democracy. We're not chasing crowns. We're not interested in crowns. Some Americans have a fascination with the British royal family. That's another thing altogether. I don't know why That's got nothing to do with what's here. What is here, although the picture of a crown will help us understand that perhaps. What is a crown? At the end of the day, a crown is something that you desire. Something you value. One of the earliest crowns I remember desiring and valuing was a Burger King crown. They still do those? Yeah Doesn't last super long, but it's fun when you're a kid. I also meant my dad was taking us to get fast food, which almost never happened. A crown is something you value, something you're chasing after, something that defines you. That you you want to define you, you want it to make you distinct from everyone around you in a way. But a crown is also something that, by defining you, controls you because it sits on your head as a sign of authority. So think about a monarch being crowned, right? The crown placed on their head represents both an honor and a responsibility. The crown is placed on them as an honor, sets them apart. They're distinct. They're the king, they're the queen, right? But they are also placed under that crown. And so that crown sits on them as something which defines, controls, limits, and guides them. If they take it seriously. Crowns are not just for rulers. Everyone is chasing a crown. crown. Everyone has something that they desire above all else, that they want to have mark them as special, that they want to be known by, that they want to be distinguished by. When you get it, you put it on your head, but you're also putting yourself under it. Because if it's the thing that you want to distinguish you, if it's the thing that you want to define you, it will And absolutely everyone Either has or is chasing a crown because it's really not possible to live without the pursuit of something. Have to have some reason to get out of the bed in the morning and put your feet on the floor. Even people who say they have nothing to live for, that's kind of their crown. Right? Some people wallow in self-pity, they feel sorry for themselves, they want other people to feel sorry for them. And so a crown of sorrow and shame is still a crown. Still something that you say, this is what identifies me. I'm the hopeless case. That's me. That's still a crown. crown. Some people's crowns are their jobs and careers. Other people's crowns are their favorite sports teams. What time do the Ravens play today? Many people in our community, including many Christians, have made their children their crown. Some people have recreation and relaxation as a crown, the old song, everybody's working for the weekend. And yes, that is an old song now. Others have a more intense desire and drive for pleasure. They just want to have as much fun as they can to have have intense experiences that make them feel alive. These could be adrenaline junkies who, you know ride motorcycles off of the edge of cliffs and then deploy their parachute because in that moment they feel more alive than any other moment. Or they could be people who just feast and drink, you know, until they're passed out because they just want to feel. Some people chase money, some people power and influence. Some people just really want people to like them. They want to be liked, respected, well thought of. Other people just want people to leave them alone. And their crown might just be me time. We all chase these crowns. And in the chasing and wearing of them, we give ourselves to them and they control us. But here's a secret about all the world's crowns. In the end, they're all the same. Because they're all just models, different models of the same basic crown, and that is the crown of pride, of living for myself. So let's hear again verses 1 to 4. Ah, the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim and the fading flower of its glorious beauty. Which is on the head of the rich valley of those overcome with wine. Behold, the Lord has one who is mighty and strong like a storm of hail, a destroying tempest, like a storm of mighty overflowing waters, he cast down to the earth. With his hand, the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trodden underfoot, and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley. will be like a first ripe fig before the summer. When someone sees it, he swallows it as soon as it is in his hand. Alright, so Ephraim. Who's Ephraim? That's the northern kingdom of Israel, the northern ten tribes. And one of the things you need to know To just understand the context. So after King Solomon, when King Rehoboam his son became king, Rehoboam was a fool And ten of the twelve tribes said, we don't want a fool for a king. We're out of here. They separate themselves off. They become the northern kingdom of Israel. And then the two tribes that remain, Judah and Benjamin, become the southern kingdom of Judah. Ephraim is another name for the northern kingdom of Israel because it's the largest tribe that's among those ten tribes. It's also sometimes called Samaria, which is its capital. And we think that's confusing because we don't understand the reference, but you know, we're called the United States, we're also called America, and we'll also in foreign places we'll say, what are what is Washington, D. C. doing? You know, what are the people in DC doing? doing that's and that's the Americans, right? So this the same way. It's like Ephraim. It's a northern tribe. And one thing you should notice that if you get 10 out of twelve, And the other person has two out of twelve, who's richer? Right? The ten. Who's more powerful? The ten. Who's gonna have more weight in international relations? The ten. So not only that But the northern territory is the most fertile ground. The rich valley is referred to a couple of times. There's a valley, Jezreel. Overseen by Har Megiddo, sometimes called Armageddon, is a rich valley that runs through northern Israel that is even today among the richest and most productive farmland in the world. It gets a lot of rainfall that runs down the slopes of the surrounding mountains. It's a very wide and flat valley. It was a convenient highway for armies to march on, but when armies weren't marching on it, it grew a lot of crops. You also have the Sea of Galilee in the north, which is probably the most abundant freshwater fishery in the entire Mediterranean basin. It's a substantial and abundant source of freshwater fish. So they were rich. They were powerful. I was surprised when I took the history of ancient Israel in college to find out that historians Consider King Ahab to be a great king. We look at him like, oh Ahab, the guy Ahab and Jezebel, they persecuted the prophets, they're terrible. But the world looks at that and says, actually he was a great king because he led Israel to the peak. of their power. And this is the difference between the way the world looks at things and the way God looks at things, right? The world says, do you have power, do you have money? Do you have strong alliances? And God says, are you faithful to me? So having become so wealthy and so powerful, they were full of pride. That's why they have a proud crown. And they were also drunkards. They were addicted to much wine. They drank heavily. They partied hard. And they thought we are the great ones. Nothing can bother us. It's interesting, the proud crown of the drunkards, which that phrase is used twice here. As I was thinking about this passage, it occurred to me that pride and alcohol have a lot in common. In moderation Under the Lordship of God, both can serve a positive purpose The Bible does tell us in Psalm 104 that God made wine to gladden the heart of man, and the Apostle Paul advised Timothy to take a little wine for your stomach. People are made in the image of God, and we are dearly loved by God. It is wrongheaded and toxic to think we are utterly useless and pointless. That is satanic thinking. There is this satanic thinking among the rising generation, among Gen Z, that there's no point to life and I wish I didn't exist. And some young adults have even gone so far as to sue their parents in court for their existence because they're like, I never asked to be born. I don't want this life. You're to fault. Like that's silly and sad at the same time and tragic. It's satanic for to say you have no purpose, you have no worth, you're useless. That is not God. That is not the voice of God. God says, you're made in my image and you've fallen into sin and I love you and I will redeem you, but you have to submit to me and trust me, you have to follow me. So a little bit of appropriate pride in the fact that we're made in God's image and that we do have dignity and worth is appropriate. However, both alcohol and pride can easily get out of hand. Excessive pride is dangerous. It's a poison to the soul just as surely as excessive alcohol is a poison to the body. Both pride and alcohol can make us seemingly brave and bold. willing to do and say things we wouldn't have done and said otherwise, but both of them can then also get us in deep trouble. Excessive pride and excessive alcohol can both cause us to be utterly selfish, inconsiderate of others, reckless, and then self-destructive. They can hurt us and those around us, and they can both quickly become enslaving. Some people's pride will lead them to be wildly boastful and reckless, thinking nothing can hurt me, I'm bulletproof, take dangerous risks. Other people's pride leads them to be mean, unhappy, unsatisfied. And ironically, being constantly disappointed in yourself and beating yourself up for not being better than you are is actually rooted in pride as well. If you just think about it for a minute. When you have unrealistically high expectations of yourself, it's because you have an overinflated view of yourself. And you think you ought to be great, and you're not. And so you think you should have a crown and you don't and you're disappointed. So all of this, Isaiah 28, the Lord is calling out the proud drunkards of Ephraim. Because they were callous, selfish, idolatrous, oppressive, and presumptuous. They craved power and pleasure. Their drunkenness was a reflection of the attitude They thought they had achieved everything themselves. Look at how great we are It's easy to let external things define us. It's easy to say, well, I have a pretty nice house. I've got a pretty nice car, I've got a pretty good job, it pays pretty well, I'm well respected, I've gotten promotions, I've got a good retirement savings plan going. It's easy to measure life by those external things and become self-satisfied. It's also easy to measure life by those things and be sort of desperately upset because you don't have the house you want to be. And you don't have the car you wanted, and your bank account's not where you thought it would be. And that's just chasing after this crown of pride. What God values Is the problem with Ephraim and the problem with so many of God's people today, the problem with us so many times, that is what God values Is that we would listen to him and respond in faith to what he says to us about ourselves, about our lives, about our place in the world, about our calling. And if we will run after a crown of pride, which is a fading flower. It's called a fading flower twice because it withers and it blows away when the Lord blows on it. The Lord has one who is a mighty and strong, a storm of hail, destroying tempest storm of mighty overflowing waters he cast down to the earth with his hand. If we continue to chase The prideful crowns that the world is calling us to chase after and giving us in a hundred and one different flavors of the same thing. If we don't do, then God loves us and God will remove those things from us and God will humble us. And God will call us to repentance. God offers Himself to us as a crown. Hear this. In verse five, God offers himself to us as a crown, but he will not be taken by us as God offers Himself to us as a crown, but He will not be taken by us as a tool. And that's the way a lot of people approach God is, okay, what I want is basically some version of the American dream And so I'm going to go to church and pray and make good connections with people so that I can have what I really want, which is this worldly crown. Instead of what I really want is the Lord And I want him to be the Lord of my life. So there's a world of difference between God as a crown and God as a tool. God cannot be wielded, he cannot be manipulated, he cannot be used, although many, many people try. And religious professionals are among the worst. A lot of people get into ministry because it's going to give them what they really want in life, which is a lot of people to look at them and think they're great. And to hang on to every word and to do whatever they say. And those people, you need to just stay away from them. How do you know who they are? Well, you need to watch. I'm just going to be straightforward with you. Anybody in this day and age who calls themselves a prophet or an apostle, Is someone who has a crown of pride and is using God as a tool to get what they want. The Apostles and Prophets were given for the foundational era of the church. There are no more contemporary prophets receiving fresh revelation from God. There are no more apostles. The foundation was laid once. Anybody who's standing up and saying, I'm prophet so-and-so, or I'm apostle so-and-so, just change the channel, put the book in the bin, as the British would say. And move on. The word of God is what we need to hear. And so we need to be under the word and we need to receive the word. And the Word of God, hearing the Word of God is how God becomes our crown. That'll be very clear later in the passage. Okay. So God offers Himself to us. Verses five and six. In that day the Lord of hosts will be a crown of glory, and a diadem of beauty to the remnant of his people, and a spirit of justice to those who sit in judgment, and strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate. God himself gives himself to his people as a crown of glory and a diadem of beauty. And here's the difference. Here's the real difference between God is your crown and any of the worldly crowns, right? God, eternal, unfading, glorious. He's a crown of glory. Glory in the Bible carries with it the idea of weight Radiance, significance. God is a crown of glory because God is the glorious one. Earthly crowns fading But also, God as your crown gives strength to you The world's crowns, you ever notice the world's crowns sap strength from you? That's also the same thing with the worship of the one true God and the worship of idols. In the worship of the one true God, God gives himself to us on the cross In the worship of idols, they're always asking for things from us. God is our crown raises us to the heights that the world could never give defines us in a way that is more significant and longer lasting than anything the world has to offer and gives us strength. He says, I'll be a crown of glory, I'll be a diadem of beauty. I'm going to give you beauty. I'm going to be a spirit of justice to those who sit in judgment. I'm going to be a strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate? What were these rulers in Ephraim supposed to do? What's a ruler supposed to do? They're supposed to establish justice, and they're supposed to defend the people against their enemies. And they think that by being powerful and rich and making all these international alliances and being great themselves, they're going to accomplish that. But they're too drunk to make any kind of sound judgment. And they are at the mercy of those international alliances they've made, so as soon as an international ally turns its back on them, they're done. God says, instead, I'll be a crown of glory. I'll be a diadem of beauty. I'll be a spirit of justice. When you sit in judgment, I'll give you strength to turn back the battle at the gate. In other words, God says, I'm going to give you whatever it is you need to do whatever it is I've called you to do. That's how we can translate that to us, because we're not rulers of an ancient kingdom, right? But if God is your crown of glory And he is the one who defines you and who controls your life, then he will give you whatever you need to be able to do whatever he's called you to do. He's not going to give you what you need to chase after the crowns of the world. So he says, stop that. Don't do that anymore. That's dumb. Get over here to do what I've called you to do, and I'll give you whatever you need to do what I've called you to do. And he will He'll give you the strength to be faithful. He'll give you the grace to grieve in hope. He will give you the peace that surpasses understanding. That God alone can give. He will not serve our selfish agenda, but he will never fail to give us what we need to glorify Him and to live His will for our lives. He will not fail. Now the sad reality to pick up again in set verses seven and eight is that this remnant Which the remnant historically is referring to Jerusalem and Judah, because when the Assyrians came through they wiped out the northern kingdom, they wiped out most of the southern kingdom, but there was a small remnant left in Jerusalem and Judah, and that's the remnant he's talking about And to that small remnant who was under King Hezekiah, who prayed, and the Lord delivered the city, wiped out the whole Assyrian army in a night, because God can do what no earthly army can do To that remnant, God says, I'm going to give you myself as a crown and glory, but what happens Remember what happened to Hezekiah later in his life after God answered him so miraculously and vanquished the Assyrian army and delivered him? Later in life, Hezekiah welcomed envoys from Babylon, the rising power in the world. He welcomed these envoys and he showed them all of his treasure and all of his wealth. Why was he doing that? Because he wanted to have an international alliance with them. What? Hezekiah, what are you doing? One angel of the Lord in one night wiped out a hundred and eighty-five thousand of the Assyrians and sent the most powerful army in the world to tucktail and run back home before they were all dead. And here he is later in life saying, I'd better show these envoys from Babylon how rich I am and how important I am so that they'll make an alliance with me God says, I gave you myself as a crown of glory, and you chased after the glory of the world. And that's a sobering reminder to us because it means God's people. God's people can get so caught up in chasing after the things of the world that they actually end up worse off than unbelievers That's why look at verse 7 and 8. These also reel with wine. These also, the remnant. These also reel with wine and stagger with strong drink. The priest and the prophet, those are the anointed servants of God. The priest and the prophet Real with strong drink, they are swallowed by wine. That's stronger language than he used of Ephraim They're swallowed by wine, they stagger with strong drink, they reel in vision, they stumble in giving judgment All tables are full of filthy vomit with no space left. Ew, gross, disgusting. That's in the Bible? Yeah, that's in the Bible, because the Bible's realistic. And the Bible says to us this: if you know the one true God, and He's given Himself to you as a crown of glory, but you insist on running after the fading crowns. The proud crowns of the world, you may crash and burn in a way so spectacular that it makes the sins of the world look like child's play. And we've seen it happen. And so we must. Just because you're a genuine Christian doesn't mean you are exempt from addiction. Or from catastrophic sin, if you choose to run after the false gods of the world, you'll suffer Now you'll suffer because God loves you and because God is exposing to you the folly of your ways and calling you back to yourself, but you'll suffer. And like I said, we've seen it. You don't need me to tell you that So why? Why does all this happen and how does correction come? Well, this comes in the last part of the section of this chapter, which may be a little bit the most confusing part, but it's actually not once you clear on it. So let's look at verses 9 and 10. To whom he will he teach knowledge? And to whom will he explain the message? Those who are weaned from the milk, those taken from the breast. For it is precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little. What's happening here is the remnant, the prophets and priests of Jerusalem and Judah, they're the ones that Isaiah is speaking to. Isaiah comes from a priestly family, and he's a prophet. So we know he was operating in the courts of Jerusalem. He had access to the king. He's speaking to these people, to these prophets and priests, the one where there's no space on their table because of all the vomit. Which is probably not literal, but it's meant to just that's how proud they are. That's how proud they've become. He's speaking to them and they're and they're resenting it. They're like, who are you talking to? So here's my paraphrase of verse 9. Who does he think he's talking to? A bunch of babies? Because it's blah blah blah You know, basic phonics, ABC, C spot run. It's either nonsense or it's such elementary language You're either talking babbling baby talk or you're trying to read the C spot run books to us. If this is not we don't want this, we're too mature, we're too sophisticated, we are men of the world, we are men of education We know better. Get that, get that out of here. We don't have time for that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The Word of God. It's good for children. We want our children to grow up knowing the Word of God and the ways of God so that they'll be well behaved. And they'll probably do well in school. But once you become an adult, once you sort of know how the world works, come on, you need something more sophisticated than that, don't you? I mean Really? This 2,000-year-old book written by a bunch of dead guys? I mean we gotta have something better than that, don't we? That's the attitude of many professing Christians. About a hundred years ago The church in America faced a crisis of what they would believe. Would they believe Modern Darwinian evolutionary science and the scholarship coming out of the universities, or would they believe the word of God? Would they believe what God said in his word is true? Modern Darwinian evolutionary science and the scholarship coming out of the universities was saying a very simple and very clear thing, and that is, come on, get real. Virgin birth? We're too sophisticated to fall for that nonsense sense. A resurrection from the dead? That's the best you have to offer. The guy was dead and now he's alive again? Right. Miracles? Come on, miracles are for fools. That's when the carnival comes to town and the guy does a magic trick and you fall for it. That's literally what churches in America a hundred years ago were deciding. Now they didn't say it openly to the people because they knew that everybody would just leave and not come back So instead they said, well, what we get from Christianity is a moral guide for living. Principles of how to be a good person. But they stopped preaching Christ and Him crucified. They stopped preaching the power of the gospel. And this swept through all the mainline Protestant churches in the 1920s. Presbyterian Church USA, United Methodists, Episcopal Church USA, Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, all the mainline Protestant churches, even Baptist churches. They all had a stream of this running through, and for most of them it sort of swept them away. And now they're just a shell of what they used to be. Because they wouldn't hear the word of God. So what God said to Judah and Jerusalem was, if you're not going to hear the word of God, I'm going to give it to you in a way that you don't want to hear. And that's verses eleven to thirteen. For by a people of strange lips and with a people of foreign tongue, the Lord will speak to this people to whom he has said, This is rest. Give rest to the weary, this is repose, and yet they would not hear. And the word of the Lord will be to them Precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little, that they may go and fall backward and be broken, ensnared, and taken. Hmm. What does it mean? Well, the cause of their downfall was that they would not hear the word of the Lord. So instead of hearing the word of the Lord, they're going to hear a people of strange lips and foreign tongue. They're going to hear those Babylonian envoys. that King Hezekiah showed off to, they're going to come back and they're going to say, yeah, we like the fact that you have so much gold and silver. We're going to take it for ourselves and we're going to take you too. Thank you for showing us how much you had to offer. We appreciate the preview for our shopping spree called Plundering You. They take him away into captivity. And what's interesting is it's in captivity that the hearts of many of God's people begin to be turned back to God because in part Pagan foreign language kings like Nebuchadnezzar, like Darius the Mead, and like Cyrus the Great, would all issue decrees and proclamations praising Yahweh the Lord. And so they would actually hear the truth from foreigners speaking a foreign language. And that's where in exile Israel got rid of their idol their idols. They never again worshipped Phil or Asherah. Now they still weren't perfectly faithful And so later, when Jesus came into the world, they didn't want to hear what he had to say either. He said simple things like, repent, for the kingdom of God is near. He said simple things like Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. Love your neighbor as yourself. He said simple things like follow me, and they're like, oh, come on. We don't have time for that. We live in the real world. Rome is occupying us. Do you have a solution to the Roman occupation problem? Because if you don't, we don't have time for you. Let's move on. And so then, having rejected the Word of God incarnate, on the day of Pentecost, God poured out his Holy Spirit, and the disciples were empowered to testify and speak the truth. in many different languages. In many different languages. And Isaiah 28. 11 is actually quoted by Paul in the New Testament to talk about speaking in tongues. It's a judgment, it's a sign. And it says, here, the Word of God's going to come to you again with power, but it's not going to come to you in Hebrew anymore. It's going to come to you in all the languages of the world because I'm going to spread my word to all the kingdoms of the world. All the Gentiles are going to hear the word. And even to this day, if Jewish people want to hear the true word of God, the true message from God, they pretty much have to hear it from Gentiles. Who can share Jesus with them? Because Jesus is the true Word of God. They needed to come under God's discipline before they were ready to hear the Word of God. And for us there's a warning that if we will harden our hearts to the truth, God will bring us under discipline so that we will hear it. I think it's happening already in the American church because in the twenties the mainline churches all said, we don't want God to his word to be true, we're gonna try to make it something else. An evangelical movement emerged after World War II, and there was an evangelical movement with people like Billy Graham and other people like that who preached the Bible and who brought people back to the Word of God. And it was back to the gospel and back to God's word. But then in the 80s and 90s, The evangelical churches said, well, if we follow after an entertainment model, we can have big churches, powerful churches. If we'll just give people what they want to hear to get them in the door, then we can have and so you had the era of the evangelical megachurch and I think that that is crumbling. People are seeing how weak that is. The Lord loves us too much to let us get complacent with our idols and grow deaf to his word. I'm going to say that again because it's Something that we think we all need to hear, because we all have idols. The Lord loves us too much to let us get complacent with our idols and grow deaf to his word. So where are you with the Word of God? That's the question this morning. Where are you with God and his truth? God has a very simple message for you, and this is it. You were made by God in his image. But you were born, fallen, and corrupted by sin Because you were born into a sinful and rebellious human race, and then you yourself, as soon as you were able, chose to rebel against God, chose to go your own way, chose to do your own thing. And that is the natural inclination of the heart. Man. But God loved you so much that He sent His one and only Son to fulfill all righteousness, to die on a cross, to rise again from the dead, to offer life and salvation to all who will believe in him Only by turning to him, only by trusting in him, only by believing in him, all of your sins can be forgiven. You can be made a child of God. You can have him as the crown of glory for your life. You can live for him and for his glory, which is the greatest thing to live for. And you can have real purpose for your life. Not a purpose that you determine for yourself, but a purpose that He determines for you and that He calls you to. And allows you to walk in as a privilege Have you come to him? Is he your crown? If you are a believer, you know that story, you believe that story. Are you tempted to be like, well, thanks to the crown God, but this over here looks really good, I'd like to have a lot of that If so, turn from it. Turn back to him. This is basic ABCs, line upon line, precept upon precept. You're a sinner, you need a savior, you can't run your own life, you need a king Turn from the world, turn back to Jesus. Don't resent that message. Embrace it as the life that it is. Yes, every day when I wake up in the morning, I need to say to God, You are my God. I am your child. You have saved me. I belong to you. Leave me today in your will. There's no better way to walk. There's no better crown to wear. God loves you. Let him be your crown for Time and eternity. Let's pray. Father, we need you to be our crown every day of our lives. We are all tempted. to make something else central and important in our lives, something else that is ultimately fading and that zaps us of our strength and that leaves us drained and tired. But you alone invite us to rest in you and to draw strength from you and to live the life that we were created to live. May we respond in faith to your word today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're going to respond