Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church We are in the Gospel of John now, the fourth and final gospel, very different gospel from the other three. It's my favorite gospel. It's a book I love. I've preached through this gospel at Forest Hill and excited about these coming months as we work our way through the Gospel of John between now and Thanksgiving. So today we are in John 1, 1 through 18, and we're asking this very important question, which is really central to the Gospel of John. Who is Jesus? Who is Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and for this day and for this time to spend in your word Please write your word in our hearts. Please help us to understand your word. Help us to receive it by faith. Help us to treasure it in our hearts. Help us to see Jesus more clearly As John introduces us to him today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, John chapter one. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. And the Word was God. He was, in the beginning, with God. All things were made through Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness, to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light, the true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him, but to all who did receive him Who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. John bore witness about him and cried out, This was he, of whom I said, He who comes after me ranks before me because he was before me. For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ No one has ever seen God. God, the only Son, who was at the Father's side, he has made him known. The Gospel of John is very different from Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Matthew, Mark, and Luke have a lot of shared material. So together they're called the synoptic gospels. Synopsis uh synoptic is with one eye or seeing together. And so it's it's a l it's a three perspectives that look at pretty much the same material throughout. And John comes along probably much later. uh probably a decade or two later after the other gospels have already been written, are already in circulation, are already well known. And John wants to fill in some of the gaps, some of what he's doing in his gospel, very obviously responding to questions that people would have had in their minds after they'd read the other gospels or or parts that maybe weren't explained as well in uh completely in the synoptic gospels and John sort of filling in some gaps. But but he's got he's got a bigger uh idea in mind. And that is the basic history of the ministry and death and resurrection of Jesus has been covered by Matthew, Mark, and Luke. John shifts his focus away from so much a retelling of the history as an unfolding of the theology. specifically of the Christology. What is Christology? Well it's this question that we opened with, who is Jesus? To make it clear, to make it unmistakable that Jesus knew who he was. and told us who he was, and the and that who he is, and is very clear throughout John's Gospel And so it is a focus on Christ, it is a focus on the glory of Christ, on the person and work of Christ, so that we might believe in Jesus. Of course that's well I've why all the Gospels are written, but John's is the most explicit in its in its theology and its Christology. And it begins with this wonderful prologue. It's sort of poetic, beautiful prologue of eighteen verses that really sets up the whole gospel. It's very different from the way, you know, Matthew opens with a genealogy and then the birth narrative. Luke opens up with the announcement of the birth of John the Baptist and then and then the birth narrative. Mark kind of jumps right into John the Baptist's ministry. But here before John gets into narrative Before he gets into the story, and he'll begin with John the Baptist, just like Mark does, but he tells us about Jesus first. The first thing he tells us about Jesus is that he is the Word. Who is Jesus? He's the eternal word, the one who was in the beginning with God. He's the word of creation. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. Here, John is intentionally echoing the beginning of Genesis. Genesis would have been well known to just about everybody who would have read John. And so in the beginning. Right? God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. The Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. And God said Let there be light. And there was light. There's a pattern there in Genesis 1. In the beginning, there's darkness. God speaks a word. And the word that he speaks is effective in bringing about the will of God, light in the darkness, order in chaos, life in emptiness. And John is deliberately recalling that. He's saying, that's Jesus. Jesus is the word who was in the beginning with God. He's with God. He is God. He's spoken forth, Word of God. And all things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made, and in him was life. All that life that bursts forth in Genesis 1, that's coming from Jesus, because in Jesus is life. He's the word of life He's the word who is God, because he's God's own wisdom, he's God's own mind. This word that's used in in the Greek of John is the word logos, which is more than just like a spoken word or a written word. There are different words for that. The logos is like The mind word, the wisdom of God, we could say. That Jesus is the wisdom of God spoken forth into the world to bring about all of creation, to give life. He shines the light because he is the light. He shines as the light in the darkness, and the darkness does not overcome it. Just as When the light shone in the beginning, the darkness scattered. All was darkness, but then there was light, and the light drove the darkness out and became day. Jesus is that word that shines forth the light because he is the light. And darkness cannot overcome the light that is Jesus. And Jesus is the word that is made flesh. This is down in verse 14. The word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. This this word, this wisdom of God becoming flesh is a shocking statement. It would have been a shocking statement to Jewish believers because the Torah, the Word of God, becoming a human being, becoming flesh, especially because flesh was seen as being sort of dirty and you know, tainted by the fall. In the Greek mind, flesh was inherently evil. It was what our souls were trying to escape from. So here John is telling us that Jesus, who is the word of creation, he you know, he created everything. Remember when he created everything, everything was very good, including our bodies, including our flesh. So he could take on flesh. And that flesh be very good and very God, because very God and very man, two distinct natures, in one person forever, Jesus, very God, takes on Very manhood, true flesh, a true body, and it's good. And so there's a challenge to the worldview of the day to say, hey, don't think like the world thinks. Think the way that God has revealed Himself. Jesus is also the Word who is full of grace and truth. That's what we see in verse 17 toward the end of this prologue. The law shows us the standard. Shows us the standard by which we need to be measured. But Jesus shows us the heart of God, grace and truth. These two words in Greek, that the word that's full of grace and truth. I think they correspond to two words that are put together a lot in the Hebrew scriptures, especially in the Psalms, steadfast love and faithfulness. Grace, steadfast love, the heart of God toward his people, to not treat us as our sins deserve, but to be committed to us in covenant love and to keep that commitment and truth. Faithfulness, the unbending, unwavering commitment to be who God is and do what He's pledged to do Steadfast love and faithfulness is grace and truth in New Testament language. So I think that John is echoing the Psalms and echoing this idea of who God is, that Jesus is the very heart of God. The law is the standard of God. The law reflects the righteous character of God. But Jesus is the revelation of the heart of God. So this is who Jesus is. He's the Word. The Word who was with God, the Word who was God, the Word of creation, the Word who is the light. The word that shines in the darkness and the darkness has not overcome it. The word that became flesh, and the word that is full of grace and truth. That's who Jesus really is. And so my question for you is, do you know him this way? Have you heard this word? Have you received this one? Have you believed in him? Because John 1. 12 tells us to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Through this word, who is the Son of God, as John will tell us later, and is told in here, the one and only Son from the Father. Through this word, we can become children of God. As we put our faith in him, and as we by faith are in him and he is in us. So do you know him? If you know him, are you living out who you are in him and telling others about him that they might come to know this word? who is the light and who's become flesh to redeem us, to show us grace and truth. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, thank you for the gift of your Son. We were in the darkness. We were dead in our sins and trespasses. We were cut off. from your light and from your love and from the knowledge of you, and you sent your son, who pierced the darkness. who gives life to the dead, who brings the word to the ignorant and the wayward, who shows us grace and truth. May we believe in Jesus, trust in Jesus, hide ourselves in Jesus, and grow in Jesus day by day, we pray. In Jesus' name and for his glory in our lives we seek. Amen. Thanks so much for joining me for our first study in the Gospel of John. We're going to be continuing this, as I said, until Thanksgiving time. So I hope you can join me day by day, Monday through Friday. I hope this is an encouragement and a blessing to you. Have a blessed day in the Lord.