Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus and the Gospels. As we're getting to know our Savior better, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Day four of our third week brings us to this next part of Matthew chapter six, and we're going to be dealing with heart issues. And so our question for this day is, who has your heart? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please be our teacher and our guide in your word. May your Holy Spirit write these words on our hearts that our hearts may belong to you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew six, sixteen to twenty-four. And when you fast, do not look gloomy. like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you fast, anoint your head, wash your face, that your fasting may not be seen by others, but by your Father who is in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroy destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. The eye is the lamp of the body. So if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness! No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. So often we don't like facing the reality of clear choices with equally clear consequences. We want to pretend we have a full range of possibilities, like a big menu at a restaurant in front of us, and that our choices don't really have the kinds of consequences that they actually do have. So much of what Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount comes like a giant splash of cold water to our faces because he confronts us with the truth, the truth that we often don't want to hear. The reality is that we must choose our priorities, and we must serve only one master and live for one destiny. If we're laying up treasures on earth, we will be disappointed. But if we're laying up treasures in heaven, we will never be disappointed. And then Jesus tells us that our hearts will follow our treasure. In other words, our affection and our loyalty will align with what we truly value. Then as if that wasn't clear enough, Jesus goes on to say something even more sobering. We can only serve one master We can't stand straddling the fence, wanting this world and the next, earth and heaven, the praise of men and the praise of God, earthly riches and heavenly rewards. We can only have one master. Only one voice will reign supreme in our hearts and lives, and so we need to ask ourselves an honest set of questions on our knees before the Lord He knows our hearts, and he knows the true answers better than we do. So first, who is my master, really? Second, where is my treasure? And third, what evidence is there in my life that would support my answers to the first two questions? If we cannot answer that God is my master and heaven is my treasure, And we don't have evidence to support these answers, then we clearly need to repent. We need to ask God to grant us repentance, a change of heart and mind. Life is too short, and eternity is too real and pressing to waste any of the precious time we have on serving false gods and laying up perishing treasure. Amen. Well let's turn our hearts and minds to Psalm 14 as we continue praying through Psalms. This is uh a portrait of those who are living for the things of this world. Psalm 14. To the choir master of David, the fool says in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt. They do abominable deeds. There is none who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand. Who seek after God, they have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is none who does good, not even one. Have they no knowledge? All the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon the Lord? There they are in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous. You would shame the plans of the poor, but the Lord is his refuge. Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion, when the Lord restores the fortunes of his people. You know what's sobering about Psalm 14 is Romans 3 picks up much of this language and quotes it. saying that this is true of all people apart from the grace of God. It's only the grace of God in Jesus Christ that changes our hearts. from being like Psalm 14 to being the generation of the righteous. It's only the grace of God and the righteousness of Jesus. Let's pray. Father, thank you. Thank you, thank you, that though we by nature serve the kingdom of self We by nature lay up treasure on earth where moth and rust destroy, where thieves break it and steal. We by nature are fools who say in our heart there is no God And we act as if there is no God. You by grace have given us a new nature in Christ. You by grace have given us new hearts. even the mind of Christ, even the heart of your Holy Spirit who lives within us. So may we live not like the fools of the world. But like the generation of the righteous that your grace has made us to be, may you work out in our lives by your Holy Spirit the reality. That we belong to you in your kingdom, our treasure is in heaven with you, and we serve one master, you, O Lord, are our God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for this look at the middle part of Matthew chapter six. Tomorrow we're going to finish Matthew six by taking a look at anxiety. So that's coming up. I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day. In the Lord,