Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. Our second day of our 37th week brings us here to John 14 verses 15 to 31. Jesus is going to start talking about the Holy Spirit. A lot of Christians are confused about the Holy Spirit. So today we're simply going to be asking, who is the Holy Spirit and what does he do? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word, which is inspired by your Holy Spirit, breathed out by you through your very Spirit. And Father, you have sent your Holy Spirit to live in the hearts of every believer. So teach us. Grow us in your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. John 14, 15-31, If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the Lord will and the world will see me no more. But you will see me, because I live, you also will live In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words And the word that you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you, but the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, He will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. You have heard me say to you, I am going away, and I will come to you. If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me. But I do as the Father has commanded me so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here. Well, without a doubt Between Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit is the member of the Trinity most misunderstood and most hotly debated and discussed among Christians. Pentecostals and charismatics have kind of separated themselves from the rest of Christianity over differing understandings of what it means to receive the Holy Spirit or to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Charismatics, Pentecostals, like there's kind of three different varieties, but the the first wave Pentecostals and old school charismatics would say you don't have the Holy Spirit unless you're speaking in tongues. And if you don't have the Holy Spirit, then you're not saved. And I would agree if you don't have the Holy Spirit, you're not saved. But I would disagree that the necessary manifestation of having the Holy Spirit is that you speak in tongues. Some would say, well you can have the Holy Spirit but not be filled with the Holy Spirit. And if you're filled with the Holy Spirit, then you're definitely going to speak in tongues. And again, I think that's sort of putting the Holy Spirit into one one particular box that isn't really a biblical one. So what do we believe? What do we believe about the Holy Spirit? Well, Jesus makes it clear that the Holy Spirit is sent from the Father and the Son. Because he talks about the Father sending the Spirit, but then he also talks about himself sending the Spirit. And the Spirit is the Spirit of truth And he's called here in verse 16 another helper. And it's another of the same kind, a comforter, a counselor, an advocate, another of the same kind as Jesus. Except Jesus could only be in one place at one time because he has a true human nature, and so he's limited by the fact that he has a true human nature to having he could talk to one person at one time. And the Holy Spirit, being truly God, is omnipresent, and so he can dwell in the heart of every believer all at the same time. That's clearly better, right? So the spirit of truth, the Holy Spirit, the world doesn't receive him, the world doesn't see him, the world doesn't know him. But if you belong to Jesus, you're not left as an orphan. He says, I come to you. The way he comes to us is by the Holy Spirit If you feel conviction of sin, if you feel comfort in the gospel, if you feel a closeness to Jesus, if you feel an assurance of your salvation, if you get truth and wisdom and insight. from the scriptures. Jesus says the Holy Spirit will will um teach you all things and will bring to remembrance the things that I've said to you. All of this is the work of the Holy Spirit. He's the one who comes to us so that we don't feel like orphans. He's the spirit of adoption. He's called the spirit of Christ, the spirit of truth. He's the helper who teaches us. who gives us peace, who comforts our hearts when we are troubled, who gives us assurance when we are afraid. Really, all of the blessings and benefits we have from being in relationship to God that we experience personally are applied to us by the Holy Spirit. The Father ordained our salvation. The Son accomplished our salvation. The Holy Spirit applies our salvation. Let's look at just a few highlights specifically from today's passage of what the Holy Spirit does. He, and it's he, who, the third person of the Trinity, he dwells with us and is in us. Verse 17. The Holy Spirit is the abiding presence of God with and in believers. God's not just up there in heaven somewhere, but because of the Holy Spirit, God abides in his children. He teaches us all things. Verse 26, the Holy Spirit is the Spirit of truth and our great teacher. He illumines our minds to understand the truths of the scriptures, teaching us what we need to know so that we can trust and follow the Lord. We we don't understand all things. The Holy Spirit doesn't give us the divine supernatural knowledge of calculus or quantum mechanics or nuclear physics. No. But all things we need for salvation, the Holy Spirit teaches to us through the Word of God. And the third thing that we see is that the Holy Spirit enables the apostles to be able to write the New Testament accurately. And this is part of the specific promise to the apostles of he's going to call to mind to your remembrance all the things that I've taught you. How do we know the gospels are accurate? Because the Holy Spirit reminded the got the the gospel writers. They knew um what Jesus had said. They remembered because of the work of the Holy Spirit in them. We need the Holy Spirit. It's the Holy Spirit who convicts us, who grants us repentance, who calls us to Christ, who assures us of salvation, who intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words, who causes us to call God our Father. His ministry in us is nothing less than the application and realization of our redemption in Christ. And so we need to thank God. If you know Jesus, you came to know him through the Holy Spirit. If you feel a peace in Jesus, you have that through the Holy Spirit. Thank God for him. We need him, and he is faithful. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, thank you that you are with us and that you are for us. Continue to grow us by your Holy Spirit to be more and more Christ-like. as you apply the full redemption of Christ to the fullness of our souls and lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me. That's day two, and we're going to continue on to chapter 15 tomorrow. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.