Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to our Heidelberg. Catechism Devotionals for 2026, moving from guilt through grace to gratitude. We're on question number six, just getting started. There's 129 questions in the Heidelberg Catechism. We have a long way to go. And so we're still in the first part of the catechism dealing with our guilt. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that you tell us the truth about ourselves. Oh, this world is full of salespeople, con artists, politicians, who will flatter us, tell us what we want to hear because they want something from us. You don't need anything from us. And what you ultimately want from us is ourselves. And so you tell us the truth. That we might see the truth and turn to you. So we pray, teach us today in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we've been hearing a lot of a lot of bad things about human beings and human nature. And so the next catechism question raises a question that might be an objection to this. Did God then create man so wicked and perverse? Man, if by nature we hate God and our neighbor, if by nature we are unable to keep the law of God, did God make us that way? The answer is no. Did God then create man so wicked and perverse? No. On the contrary. God created man good and in his image, that is, in true righteousness and holiness. so that he might rightly know God his Creator, heartily love him, and live with him in eternal blessedness to praise and glorify him. Let's break this down for a minute. God did not make man perverse and wicked. God made man good, but not unchangeably good. Good and yet subject to change. Good and yet given a free will. How do we define good? How do we define what good is? Well, it's defined here. First of all, being made in the image of God Second of all, having true righteousness, and third, having true holiness, and then fourth, having knowledge, right knowledge, knowledge of God the Creator. And that in a knowledge of God the Creator we might love him and we might live with him forever to praise and glorify him. God made Adam and Eve in the garden in fellowship with him. with himself in his image. How do we know this? Well the Bible tells us the very first chapter. Very first thing we hear about people in the Bible is not how bad we are. Sometimes I think Christians begin with, oh people are so bad. That's true. But back up the story, and before people were oh so bad, people were created actually very good. Very good. Here's Genesis one, starting in verse 26. Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness, and let them have dominion. over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit, you shall have them for food. And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food, and it was so. And God saw everything that He had made, and behold it was Very good. And there was evening and there was morning the sixth day. This is how God made things in the beginning. He made people in his own image, after his likeness. What does that mean? It means we're holy. What does holy mean? It means we're set apart by God and for God, unique in all creation. None of the rest of creation is holy in this way. Made by God and for God. We're made righteous, upright, having the character of God, and we're made to have dominion over everything. That means we have to know, but you can't take dominion over The creation without knowing and understanding. And where would that knowledge come from? It would come from God the Creator. So we would know God the Creator and we would know His creation through Him. And God gave us food. And God said at the end, it is very good. That's how God made people in the very beginning. And you know, people still bear God's image. Because even years and years and centuries later, after the fall, We still read in Psalm 8 that people are made in the image of God because we see the same crown with glory and honor and dominion over the works of your hands. Here's Psalm 8. Verses four to six. What is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him? Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, and crowned him with glory and honor You have given him dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet. This is the way God intended it to be. This is the way God created man in the beginning. In his vast universe, you go out at night, you look at the stars, you see countless stars on on a clear moon moonless night when there's like a new moon and and there's no clouds in the sky, you can see so many stars, you feel so small. But God made us uniquely in his image, a little lower than the heavenly beings, crowned among all his creation, crowned with glory and honor and given dominion. That's the original intention of God for humanity. And then Ecclesiastes 7. 29 says, see this alone I have found, that God made man upright, but they have sought out many schemes. And that's where the problem comes in. If God made us so good, very good, upright in his image, with knowledge and righteousness and holiness and dominion over the creatures. How in the world did things get so bad? Because we sought out many schemes. The first scheme was that serpent coming into the garden and telling us, hey, God's holding that on you. Don't you want to get what God's holding back from you? That is seeking out many schemes. So all this scripture reinforces and supports what our catechism question says. Did God then create man so wicked and perverse? No. On the contrary, God made man good, and in his image, that is, in true righteousness and holiness so that he might rightly know God the Creator, heartily love him, and live in eternal blessedness to praise and glorify him. Jesus came to restore us. to what God originally intended. Jesus is the second Adam. He's the perfect man because he comes into the world the way that God originally created man. He shows us what a real man looks like. And he restores us in himself. And that's the gospel. That's where this whole thing is going. We're getting there one step at a time. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God, thank you so much that you made us in your image. What an amazing, amazing thing that we bear the image of God. That we have knowledge. We know things that are true about you and about your creation because we are made in your image. We know right and wrong because we're made in your image. We have a sense of holiness, a sense of worship, a sense of the divine uh uh a an attraction to transcendent eternal spiritual things because we're made in your image. We're given glory and honor and yet we've perverted all these things because we've sought out many schemes. And so the righteousness is perverse and we call wicked things good and good things wicked. The holiness is perverse and we worship and serve the created things rather than the creator who is forever praised. We need you to make us right, to make us holy and righteous and knowledgeable and to have dominion again. And we know that you are doing this in Jesus Christ. This is the mission that you are on in Jesus Christ. And we thank you for it in his name. Amen. Amen. Well thanks again for joining me for another Heidelberg Catechism Devotional. As always, we'll respond to God's truth with worship. Praise to the Lord the Almighty, Jesus. Come must all pray for eat thy help and thou visha. Here now to intend all join Please remember that Christy the Lord who owe all things through wonders we rain. Sheltered be under his wings, yes, such at least the day. Have a thing. How are you talking about riot? Praise be the Lord to prosper thy work and defend me. Surely his hands and mercy gives me a new body. Almighty Candle if we do the love he be friend. Praise you the Lord that all that gives me a soul. All that I've lived with common with previous people Let be a man down from his people Okay, by me for our real chosen. Oh my king of creation. Oh my soul praying for eat thy health and salvation. All you here now to intend to join me Pleasant.