Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our fifteenth week together, walking through the Heidelberg Catechism, this wonderful, almost five hundred year old set of questions and answers that come out of the German Reformation, and they're given to us to teach us The gospel, specifically, how do we have gospel comfort as they open with that famous question, what is your only comfort in life and in death? And the answer is that I am not my own, but I belong body and soul and life and in death to my faithful Savior, Jesus. Jesus Christ. And it goes on from there. So we're looking for gospel comfort, and there's a pathway that leads to gospel comfort. It leads from guilt through grace to gratitude. On the road of grace, we need to know what Jesus has done for our salvation, what we need to believe in order to be a Christian, and what we need to believe in order to be a Christian is summarized in the Apostles. Creed and that's where we are. We're working our way through the uh propositions, the the um the statements of the Apostles' Creed as the essence and the core of Christian doctrine. Let's pray that's what is helpful. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your great love for us, for your faithfulness, unfailingly faithful in your Lord God. Thank you. Please be with us as we look to your word, as we look to Christ, as we look to your spirit. Please teach us and please grow us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. So the Apostles section of the Heidelberg Catechism is no longer section. It goes back to question number 23, which was, what are these articles? The articles of the Christian faith? As I said, they're summarized for us in the Apostles' Creed. This is intentional because the Reformation was not inventing a new form of Christianity. The Reformation was recovering the original beliefs of the church from the very beginning. Summarized in the Apostles' Creed. I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary. Suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried. He descended into hell. On the third day he arose from the dead, he ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. And where we are right now is in the second line of the fourth article was crucified, dead, and buried. And last week we were working our way through this. What does it mean that he suffered under Pontius Pilate, or why did he suffer under Pontius Pilate as a judge? That was last week Monday. Answer, though innocent. Christ was condemned by an earthly judge, and so he freed us from the severe judgment of God that was to fall on us. He was condemned in our place. In our place, condemned he stood, sealed our pardon with his blood. That's a wonderful line from the Hamel, hallelujah, what a Savior. Question 39 then asks, does it have a special meaning that Christ was crucified and did not die in another way? And the answer is yes. Thereby I am assured that he took upon himself the curse which lay on me, for a crucified one was cursed by God. So condemned by Pontius Pilate and cursed by being hung. on a cross as our substitute savior. And then question 40 asks, why was it necessary for Christ to humble himself even unto death? And the answer that we looked at on Friday was, because of the justice and truth of God, satisfaction for my sins could be made in no other way than by the death of the Son of God. Only the Son of God is worthy enough to shed his blood to pay for all the sins of all of God's people. The blood of goats and bulls can't take away sin. And he did so willingly to satisfy divine justice and fulfill all truth. So today we come to question 41. A simple question, but a profound one. Why was he buried? And the answer is that his burial testified that he had really died. Think about it. He was put into a tomb and sealed under guard. so that we could know that he really was dead. Really was dead. We read about this in the Gospels. Here it is in Luke 23, verses 50 to 56. Now there was a man named Joseph from the Jewish town of Arimathea. He was a member of the council that's the Sanhedrin, the ruling council that had condemned Jesus to death. He was a member of the council, a good and righteous man who had not consented to their decision and action, and he was looking for the kingdom of God. This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus Then he took it down, and wrapped it in a linen shroud, and laid him in a tomb cut in stone, where no one had ever yet been laid. It was the day of preparation, and the Sabbath was beginning. The women who had come with him from Galilee followed and saw the tomb and how his body was laid, then they returned and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment. So this is the record of what happened. He was buried in a known tomb, the tomb of Joseph. of Arimathea, who was not an obscure guy. He was a member of the council, which means he was wealthy, he was influential, he had a good reputation as a good and righteous man. He had not gone along with the actions of the council in unrighteously condemning Jesus to death. He asks for the body. He's given the body. He wraps him in a shroud. He lays him in a tomb cut in stone that had never been used before. Very specific location of that tomb, which is powerful. Um 1 Corinthians 15, I should say, not thirteen, verses one to four, Paul writing, this is actually the first account in the New Testament of the resurrection of Jesus, because 1 Corinthians is one of the first letters. written. It actually predates all of the gospels. But First Corinthians 15, 1 to 4 says, Now I would remind you, brothers of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you, unless you believed in vain. for I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures. So Paul testifying to the truth, something of first importance, he includes the burial of Christ. He died for our sins according to the scriptures. He was buried. He was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. Do the scriptures of the Old Testament speak of the burial of Christ? Well yes they do. In Isaiah 53, which we looked at part of this on Good Friday, in Isaiah 53, verses 8 and 9, it says, by oppression and judgment He was taken away, and as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off from the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people, and they made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death. although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. So this, Isaiah 53, 9 is telling us very specifically. that the Messiah to come, the one who takes the transgression, is stricken for the transgression of God's people, is going to have a grave of a wicked man. He was condemned to death under justice, a miscarriage of justice, but he was that's how he was condemned. But he'll be with a rich man in his death. He's in a rich man's tomb. That's what that means. He's got a rich man's tomb, which would not normally be a something that someone who's given a grave with the wicked would be so buried with someone rich. That just doesn't make any sense. But Jesus, condemned to death, condemned as wicked, dies on the cross between two thieves. That's where his initial grave is, the cross. And then he's taken down and put into the tomb of a rich man where probably there were other rich people around because that's kinda how burial works. If you've got a nice stone cut tomb in a nice garden area, probably with a bunch of rich people around. But in a rich man's tomb. And one final scripture from Acts thirteen, verses twenty-six to thirty. This is Paul on his missionary journey. He's preaching in Pisidian Antioch. So this is on his first missionary journey. And he's preaching to a synagogue of Jewish people in the town of Pisidian Antioch, which is in present-day Turkey. He says, Brothers, Sons of the family of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, to us has been sent the message of this salvation. For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, because they did not recognize him, nor understand the utterances of the prophets, which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him. And though they found in him no guilt worthy of death, they asked Pilate to have him executed. And when they had carried out all that was written of him, they took him down from the tree and laid him in a tomb But God raised him from the dead. Love Paul's sermon here. These Jewish leaders on the Sanhedrin, they did not understand What they had read in the prophets, even though they were read every Sabbath, even though they memorized large portions of them, even though they taught them, they didn't understand them. And by not understanding them, they ended up being used by God to fulfill those scriptures by condemning him, specifically Isaiah 53 and Psalm 22. They'd carried out all that was written of him. The scriptures testified to what needed to happen to Jesus. And they carried it out to the letter, to the word. They took him down from the tree and then they laid him in a tomb. And that again you can hear here what Paul's saying is he was really dead. He was laid in a tomb, but God raised him from the dead. And that brings us back to our catechism question. Why was he buried? His burial testified that he had really died. pray. Oh Lord God, thank you for sending your son. And Lord Jesus, thank you for coming to save us. Lord, you were buried in a tomb. And the tomb of a wealthy and influential man, a tomb that was identified clearly, and a tomb that was empty on that first resurrection day, on that first resurrection day morning. We thank you for your death in our place, that you were truly dead. You remained under the power of death for a time for us and for our salvation, but you burst the bonds of death, and you rose again in victory. in eternal life. And we praise you for that. Help us to trust you and to believe you through every season of life, knowing that you have overcome everything, including all of our sin and death itself. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well let's respond now to what we've learned from God's Word by singing, Lo in the grave he lay. He arose. He arose. A great Easter hymn that talks about the grave. No She calls my laws Our common we are not in the club. Oh yeah, I'm not sure what you're doing.