Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Today we've come to the end. of Luke 22, looking at verses 54 to 71 and asking, why did Peter deny Jesus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gift of your Son, our Savior. Lord Jesus, thank you for coming to this world to save us from our sin and from death. And condemnation. Holy Spirit, please draw our hearts to Christ and please teach us from your word today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 22, 54 to 71. Then they seized him and led him away, bringing him into the high priest's house. And Peter was following at a distance. And when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat down among them Then a servant girl, seeing him as he sat in the light and looking closely at him, said This man also was with him. But he denied it, saying, Woman, I do not know him. And a little later someone else saw him and said, You also are one of them. But Peter said, Man, I am not. And after an interval of about An hour. Still another insisted, saying, Certainly this man also was with him, for he too is a Galilean. But Peter said, Man, I do not know what you are talking about And immediately while he was still speaking, the rooster crowed, and the Lord turned and looked at Peter, and Peter remembered the saying of the Lord, how he had said to him, Before the rooster crows to day, you will deny me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly. Now, the men who were holding Jesus in custody were mocking him as they beat him. They also blindfolded him and kept asking him, Prophesy, who is it that struck you? And they said many other things against him, blaspheming him. When day came, the assembly of the elders of the people gathered together both chief priests and scribes, and they led him away to their council. And they said, If you are the Christ, tell us. But he said to them, if I tell you, you will not believe, and if I ask you, you will not answer. From now on, the Son of Man shall be seated at the right hand of the power of God. So they all said, Are you the Son of God, then? And he said to them, You say that I am. Then they said, What further testimony do we need? We have heard it from our own lips. Peter Isn't it strange that Peter would go from swinging his sword and cutting off the ear of the servant of the high priest to denying three times that he knew Jesus? In such a short period of time, in one evening, Peter went from bold boasting to sword swinging to vehement denying. Why? Well, we cannot know the answer completely as scripture doesn't fully explain Peter's inner thought life, but but we can draw a consistent thread through several of Peter's actions that led up to the denials. First of all, When Jesus told Peter he was going to be betrayed and crucified, Peter responded in Matthew 16, 22, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall never happen to you. And then second, when Jesus predicted Peter's denials of him, Peter responded, Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you. That's in Matthew 26, 35, and Mark 14. And then third, when the chief priest came to the temple with the guard, uh sorry, came with the temple guard to the garden to arrest Jesus. Peter drew out his sword, he struck the servant of the high priest on the head, he severed his ear, but rather than welcoming his support, Jesus told Peter to put away his sword, and he healed Malchus Peter strikes me as a man of decisive action, who was not accustomed to being told what to do or to being put in his place. When Jesus corrected him or predicted things he disliked, he had no problem arguing with his Lord and telling him no. But when he was put in his place, when his decisive action was rejected, he didn't know what to do. He wanted to follow Jesus on his own terms. And if his terms would not be accepted, he wasn't sure he wanted to have anything to do with the Lord. Does any of this sound familiar? How often do we expect God to accept the service we are willing to offer instead of being willing to offer the service he requires? How often do we expect God to bless our decisions rather than seeking to truly submit to His will? I think that when Jesus looked at Peter, and Peter remembered the Lord's prediction in verse 61, he realized what he had been doing. He realized the way he had treated his Lord, and that's why he went away and wept bitterly. Now, thankfully, this is not the end of the story for Peter. Will we realize how sinful and selfish our approach to Jesus has been? Will we weep for our selfish, sinful attitude And will we seek to truly follow our Lord instead of trying to lead him in the way we think he should go? Alright, well let's turn our attention to the Psalms now. Today we're looking at Psalm 144. Blessed be the Lord, my rock, who trains my hands for war and my fingers for battle. I wonder if this is one of Peter's favorite Psalms. He is my steadfast love and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield, and he in whom I take refuge, who subdues peoples under me. O Lord, what is man that you regard him, or the Son of Man that you think of him? Man is like a breath. His days are like a passing shadow. Bow your heavens, O Lord, and come down. Touch the mountains so that they smoke. Flash forth the lightning and scatter them. Send out your arrows and route them. Stretch out your hand from on high. Rescue me and deliver me from the many waters, from the hand of foreigners whose mouths speak lies. and whose right hand is the right hand of falsehood, I will sing a new song to you, O God, upon a ten-stringed harp. I will play to you, who gives victory to kings, who rescues David, his servant, from the cruel sword. Rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners, whose mouths speak lies, and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. May our sons in their youth be like plants full grown. Our daughters be like corner pillars cut for the structure of a palace May our granaries be full, producing all kinds of produce. May our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields. May our cattle be heavy with young, suffering no mishap or failure in bearing. May there be no cry of distress in our streets. Blessed, blessed are the people to whom such blessings fall. Blessed are the people whose God is the Lord. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, you truly are our shield, our strength. Lord Jesus, you're the Redeemer who's rescued us from all of our enemies. You've defeated, you've crushed all of our enemies. Sin, death, hell, the devil. the world. You've overcome them all. And you lead us into victory. But it's not a victory the way we would define it. It's a victory the way that matters most, the way that you define it. You won that victory by laying down your life, and you call us to be fruitful, abundantly fruitful by laying down our lives too. So help us to answer that call and to submit to you and your wisdom and your leadership and not to try to take things into our own hands, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. Tomorrow we're going to move on to Luke 23. Hope you can join me then. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.