Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad to be with you again as we're continuing our walk. through the four Gospels. We're in the ninth chapter of Luke, our 24th week together in the Gospels. And today we're going to be looking at Luke 9, 28 to 48. And asking this hard question, why are we so blind to the truth sometimes? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for this time we can spend in your word. Please teach us and lead us in the truth. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 9, 28 to 48. Now about eight days after these sayings he took with him Peter and John and James and went up on a mountain to pray. And as he was praying, the appearance of his face was altered, and his clothing became dazzling white. And behold, two men were talking with him, Moses and Elijah, who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. Now Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep, but when they became fully awake, they saw his glory, and the two men who stood with him And as the men were parting from him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good that we are here. Let us make three tents, one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah, not knowing what he said. And as he was saying these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud And a voice came out of the cloud saying, This is my son, my chosen one. Listen to him. And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent and told no one in those days anything of what they had seen. On the next day, when they had come down from the mountain, a great crowd met him, and behold, a man from the crowd cried out Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only child. And behold, a spirit seizes him and suddenly cries out. It convulses him so that he foams at the mouth. and shatters him, and it will hardly leave him. And I begged your disciples to cast it out. But they could not Jesus answered, O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here. While he was coming, the demon threw him to the ground and convulsed him, but Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit. and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father, and all were astonished at the majesty of God But while they were all marveling at everything he was doing, Jesus said to his disciples, Let these words sink into your ears. The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men, but they did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them, so that they might not perceive it And they were afraid to ask him about this saying. An argument arose among them as to which of them was the greatest, but Jesus Knowing the reasoning of their hearts, took a child and put him by his side, and said to them, Whoever receives this child in my name receives me. And whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For he who is least among you is the one who is great. So why are we so blind to the truth sometimes? Do you ever just shake your head at the disciples when you read the gospels? They just don't seem to get it, do they? But before we're too hard on the thick-headed disciples, we need to think about our own lives. How many times have we just not seen the truth of what now we see as obvious? And remember that these same disciples, who are so clueless here, would go on to spread the gospel farther in a single generation than any other group of disciples in church history. From Spain to India and Ethiopia and Rome, so what makes the difference? Why is it that What we didn't understand as spiritual truths, we now do. And how is it that the disciples could be so blind to the truth here and so insightful as to write the New Testament years later? Well, we don't need to guess. The Bible tells us in verse 44, Luke tells us that the disciples did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them, so that they might not perceive it. We can take this verse and add it to some other scripture, like 1 Corinthians 2. 14, that tells us the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. or 2 Corinthians 4, verses 3 and 4. And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. And so here are the conclusions we can draw. First of all, when we don't see or understand spiritual things, it's because we're being kept from understanding them. Satan actively blinds the minds of unbelievers, but God also sovereignly chooses to keep us from seeing the truth until he chooses to reveal it. And second of all, we need the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds, to understand spiritual truths. Knowing these two truths is vital because it keeps us humble and helps us have compassion on others. What we understand of God's truth has been revealed to us by God. Unbelievers are in rebellion against God as we once were. But they're also being kept in the dark. They need our sympathy and our prayers, not our arrogant anger and judgment. And so we should also be sure to give all glory to God. and take absolutely no credit for ourselves for anything we do understand of the Lord and His ways. Amen. Let's go to Psalm 119. We're going to be looking at the first forty verses. Today. It's the first five stanzas. Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord. Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart, who also do no wrong but walk in his ways. You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently. Oh, that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes, then I shall not be put to shame, having my eyes fixed on all your commandments. I will praise you with an upright heart when I learn your righteous rules. I will keep your statutes. Do not utterly forsake me. How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. With my whole heart I seek you. Let me not wander from your commandments. I have stored up your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Blessed are you, O Lord. Teach me your statutes. With my lips I declare all the rules of your mouth. In the way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches I will meditate on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways. I will delight in your statutes. I will not forget your word. Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live and keep your word. Open my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of your law. I am a sojourner on the earth Hide not your commandments from me. My soul is consumed with longing for your rules at all times. You rebuke the insolent accursed ones who wander from your commandments Take away from me scorn and contempt, for I have kept your precepts, your testimonies. Even though princes sit plotting against me, your servant will meditate on your statutes, your testimonies are my delight. They are my counselors. My soul clings to the dust. Give me life according to your word. When I told of my ways, you answered me, Teach me your statutes. Make me understand the way of your precepts, and I will meditate on your wondrous works. My soul melts away for sorrow. Strengthen me according to your word. Put false ways far from me, and graciously teach me your law. I've chosen the way of faithfulness. I've set your rules before me. I cling to your testimonies, O Lord. Let me not be put to shame. I will run in the way of your commandments when you enlarge my heart. Teach me, O Lord, the way of your statutes, and I will keep it to the end. Give me understanding that I may keep your law. and observe it with my whole heart. Lead me in the path of your commandments, for I delight in it. Incline my heart to your testimonies and not to selfish gain. Turn my eyes from looking at worthless things and give me life in your ways. Confirm to your servant your promise that you may be feared. Turn away the reproach that I dread, for your rules are good. Behold, I long for your precepts. In your righteousness, give me life. Let's pray. Lord, we need you to teach us. We need you to open our eyes. We need you to incline our hearts. We need you to lead us in the way we should go. Because by your grace, we deeply and sincerely desire to honor you with our lives, but we we see the inconsistencies, we see the ignorance, we see the waywardness. And so we cry out to you, teach us, enlighten us, turn us, incline us, direct us in your ways. And for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much for joining me again, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.