Good morning and welcome to our Heidelberg Catechism Devotionals. I am Pastor Jason Van Demel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. I am so glad that you have joined us here on our 15th week exploring this wonderful nearly 500-year-old set of questions and answers put together in Hutlenburg, Germany during the Reformation. It's leading us to gospel comfort. From guilt through grace to gratitude. And today we come to question 42 as we're thinking about the suffering and death of Christ and the implications that that has for us. How does that bring us comfort? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Your word is rich and true, infallible, inerrant, and it is centered on Christ. It shows us who Jesus is and what our hope is in him. It gives us strong comfort in your gospel. We pray that you would Teach us from your word, through this tool of the Heidelberg Catechism, that your word and your gospel would be knit to our hearts and minds and bring us strong assurance and comfort in Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, we're in question 42 today, but we'll deliver a review first. So just as a reminder, we are here In the section of the Heidelberg Catechism that deals with the Apostles' Creed. It is the longest section of the Heidelberg Catechism because it's exploring what we need to believe. In order to really have salvation in Christ and to be able to enjoy this gospel comfort. So this is all in the grace section of the Heidelberg Catechism. It began back on question twenty-three. What are these articles? The articles of the Christian faith. And it gives us the Apostles' Creed with 12 articles identified. I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit. born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried. And that's where we are right there, particularly hanging out on that word buried. He descended into hell. That'll be coming up on Monday of next week. On the third day, he arose from the dead. The next week we get to resurrection. He ascended into heaven. He sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in a holy Catholic Christian church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. So within this section of Crucified, Dead and Buried, we've been asking these questions. Question 40, why was it necessary for Christ to humble himself even unto death? It's because of the justice and truth of God. Satisfaction for our sins could be made in no other way than by the death of the Son of God. When we looked at this, we really considered carefully that there was no other way. For us to be saved, but by the death of the Son of God. So the next question then becomes why was he buried? And this is what we looked at last time. His burial testified That he had really died. Today we get a practical question related to us and our lives. And the question is: since Christ has died for us, Why do we still have to die? You ever thought about that? I mean Christ has overcome sin and death and hell. He's won the victory. He's brought eternal life to light. Then why do we still have to die? The answer is, our death is not a punishment for our sins, but it puts an end to sin. and is an entrance into eternal life. That is, it puts an end to our body of sin, our pattern of sinning by being in this flesh, and it is an entrance into eternal life. So what scripture supports this? Well, John 5. 24, Jesus himself says, Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. This is what the Lord Jesus Himself said. If you have heard the word of Christ, and you believe in Christ, you believe in God the Father, you believe in in the gospel. You do not come into judgment. Your death is not a judgment for your sin. Jesus took all the judgment for your sin on the cross. But you've passed already from death to life So whatever else is happening at the death of a believer, it's not judgment. It's not even really ultimately death, but it is rather a putting away of the body of sin and an entering into eternal life Philippians 1, 22 to 23, Paul thinks about this in regards to his own life. Paul's in prison. He's writing to the church in Philippi from prison. He doesn't know what's going to happen to him. He doesn't know if he's going to be released or if he's going to be executed. He doesn't know. But he says this, for to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose, I cannot tell I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better. Far better So Paul knows that if when he dies, it's not going to be judgment, it's not going to be death, it's going to be a departure from this life. and a being with Christ forever. And our last scripture for today is 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 9 to 10, where God tells us this, for God has not destined us for wrath. But to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with Him Isn't that wonderful? We are Christ's. And so when he dies for us, even if we are asleep, that's the New Testament word for when a believer dies in the Lord, you fall asleep in the Lord. Whether we're awake or asleep, whether we're in this flesh or in the grave, we are with Christ and we have salvation. through our Lord Jesus Christ. Now this is real gospel comfort in the face of something that we are going to face someday, and that is death. Since Christ has died for us, why do we still have to die? Our death is not a payment for our sins, but it puts an end to sin and an entrance into eternal life Let's pray. Father in heaven, you have saved us. You have made us your own. You have passed us from death to life. You have passed us from condemnation to adoption. You are good. And faithful. And if we are in Christ by faith, if we've trusted in you, we never are condemned. We are never judged because Christ took it all upon himself. Instead, we pass from this life into your presence, out of a body of sin, into the bliss of glory with you. Thank you for that promise and that hope. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, next time on Friday, we're going to continue thinking about the death of Christ and what that means for us before we turn our attention next week to his descent into hell. and then his resurrection from the dead. Hope you can join us for that. Let's respond now to God's truth by worshiping him together in song. The darkness Comforts flee Help the helpless able. So there's weird in the It's colon and thou lies little day. Her choice could give me. Oh, thou who changes a bideway. Every passing now What but God creates can for the temptation My guidelines they can be. Crowd and sunshine over. I be in no way. And she flash Ham no way that she is no bitter. Where great thy victory I try. They are still there to come out. Hold out the cross, before my closing eyes. Shine through the blue, point into the sky. And the things shadows sleep in life in the door. Maybe you mean