Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. From Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Today we are in John 2, here at the end of week 31. We're going to be asking, why did Jesus turn water into wine? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and for your son. Thank you so much for the privilege of being able to meet with you each day together to study your word, to seek your face. Please speak to us. Please show us Christ more clearly and his will for us that we might love him and follow him better. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, well, John chapter 2. On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples. When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. And Jesus said to her, Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come. His mother said to the servants, Do whatever he tells you. Now there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding twenty or thirty gallons, Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water. And they filled them up to the brim. And he said to them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast. So they took it. When the master of the feast tasted the water now become wine, and did not know where it came from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew The master of the feast called the bridegroom and said to him, Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine But you have kept the good wine until now. This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee, and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him. After this he went down to Capernaum with his mother and his brothers and his disciples, and they stayed there for a few days. The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. In the temple he found there those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons and the money changers sitting there. And he made a whip of cords and drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and oxen, and he poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. And he told those who sold pigeons, Take these things away. Do not make my father's house a house of trade. His disciples remembered that it was written, Zeal for your house will consume me. So the Jews said to him, What sign do you show us? for doing these things. Jesus answered them, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The Jews then said, It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days? But he was speaking about the temple of his body. When, therefore, he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the scriptures and the word that Jesus had spoken. Now, when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs he was doing But Jesus, on his part, did not entrust himself to them, because he knew all people, and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man. So, as we've been saying, the Gospel of John has a lot of unique material, and this turning water into wine is a unique to the Gospel of John. It's not found in Matthew, Mark, or Luke. And John makes it very clear this is the first miraculous sign. that Jesus did. Changing water into wine at a wedding in Cana in Galilee. So it's the first, it's only recorded here in John, and it's very different compared to Jesus's other miracles. It's not a healing. or a demonic exorcism, so it didn't restore someone to health or life or set someone free from Satan's tyranny. It was not a powerful sign of Jesus' command over the forces of nature like calming a storm or even walking on water. In fact, uh as a sign, this miracle wasn't even done publicly Only Jesus' disciples knew he had done this miracle, so why do it? Why do such a relatively small, unseen, private miracle that really just affected a small group of people and most people who were affected by it didn't even know that Jesus did it. Why do it? Well first of all Turning water into wine announced the coming of his kingdom to his disciples. Jesus was showing his disciples alone first in this sort of secret miracle that his kingdom of joy peace and salvation, all of which are symbolized by wine in Scripture, was breaking into the normal order of the world. The wine represents celebration, joy, and blessing from God, which Jesus comes to bring into the world. Turning water into wine blessed the wedding and showed Jesus' support of marriage. This reason is commonly referenced at weddings. that God himself, God the Father, performed the first wedding as the first act that he did with Adam and Eve in the garden, and then Jesus as his first miracle. turned water into wine to bless a wedding. So it shows Jesus blessing and supporting marriage as God's ordained institution, even though he himself was never married. Third, turning water into wine was a blessing to the bridegroom, saving him from humiliation and bringing him honor. This is a great blessing to a close family friend, someone who is evidently close to Mary, Jesus' mother. Interestingly, we don't know whose wedding it was, the person remains nameless, but we see Jesus blessing the groom and his family. Fourth, turning water into wine was a sign of the abundant life that Jesus had come to bring. Later Jesus would say he had come in order that people might have life and have it abundantly in John 10. 10. This wine is a sign of the kingdom that comes to bring abundant life, joy, rich blessing into people's lives. And the and the fifth thing I want to note about it is that Jesus has them fill up particular types of stone water jars. We're told by John these are stone water jars for the Jewish rites of purification, and he says, fill them. To the brim. They filled them to the brim. So this represents the Old Covenant and the Old Covenant cleansing rituals. Jesus fulfills, fills up the old covenant in himself, and when he has fulfilled the old covenant, it brings forth the joy of the kingdom, full forgiveness, freedom, and joy. It's also interesting to note that John alone records the cleansing of the temple right after this turning water into wine, just a few days. later when the Passover of the Jews was at hand. John's the only one of the gospel writers to record this early cleansing of the temple. There's a later cleansing of the temple during Holy Week after Palm Sunday, but this is at an early one. Early in Jesus' ministry, maybe as many as three years before the later cleansing of the temple, Jesus cleansed the temple because he wanted all people, Jews and Gentiles, to have open access. to worship God in a fair, open manner, not in a controlled and corrupt and extorting manner like the chief priests and the rulers of the temple had set up for themselves. So here we see the turning of water into wine and the cleansing of the temple both show us that the heart of Jesus is for joy and worship, for life and prayer. Prayer, for blessing and for access to God. This is the kingdom that Jesus brings. Jesus came to bring us joy, to bring us access to God So we have these blessings and benefits because Jesus shed his blood and fulfilled the cleansing promises of the law in himself. The best way we can respond is to enjoy the blessings and the benefits, enjoy the salvation, enjoy the joy, enjoy the access to God in prayer that Jesus has opened up for us. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, thank you so much for coming into the world. You turned water into wine to show us that you love marriage and that you love people and that you want us to be joyful. And to have life and salvation and abundance. And then you cleanse the temple to show that you want us to have access to you. You want us to be able to come into the presence of God without being hindered by corrupt people seeking to extort and exploit. Father, we play, we pray that we would take advantage of the blessings that you've given us through your Son Jesus Christ, O Holy Spirit, draw our hearts in worship and fill our hearts with joy. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much for joining me again as we wrapped up week thirty-one of Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We're going to turn our attention to John chapter 3, one of the most famous chapters in the whole Bible, is on tap for Monday. I hope you can be here for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord