Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. We are getting to know our Savior better together and we're in our 35th week doing this. We've come to John chapter 11, a very powerful chapter in John's Gospel, one of the most famous, the raising of Lazarus from the dead. We're going to be asking a difficult question. I'm sure it's a question that Mary and Martha were wrestling with. And the question today is, why did Jesus wait two days before going to see Lazarus? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your faithful love to us. Your unfailing faithfulness is our source of hope and life and strength. every day of our lives. Thank you for that. Father, please write John 11 on our hearts. Please help us to rest in you. Please help us to trust in you. Please grow us in our knowledge of Christ and our love for Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. John 11, verses 1 to 27. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany. the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus, so when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then, after this, he said to the disciples, let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought he meant taking rest in sleep. Then Jesus said to them plainly, Lazarus has died. And for your sake, I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him So Thomas called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him. Now When Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him. But Mary remained seated in the house Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I I know he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and every one who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. Jesus was continually doing surprising, unexpected things, things that that challenged common sense, conventional wisdom, that challenged people's understandings of reality. He sent professional fishermen back into the heat. of the day to to fish after they had fished all night and caught nothing. He told people that he had healed, not to tell anyone about his healing. He intentionally, in John 6, drove away large crowds of followers by telling them that they needed to eat his flesh and drink his blood. And from a human perspective, sometimes these things that Jesus does simply make no sense at all. But of all of the puzzling actions of Jesus, this is surely one of the most troubling. A man Jesus loved was gravely ill. He was sent word by the sisters of this man, who were two women whom Jesus dearly loved And we're told that repeatedly in this text. Verse 5. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. We're going to be told it again later in the passage that we'll look at tomorrow. And yet. Verse 6 says, so when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. If you are the most amazing, miraculous healer in the history of the world. If you find out that a friend of yours, someone you love, someone who's close to you, someone whose family you love is sick, gravely ill, You don't wait two days before leaving. Why Jesus clearly knows what is happening. He knows when Lazarus dies, even though nobody brings word to him. He tells the disciples he's fallen asleep, and then when they don't get it, he says to them very plainly, verse 14, Lazarus has died. So why stay where he was? Couldn't he have gotten there in time to prevent that from happening? Martha clearly is obviously Deeply confused by Jesus' decision to delay his arrival, she had sent word urgently. She and Mary had sent word urgently. Can you imagine? The messenger returning. Well, what did Jesus do when you told him that Lazarus is gravely ill? Nothing. Is he coming? He didn't say Has he left yet? We don't know. And two days later, she gets word that finally he's left? And by this time he's dead, why come now? You see, he doesn't even leave to come until Lazarus is already dead. Sometimes I've heard teaching on John 11, I may have even taught this myself in the past, that Jesus waited where he was Because he wanted to show up after Lazarus had already died. Well, apparently it was a a four-day journey from where he was to where Lazarus was, because he waited two days. He waited until after he knew that Lazarus was dead, and when he got there, Lazarus had been in the tomb for four days. So it's not just that he was waiting where he was. Until after Lazarus has died. He waits until Lazarus has been in the tomb for four days. Hmm. Why? Well, when we read the rest of John eleven, which will be tomorrow, what we find out is something amazing about Jesus that we need to apply to our own lives. Whenever Jesus fails to meet our expectations and he confuses us by his actions, it is always because he has something better planned for us. Jesus never withholds good things from his children, but sometimes the good we want is not really God's best. So God will sometimes withhold the good we want, because He wants to give us the better, the better that we don't even know exists yet. So Martha comes out and she says to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. This is clearly something that she and Mary had been saying to each other because tomorrow we'll see. When Jesus meets Mary, Mary says the same thing, same exact words. If you had been here, my brother would not have died. They must have been saying that to each other. If only Jesus had been here, Lazarus would not have died They were thinking in this kind of limited way about the power of Jesus. He could have prevented Lazarus from dying. And she says, it seems almost to be polite. Right? But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. She clearly isn't expecting what's coming, the raising of Lazarus. So she's saying something about Jesus that is true, but she doesn't really fully believe it herself. When Jesus doesn't meet our expectations, when Jesus doesn't act according to the script that we have written out in our minds for him, This is very often what he's after. Getting us to do more than just say true things about him, but to really believe it. To really believe it. And so Jesus has this conversation with Martha to push her a little bit, to draw faith, real faith out of her, not just words. Right? So Jesus says to her, your brother will rise again. And Martha responds with a very theologically correct statement. I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day. Everyone's going to rise again in the resurrection at the last day. But then Jesus looks right at Martha and says, I am the resurrection and the life. Jesus isn't just a man. whose prayers God answers. Jesus says, I am the resurrection and the life. And then he says, whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Jesus is saying, I am not just a powerful man, not just a great miracle worker, not just someone God listens to. But I am the one who has power of life in myself, so that believing in me means having eternal life, even if you die. Then he asks, Martha, do you believe this? And what we get in response from Martha Beautiful. I mean Martha, we kind of remember her as the woman who was always cooking the meal and cleaning up instead of sitting at Jesus' feet. But Martha gives here one of the most beautiful and powerful professions of faith. In all the Gospels, she says, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. This is on the same level as what Peter confesses at Caesarea Philippi in Matthew 16. I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. This is the better that Martha needs. And she says it here. But once Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead, there will be no doubt in her mind that these words that she has said are actually true. Has that been true in your life? I know it's been true in my life. That sometimes I can have head theology, head knowledge. I can know that these things are true about God But when I go through a bit of hard experience, when I go through some disappointment, God didn't follow the script. God didn't answer my prayers the way I wanted them answered. God didn't do what I expected him to do. He took me down a harder road. He took me down a darker path. His light was there in the darkness. His presence was powerful in my pain. And there my faith was deepened. There I knew him better than I could have imagined beforehand. If God disappoints you, know this. Not only is he wiser than you are, but he loves you far more deeply than you can imagine And he's doing something in and through the difficulty that will be surprising even to you. Let him blow your mind. Lord Jesus, thank you for not meeting our expectations. Our expectations are so small. They're so short-term. They're so immediate focused. We're like little children. We don't understand the bigger picture. You are too wise and too good to just give us what we ask for. You don't want spoiled children who don't have faith. You want mature, fruitful believers. Make us that by your grace and for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for walking with Jesus and the Gospels. We're going to continue in John chapter 11 tomorrow. I hope you can join me for that, and I hope you do have a blessed day in the Lord.