Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Here at the end of week 36, we're at the end of John 13, looking at just three verses today, verses 36 to 38, and we're considering a challenging question, and that is why is it that we we really don't like it? When Jesus tells us what to do. Hmm. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your Son, our Savior. Lord Jesus, thank you that you are our King, our Lord, our Master, our Redeemer. But sometimes we confess that we don't like following you. We don't like doing what you tell us to do. We don't like the answers you give us sometimes to our questions. Show us that and help us repent. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So we're looking at Simon Peter and a conversation he has with Jesus here at the end of John 13. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered him, Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow me afterward. Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. You ever been shocked by how readily, how eagerly almost Peter corrects Jesus, calls him Lord? When Peter makes his great confession of faith in Matthew 16, you know, he he gets it right, nails it. You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And Jesus even says to him, Blessed are you, Simon, son of John, because flesh and blood didn't reveal this to you, but my Father who's in heaven. And then Jesus says, right after that, Jesus says, I'm going to go to Jerusalem. I'm going to be handed over to the rulers. They're going to crucify me. I'm going to rise again the third day. And Peter says, Lord, may this never happen to you. In other words, no, no way, Lord. And then Jesus, who just said how blessed Peter was, turns to Peter and says, get behind me, Satan. Peter is so quick to correct Jesus. Earlier in chapter 13, we see Jesus coming around to wash the disciples' feet. Most of the disciples don't understand it any better than Peter, but they submit to it. Peter didn't want to submit to it. You're not going to wash my feet, Lord. And then when Jesus says if I don't wash you, you have no part of me, he's like, well then wash all of me. He keeps trying to like Tell Jesus what to do, tell Jesus what not to do, tell Jesus what he's going to do and what he's not going to do. It's like, Peter, man, who's the Lord here and who's the servant? Now, it's easy. It's easy for us to sit here and quickly condemn Peter, but how often are we like him? How often do we dislike what Jesus tells us to do? Love your enemies. Pray for those who persecute you. Turn the other cheek. Submit to the governing authorities who rule over you. Pay taxes to whom taxes are due. We don't like some of the commandments of Jesus. Sometimes we distrust What the Lord is calling us to. Trust not, lean not on your own understanding, but in all your ways acknowledge him, and he will direct your paths. Are we doing that? Or do we hold back? Do we say, well, well, but I I wanna I want to lean on my own understanding and also say that I believe Jesus. Or I want to really be mad at people who are mean to me, but still say that I'm following Jesus. Do we tithe? When God tells us to give ten percent of our income and then above and beyond that as we're able? Or do we just say, well let me get all my bills paid, let me get all my expenses met, let me get my my coffee from Starbucks and my vacation fund fully funded And then if I have anything left over, I'll give a leftover, maybe 10 bucks a week, to God, because that's all I can afford. Do we talk about all I can afford, or do we talk about 10% of the first fruits, and then God will provide for our needs What about the Sabbath day? Do we remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, or do we grumble about having to get up and go to church and then we forget about God the rest of the day? God asked us to honor the marriage bed and protect the purity of the marriage bed. What do we do to defile it? With lust and Impure thoughts and actions and motives, and also the way that we treat our husbands and wives doesn't honor Christ the way that we're told to. Well, what are we going to do? What are we going to do? Maybe you're doing pretty well in all those areas. Maybe you think, actually I do tithe the first fruits. I do honor the Lord's Day. I do honor my marriage commitments. Thank you very much. What is wrong with these other Christians who don't do these things? Well, didn't Jesus tell us not to judge another one's servant? Doesn't the Bible tell us to bear patiently with one another, to bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ? It's not okay to be half-hearted and lackadaisical in our obedience, but it's also not okay to be like the Pharisee in the parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector and say, I thank you, Lord, that I'm not like other men. So when we come to Peter here, we need to take a deep breath, pray, examine our own hearts before the Lord, confess to the Lord that we do in fact resist him on a regular basis. We resist what he tells us is true. We resist what he tells us we must do. We often are guilty of saying, Lord, but so why? Well. It's the same reason why non-believers deny God or deny Christ. We have a native human desire for autonomy. We want to be in charge of our own lives. We want to be our own masters. And yet we know that Jesus Christ is Lord and He's our only Savior and our only hope. of eternal life. So we say, I want eternal life. I want forgiveness of my sins. I'll confess Jesus as Lord, but I also really kind of want to live my own life. I don't know about you, but as I look back on my life, now that I'm in my 50s, I can look back at my life and I can see that every time I've told the Lord no Every time I've resisted or turned my own way or walked away from him, I always end up in trouble and I always end up regretting what I've done and ashamed at my selfishness. The root cause is my self-entitled heart and my desire to rule my own life. Jesus was right in what he said about Peter. He was exactly right in what he said about Peter. He's right when he tells us the truth about ourselves. He's always right. That's why he's the Lord, and we're not. Let's look to Him and let's confess daily, as we even start our day, Lord, I'm tempted to take control of my life this day, but I want to follow you. And ask him for the grace by his Holy Spirit to submit to his lordship. Let's pray together. Lord Jesus, you are the Lord. You are our King. You're wise, you're holy, you're loving. You're perfect in all your ways. You never are wrong. You never are misguided in your motives. We need to trust you. We need to submit to you and we need to follow you. Help us to do so, Lord. We surrender our hearts, our minds, our lives to you. Help us to walk in your ways and follow after you and believe your word and live it out. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I pray that you have a blessed day in the Lord.