Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. On our third day of our 13th week, we come to Matthew 27, verses 45. to 66. Today we're asking, why did Jesus cry, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the privilege it is to be able to spend time in your word. We pray that you would write your word on our hearts by your Holy Spirit and build us up in our faith in Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 27, 45 to 66. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabakhthani, that is my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And some of the bystanders, hearing it, said, This man is calling Elijah. And one of them at once ran and took a sponge filled with sour wine and put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink. But the others said, Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to save him. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earth shook, and the rocks were split, the tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised. And coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, they went into the holy city and appeared to many. When the centurion and those who were with him keeping watch over Jesus, saw the earthquake and what took place, they were filled with awe and said, Truly this was the Son of God. There were also many women there, looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to him, among whom were Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee. When it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph, who was also a disciple of Jesus He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him. And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen shroud, and laid it in his own new tomb. which he had cut in the rock. And he rolled a great stone to the entrance of the tomb and went away. Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were there, sitting opposite the tomb The next day, that is, after the day of preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered before Pilate and said, Sir, we remember how that imposter said while he was still alive, After three days I will rise. Therefore, order the tomb to be made secure until the third day, lest his disciples go and steal him away and tell the people he has risen from the dead, and the last fraud will be worse than the first. Pilate said to them, You can have a guard of soldiers, go, make it as secure as you can. So they went and made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard. On the cross, in agony and despair, Jesus cried out in Aramaic, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabactani. The Romans, who were crucifying him, spoke Latin and Greek, but not Aramaic, so they had no idea what he was saying. They thought perhaps he was calling for Elijah to come down because they heard Eli, Eli. Matthew translates Jesus' words for us, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? At first glance, this seems like a pretty scandalous thing for Jesus to cry from the cross. It's, is it really possible that God would have forsaken his son at his hour of greatest need and pain? How could God forsake his only son? To understand Jesus' words, we need to understand what he was doing on the cross. On the cross, Jesus redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. Galatians 3. 13. On the cross, God made him who knew no sin to become sin for us. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. As the Son of God became sin and became a curse for us, he actually became the embodiment of our sin against God. And God's eyes are too pure to look on evil. Habakkuk 113. But God the Father didn't just look away. He actually, actively cursed and condemned his own son in our place. He punished our sin in the body of his son. His wrath and anger and justice due to us, for our rebellion, were poured out on his son, who willingly took them in our place so that we can be forgiven, redeemed, loved, and adopted by God. Jesus expressed his curse and God-forsaken state with very specific words. He cried out using the words of Psalm 22, verse 1. Psalm 22 was written by David a thousand years before Jesus was born, but it accurately describes the details of his experience in the crucifixion. It tells us of the mocking of the crowd. In verses 7 and 8, All who see me mock me. They make mouths at me. They wag their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, for he delights in him. It tells us of Jesus' weakness and incredible thirst in verse 15. My strength is dried up like a pot sherd, and my tongue sticks to my jaws. You lay me in the dust of death. It even tells us of how he was pierced with nails by Gentiles. In verse 16, For dogs encompass me. A company of evildoers encircles me. They have pierced my hands and my feet. It tells us further that Jesus had no broken bones and that the people who killed him gambled for his clothing. In verses 17 and 18, I can count all my bones. They stare and gloat over me, they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. So even in the face of being forsaken by his father, Jesus is pointing us to Scripture. where we can see every detail of what happened to him and that it was all planned and described over 1,000 years earlier by his ancestor, King David. So not only was he becoming sin for us, not only was he being cursed in our place, he was also teaching us and giving us assurance that it was all happening in God's good plan. Hallelujah. What a savior. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 64. To the choir master, a psalm of David. Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint. Preserve my life from the dread of the enemy. Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, from the throng of evildoers, who wet their tongues like swords, who aim bitter words like arrows, shooting from ambush at the blameless shooting at him suddenly and without fear. They hold fast to their evil purpose. They talk of laying snares, secretly, thinking, who can see them? They search out injustice, saying, We have accomplished a diligent search, for the inward mind and heart of a man are deep. But God shoots his arrows at them. They are wounded suddenly. They are brought to ruin with their own tongues turned against them. All who see them will wag their heads. than all mankind fears. They tell God. They tell what God has brought about and ponder what He has done. Let the righteous one rejoice in the Lord and take refuge in him. Let all the upright in heart exalt. This is a great psalm to describe the experience of Christ on the cross. as he's being so unfairly assaulted. And how God, through the resurrection, turned everything back on the heads of those who crucified Jesus, they were exposed. for the evildoers that they were, as they've been remembered for two thousand years since. And Jesus is the refuge of all who want salvation. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for giving your son. Lord Jesus, thank you for giving up your life in agony, for suffering injustice, torment, mistreatment, and the wrath of God. That we deserve for our sin. Holy Spirit, thank you for convicting us of our sin, for drawing us to Christ that we might find refuge in Him. Lord God Almighty, be glorified in our lives as we seek to worship you better and follow you better today. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for another day of walking with Jesus in the Word. You can tell we're getting close to the end of the Gospel of Matthew, just a few more days left in Matthew's Gospel, and then we'll be turning uh to the next gospel and Lord willing you'll be able to join us again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.