Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, our third day of our tenth week. Brings us to Matthew 21 and the triumphal entry. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please speak to us through your word today. Teach us by your Holy Spirit. Write your word on our hearts and help us to see and love Jesus more clearly, we pray. In his name, amen. Matthew 21, verses 1 to 22. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphag, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say the Lord needs them, and he will send them at once. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying, Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, humble, and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them. Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the ground, and others cut down branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And the crowds that went before him And that followed him were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest! And when he entered Jerusalem The whole city was stirred up saying, Who is this? And the crowd said, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth in Galilee. And Jesus entered the temple, and drove out all who sold and bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons. He said to them, It is written My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of robbers. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple Hosannah to the son of David, they were indignant. And they said to him, Do you hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes. Have you never read, out of the mouths of infants and nursing babies, you have prepared praise. And leaving them, he went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there. In the morning, as he was returning to the city, he became hungry. And seeing a fig tree by the wayside he went to it, and found nothing on it, but only leaves. And he said to it, May no fruit ever come from you again and the fig tree withered at once When the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, How did the fig tree wither at once? And Jesus answered them Truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, Be taken up and thrown into the sea, it will happen. And whatever you ask in prayer you will receive if you have faith. In reading Matthew's account of the triumphal entry, it is clear that Jesus is in full command of every detail. His instructions to his disciples regarding the donkey not only show his mastery of the situation, but also that everything he's doing is in fulfillment of Scripture, specifically Zechariah 9. 9. Beyond the entry itself, the cries of the crowds, the clearing of the temple, the opposition from Jerusalem's religious leadership, all of these are in full keeping with the purposes of Christ. First of all, the cheering of the crowds ensured that Jesus' entry as the long-awaited Messiah was properly announced and praised. Secondly, the clearing of the temple showed how Jesus was going to overthrow the corrupt, self-serving worship of the Jewish religious leaders and usher in an age of worship in spirit and in truth. as he told the woman at the well in John 4, 23 and 24. Third, the opposition of the religious leaders sets up the showdown that will lead Jesus to the cross and to our salvation. But why the fig tree? At first it doesn't seem to make any sense that Jesus would curse a fig tree for not having fruit when he was hungry, so why did he do it? Well, to put it simply, the fig tree represents Jerusalem and the religion of the temple. All show and no fruit. The fancy temple built by Herod was one of the wonders of the ancient world, but the religion practiced in it was empty and lifeless. Jesus had come to replace the fruitless worship of the temple with the true worship of God made possible by his sacrifice on the cross. In our spiritual lives, we need to be careful to avoid the curse of being like the fig tree. All full of flashy leaves, yet devoid of real fruit. In our private lives, in our walk with Christ, in our family lives, in our churches, we need to make sure there is real substance, real fruit For that, there is no substitute. We must have the gracious power of the Holy Spirit. Let's go to Psalm 49 and pray this psalm together. To the choirmaster, a psalm of the sons of Korah. Hear this, all peoples, give ear all inhabitants of the world both low and high, rich and poor together, my mouth shall speak wisdom, the meditation of my heart shall be understanding. I will incline my ear to a proverb, I will solve my riddle to the music of the lyre. Why should I fear in times of trouble, when the iniquity of those who cheat me surrounds me, those who trust in their wealth and boast of the abundance of their riches? Truly no man can ransom another? Or give to God the price of his life, for the ransom of their life is costly, and can never suffice that he should live on forever, and never see the pit For he sees that even the wise die. The fool and the stupid alike must perish and leave their wealth to others. Their graves are their homes forever their dwelling places to all generations, though they called lands by their own names, man in his pomp will not remain. He is like the beasts that perish. This is the path of those who have foolish confidence. Yet after them people approve of their boasts. Like sheep they are appointed for Sheol, death shall be their shepherd, and the upright shall rule over them in the morning. Their form shall be consumed in Sheol with no place to dwell. But God will ransom my soul from the power of Sheol, for he will receive me. Selah. Be not afraid when a man becomes rich, when the glory of his house increases, for when he dies he will carry nothing away, his glory will not go down after him. For though while he lives he counts himself blessed, and though you get praise when you do well for yourself, his soul will go to the generation of his fathers. who will never again see light. Man in his pomp, yet without understanding, is like the beasts that perish. Let's pray O Lord, if our lives are full of boasting, of a showy religiosity, of a self-righteousness, But we have no life. We have no one to ransom our lives from the pit. We have no redeemer We have no fruit in our lives, then we have nothing that will last. It's all just like the beasts that perish. It's all just temporary at best So Father, would you please work in our hearts? Thank you for Jesus, who gave his life to redeem us from the power of death, from the pit. Would you give us by your Holy Spirit real fruit in our lives that we might not boast in pomp and show, whether material or spiritual pomp and show, may we not be focused. on trying to impress others. But may our hearts be humble before you, trusting in Christ and growing in him. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope today's lesson was a blessing to you. I hope you can join us again tomorrow. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.