Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we're getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Our third day of our eighth week, and we're beginning Matthew 16, looking at verses 1 to 12 and asking, how is it that we fail to understand? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please be our teacher today. We do not want to fail to understand it so often in our lives we have. So we pray that you would speak to us through your word and write it on our hearts and lead us in the truth and show us Jesus that we might walk with him. In his name we pray. Amen. Matthew 16, verses 1 through 12, and the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and to test him, they asked him to show them a sign from heaven. He answered them, When it is evening, you say, It will be fair weather, for the sky is red. And in the morning, it will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening. You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign. but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah. So he left them and departed. When the disciples reached the other side, they had forgotten to bring any bread. Jesus said to them, Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees. And they began discussing it among themselves, saying, We brought no bread. But Jesus, aware of this, said, Oh you of little faith, why are you discussing among yourselves the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive? Do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand and how many baskets you gathered, or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you gathered? How is it that you fail to understand that I did not speak about bread? Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees. Then they understood that he did not tell them to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees. Oh, those poor, pitiful disciples. One of the arguments in favor of the authenticity of the gospels is the fact that the disciples come across so poorly. They are consistently lacking faith and understanding, making huge mistakes, and missing the point of Jesus' teaching altogether If the disciples were fabricating the Gospels to advance themselves in the world, they would have made themselves appear better, smarter, more faithful, more brave and insightful. If we're honest with ourselves, we identify with the disciples in the gospels. Like them, we often find ourselves out of step with Christ, lacking in faith and understanding, missing the point. In today's reading, it's not just the disciples who are out of step with Christ. The Pharisees and the Sadducees are also asking the wrong questions and missing the point of what Jesus is saying. Unlike the disciples, the lack of understanding from these religious leaders arises from malice and envy. The disciples, their misunderstanding comes from a lack of faith, and because they have not yet received the Holy Spirit But both the religious leaders and the disciples had the same basic problem. They focus on themselves instead of on God and his kingdom. The religious leaders knew how to interpret the weather patterns by the sky, but they could not see what was already so clear and obvious about Jesus They wanted a sign, but he had already given them so many. The disciples were thinking about bread and hunger even after the feeding of the five thousand and the feeding of the four thousand, rather than being concerned about the invasive and destructive effects. of false teachings. So what's our problem? When we fail to understand, it's the same really. We fail to understand because our thinking is preoccupied with petty earthly concerns. We're not nearly as focused on Christ and His kingdom, on God and eternity, on truth and righteousness as we should be, and so we miss. What Jesus is doing because we're constantly looking at and thinking about lesser things, watching the sky for weather, or wondering about bread, or whatever the modern equivalent of that might be, watching our stock portfolio, watching the political gamesmanship. To see what Jesus sees, we need to love what Jesus loves and live for the things that matter for eternity. All right, let's go to Psalm 38. A Psalm of David for the memorial offering. O Lord, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. For your arrows have sunk into me, and your hand has come down on me. There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation. There is no health in my bones because of my sin. For my iniquities have gone over my head. Like a heavy burden they are too heavy for me. My wounds stink and fester because of my foolishness I am utterly bowed down and prostrate. All the day I go about mourning, for my sides are filled with burning, and there is no soundness in my flesh. I am feeble and crushed. I groan because of the tumult of my heart. O Lord, all my longing is before you. My sighing is not hidden from you. My heart throbs, my strength fails, and the light of my eyes is gone out from me. My friends and companions stand aloof from my plague, and my nearest kin stand far off. Those who seek my life lay up their snares Those who seek my hurt speak of ruin and meditate treachery all day long. But I am like a deaf man, I do not hear, like a mute man who does not open his mouth. I have become like a man who does not hear, and in whose mouth there are no rebukes. But for you, O Lord, do I wait. It is you, O Lord my God, who will answer. For I said, only let them not rejoice over me who boast against me when my foot slips, for I am ready to fall. And my pain is ever before me. I confess my iniquity. I am sorry for my sin. But my foes are vigorous. They are mighty. And many are those who hate me wrongfully Those who render me evil for good accuse me because I follow after good. Do not forsake me, O Lord. O my God, be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. When we lack understanding, we often fall into sin and patterns that the Lord rebukes and that the Lord disciplines us for. And that can be hard. But also, as we saw yesterday in Psalm 37, sometimes we're just living as a child of God in a sin-plagued world, and that brings us under attack as well. So let's seek the Lord together. Heavenly Father, we need you always. We need you to give us faith to focus on the things that matter for eternity. So that we can have good understanding of your kingdom, of your purposes, of your of what your word is telling us and calling us to, and not misunderstand it, not miss it because we're being so petty. But Father, we need you as well when we've gone astray. Because we've been petty and selfish and worldly, and we've missed the mark, and we've gone astray, and you're disciplining us, and we know that we need to repent. We need you We also need you when we're under attack from the world, who hates us because we are your children, and we won't play their games or go along with their agenda. In all of these circumstances, O Lord, be our God. Be our refuge, be our teacher, be our savior, be our Lord. We look to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me again for another day of walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And I do hope as always that you have a blessed day in the Lord.