Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are learning To know our Savior better, I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. We're in John 13 now here in the middle of week 36. We've got just a few more chapters in John's Gospel to go. We're actually going to be finishing up the Gospels right before Thanksgiving, just to let you know kind of our timeline here and then we'll do something different for Thanksgiving and for Advent and Christmas to sort of round out the year. John 13, 1 to 20, we're going to be asking the question, why did Jesus wash his disciples' feet? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your Son, our wonderful Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Please teach us more about Jesus today. Help us to see him and know him better and follow him more faithfully. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. John 13, 1-20, now, before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father Having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. During supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied it around his waist, then he poured water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. He came to Simon Peter. Who said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing, you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand. Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus said to him, The one who has bathed does not need to wash except for his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not every one of you. For he knew who was to betray him. That was why he said, Not all of you are clean When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I have done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I, then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you also should do just as I have done to you. Truly, truly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. I am not speaking of all of you. I know whom I have chosen But the scripture will be fulfilled. He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me. I am telling you this now, before it takes place, that when it does take place you may believe that I am He. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me. Whoever receives me receives the one who sent me. Imagine the Lord of the universe, the creator of heaven and earth, stooping to the position of the lowest household slave. to wash the dirty, stinky feet of his disciples. Why? What was he hoping to teach or demonstrate or accomplish by this humiliating act? We do need to understand how humbling it is for Jesus to do this. Peter was actually following cultural norms and well within the sort of framework of expectations when he was shocked and outraged by what Jesus was doing. This is not appropriate behavior for a rabbi, for a master, for a Lord. to be doing to his followers, to his his servants, scandalized. So the disciples had gathered for the Passover meal, but not one of the disciples who gathered for the Passover meal was willing to wash the feet of the company. They thought it was below their dignity. They were disciples. They were students of the rabbi. Surely there should be whoever owns the house, they should have a household slave who would do this. It's below the dignity of a disciple to do such a menial task. Surely there had to be a slave around who could do it. John the Baptist, when he was on the scene, he indicated how much greater Jesus was than him. When he said, Among you stands one you do not know, even he who comes after me. the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. So John was saying, I am not worthy to wash the feet. Of this one who's coming, of this Lord, of this Messiah. I'm not worthy to take the position of the lowest household slave. Yet none of the disciples thought that that was a dignified enough task for them. They thought it was below them. It should have been such an honor to wash the feet of the Savior, that the disciples should have been falling over one another to have the privilege. To wash Jesus' feet and than also to wash the feet of all of the other disciples. But instead it's the Lord who takes it upon himself. It's the Lord who strips himself down. puts a towel around his waist, takes the basin and the towel, and humbles himself to this position, to do this for his unworthy disciples. Why did he do it? Why did he do it? First and foremost, the practical thing, it needed to be done. Before the disciples could rightly recline at table to enjoy their meal, you know, they laid on cushions sort of next to each other with their feet stretched out. uh dirty feet covered with mud and animal droppings from the streets that were muddy and full of animal droppings, like it like these need to be cleaned. You can't just have those feet laying out on the cushions, laying there right next to the food and the people. And so love means doing what needs to be done, even if it seems below you or it's not your job to do it. So the first and simple reason why Jesus did this is that it needed to be done. And in love, he did what needed to be done, even though it wasn't his job in a human way of speaking. The second thing, though, is that Jesus is teaching them something. He's showing them that they need cleansing. He's showing them that more than washing their feet, they need cleansing and they need Jesus to cleanse them. Jesus says, if I do not wash you, you have no share with me. He's not talking about their feet. He's talking about their souls, their lives. The third thing, though, is Jesus wanted to show that his cleansing of his people would only come through his being stripped and humiliated. He had to take the lowest place. He was going to take an even lower place than the household servant role of washing feet. He was going to go to a cross. He was going to be stripped naked and beaten and humiliated publicly in sight of all, in the most horrific. Not even the lowest household slave would ever want to be crucified in such a horrible way. So Jesus is showing that his cleansing of his people was going to come through him being stripped and humiliated to an extreme degree. And then the fourth thing that Jesus is demonstrating for us is how to love and how to lead. In the kingdom of Jesus, love is never cheap and leadership is never self-promoting. He was setting up an example for his disciples to follow. The kingdom model of Jesus is never about towering yourself over others, but it's always one about lowering yourself down for the sake of others. You don't lord it over, you serve under those you are leading. Our Lord was willing not only to wash the filthy feet of his selfish and sometimes clueless disciples, but he was willing to go to the cross. And he did it for you, and he did it for me, if we are his. He went to the lowest possible depths in order to raise us up with him to the highest possible height. He did it because it needed to be done. He did it because he loved us that much. Washing feet was a sign of that love and a lesson for us to learn about how to love one another, just like Jesus does to us. So the question for us really is going to be, have we received the cleansing of Jesus? Have we realized how low he stooped to wash us? And will we learn the lesson and follow in his footsteps and lower ourselves for the sake of others? Let's pray Father in heaven, thank you for such a servant savior. Lord Jesus, you went to the lowest depth, even death on a cross, to save us. May we never think that certain things are below us Or undignified or improper because we have too much self-respect. Let us lay aside. Those petty considerations and love from the heart, even as we have been freely loved. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I hope you benefited from today's devotional as always, and I hope you can join me again tomorrow as we continue in John 13. Here on Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. Have a blessed day in the Lord.