Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 11th week together in the Gospels here in 2025. We're going to be taking a look today at Matthew 22, verses 23 to 46. And we are asking the question, why are we always trying to shrink God? Why are we always trying to shrink God? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It shows us who you are. Exposes who we are. We need your word, and we need your son. Would you please reveal your son more deeply to us through your word today in Jesus' name? Amen. Matthew 22, starting in verse 23, the same day Sadducees came to him who say that there is no resurrection. And they asked him a question, saying, Teacher, Moses said, if a man dies having no children, his brother must marry the widow and raise up offspring for his brother Now there were seven brothers among us. The first married and died, and having no offspring, left his wife to his brother. So to the second and third, down to the seventh. After them all the woman died. In the resurrection, therefore, of the seven, whose wife will she be? For they all had her. But Jesus answered them, You are wrong. Because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God? I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? He is not God of the dead, but of the living and when the crowd heard it, they were astonished at his teaching. But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together, and one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question to test him. Teacher What is the great commandment in the law? And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment, and the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets Now, while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? They said to him, The son of David. He said to them, How is it then that David in the spirit calls him Lord? saying, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son? And no one was able to answer him a word, nor from that day did any one dare to ask him any more questions. We human beings. are always trying to bring God down to our level, to make him more manageable. Man-made pagan religions create gods that look and act very much like powerful and somewhat spoiled humans Voltaire said, If God has made man in his image, we have returned him the favor. In this passage we see the Sadducees and the Pharisees both trying to shrink God down to their level. The Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection and denied many of the supernatural aspects of God's rule over creation, including angels. So Jesus told them that they were ignorant of the scriptures and of the power of God, and then told them that believers in the resurrection will be like the angels, thus confronting both of their God-shrinking errors at once. The Pharisees tried to shrink God by making God's law a matter of a list of rules, hundreds of regulations to keep daily. But God's law is both simpler and so much larger than the Pharisees' list of regulations by pointing to the heart of the law, loving God. and loving your neighbor as yourself, Jesus clarified God's righteous standard and showed how small and petty the Pharisees' attempts of obedience were Then, after Jesus corrected both the Sadducees and the Pharisees, he challenged their shrunken view of the Messiah. The Messiah was not merely the Son of David, as they thought, but was actually David's Lord. We we need to examine the ways in which we are tempted to reduce God, to bring him down to a manageable size. Do we deny his absolute sovereignty over everything, including salvation? Do we deny his absolute holiness? Do we deny the eternal nature of his justice? Do we deny his rule over every detail of our lives? Do we fail to give him thanks, the thanks that he is due as God Almighty? In whatever ways we are tempted to shrink God, we need to repent. We need to allow scripture to correct and inform our view of Him. And the Gospels and the Psalms are a great place to get a truer picture of our great God. So let's turn to Psalm 52. Written to the choir master, a maskil of David, when Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul, David has come to the house of Ahimelech. Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man? The steadfast love of God endures all the day Your tongue plots destruction. Like a sharp razor, you worker of deceit, you love evil more than good, and lying more than speaking what is right. You love all words that devour, O deceitful tongue, but God will break you down forever. He will snatch and tear you from your tent. He will uproot you from the land of the living. The righteous shall see and fear, and shall laugh at him, saying, See the man who would not make God his refuge, but trusted in the abundance of his riches, and sought refuge in his own destruction But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever. I will thank you forever, because you have done it. I will wait for your name, for it is good, in the presence of the godly. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, we live in a world full of people who are liars, who are God shrinkers in their minds and hearts. who are deceitful manipulators of the truth. And such were we before you changed us from the inside out. Such are we still tempted to be. When we let our flesh get hold of us. But you are eternal and unchanging. Your steadfast love endures all the day. It is our hope, our foundation, that you are great, almighty, awesome, infinite. In power, in justice, and holiness. But you're also good, tender-hearted, compassionate, patient, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love. We need you, the real God, to be our Father, to be our Lord, today and always. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks again for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you, and I hope you'll join us again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.