Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our second day of week two, and we're in Matthew chapter four taking a look at the temptation of Jesus. Right after he was baptized by John and the River Jordan, which we looked at yesterday. He's driven out into the wilderness to be tempted. Let's ask God's help as we turn to this part of His Word today. Heavenly Father, please speak to us through Matthew 4. Please help us to see what you would have us learn from the temptations of Jesus and the way that He overcame the devil. We pray this in His name. Amen. Matthew four. Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights he was hungry. And the tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of God Command these stones to become loaves of bread. But he answered, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Then the devil took him to the Holy City and set him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written. He will command his angels concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. Jesus said to him, Again, it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory, and he said to him, All these I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him. So why was Jesus tempted? And how did he overcome? Those are our questions for today. Well, immediately after Jesus was baptized by John and was consecrated and anointed by the Holy Spirit as our Messiah, he's led by the Spirit into the desert wilderness where he fasted for forty days. and was tempted by the devil. That is a rough start to a ministry. There's so much we could discuss about Jesus' temptation, but right now let's focus on two questions. Why was he tempted and how did he overcome? Jesus was tempted in our place as our Savior for three main reasons. First, so he could fulfill all righteousness for us and earn a perfect human righteousness for us. Second of all, so he could suffer while tempted and become a merciful and sympathetic high priest for us. And third, it was to be the new Adam, the head of a new humanity that would be redeemed in him. Jesus had to fulfill the righteous requirements of the law in to the fullest extent, which required him to face trials just like we do. He was tempted in every way, just as we are, and yet without sin, Hebrews 4. 15 says, In doing so, he earned a perfect righteousness. He entered into our trials and our suffering. He passed a more severe test than Adam failed, thus fixing Adam's fall by reversing the curse of the Garden of Eden. And how did he do it? As our Messiah who was fully man, Jesus overcame Satan's temptation by reliance on the Holy Spirit and the Word of God. Jesus was empowered by the Holy Spirit, and he quoted Scripture to the devil. Using the sword of the Spirit to fight the enemy. Now think about this. If Jesus needed the power of the Holy Spirit and the scriptures, How foolish would we be to try to face Satan's temptations in our own wisdom to think that we could outsmart him or outreason him? We must depend upon the Holy Spirit. Spirit, and we must use the Word of God just as Jesus did. Well, now let's move our attention to Psalm 7. Psalm 7 is a shigeon of David, which he sang to the Lord concerning the words of Cush, a Benjaminite. This is when David was being slandered. O Lord, my God, in you do I take refuge. Save me from all my pursuers and deliver me, lest like a lion they tear my soul apart rending it in pieces with none to deliver. O Lord my God, if I have done this, if there is wrong in my hands If I have repaid my friend with evil or plundered my enemy without cause, let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake it. Let him trample my life to the ground and lay my glory in the dust, Selah. Arise O Lord, in your anger, lift yourself up against the fury of my enemies. Awake for me. You have appointed a judgment Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered to you, return over on high. The Lord judges the peoples. Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness, according to the integrity that is in me. O let the evil of the wicked one come to an end, and may you establish the righteous, you who test the minds and hearts, O righteous God, my shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart God is a righteous judge and a judge who feels indignation every day if a man does not repent. God will wet his sword. He has bent and readied his bow. He has prepared for him his deadly arrows, making his arrows fiery shafts. Behold. The wicked man conceives evil and is pregnant with mischief and gives birth to lies. He makes a pit, digging it out, and falls into the hole that he has made. His mischief returns on his own head. And on his own skull his violence descends. I will give to the Lord the language, the thanks due to his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the name of the Lord most high. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we see here in Psalm 7 the perfect sinless righteousness of Jesus Jesus alone could look at any accusation brought against him from other people or from the enemy and say, it's not true. I'm innocent. My hands are clean. And so he is the righteous one. who stands before you in his own righteousness. But we who belong to you because of Jesus, we have been made upright in heart by your grace through the gift of the righteousness of Jesus. When Jesus overcame the devil, he did it so we could be righteous in your sight, as righteous as Jesus is. So the enemy's attacks against us are also silenced. And our hands are also clean because they've been washed clean with the blood of Jesus. Thank you for the overcoming salvation of our Lord. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me again for our walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Have a blessed day in the Lord.