Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is our last day of our 28th week together. We're in the Gospel of Luke, looking at the last part of Luke 19. And we're going to be asking this question, why did the crowd say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. Thank you for speaking to us day by day through your word and teaching us and growing us. Help us to grow in wisdom and understanding. Help us to grow in our love for you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so Luke 19, verses 28 to 48. And when he had said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. When he drew near to Bethfig and Bethany, at the mount that is called Alabet, he sent two of his disciples saying, Go into the village in front of you, where on entering you will find a colt tied on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here. If someone asks you, why are you untying it, you shall say this, the Lord has need of it. So those who were sent went away and found it just as he had told them. And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, Why are you untying the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of it. And they brought it to Jesus, and throwing their cloaks on the colt, they sat Jesus on it. And he rode along, as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road, and he wa as he was drawing near Already on the way down the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Praise, sorry, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. He answered, I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out. And when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it, saying, Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes. For the days will soon come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you, and surround you, and hem you in on every side, and tear you down to the ground, and your children within you And they will not leave one stone upon another in you, because you did not know the time of your visitation. And he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold, saying to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of robbers. And he was teaching daily in the temple. The chief priests and the scribes and the principal men of the people were seeking to destroy him. But they did not find anything they could do, for all the people were hanging. on his words. So when the crowds gathered together to welcome Jesus during his triumphal entry on that first Palm Sunday, the Gospels tell us that they shouted, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Matthew, Mark, and John also tell us that the crowds shouted, Hosannah. So why are these words so important? What do they mean? And why did the Pharisees tell the crowd who heard uh the the people shouting, tell them this crowd to to to stop doing it and and even tell Jesus to rebuke them for doing it. Well, the short answer is that the crowds in Jerusalem, they're quoting from Psalm 118, particularly verses 25 and 26, which says, Save us, we pray, O Lord. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Save us. In Hebrew is the word Hosanna. So Hosanna, we pray, O Lord. Blessed is he who comes. in the name of the Lord. Psalm 118 is a victory psalm. It's a song for thanksgiving, for deliverance from enemies. The crowd was shouting these verses because they believed. that Jesus was the Messiah and they were excited to see him accomplish Psalm 118 and what it says about the Gentiles, the nations who oppress God's people. Listen to verses 10 and 11. All nations surrounded me. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me, surrounded on every side. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off The Pharisees wanted Jesus to rebuke the crowd. They wanted the crowd to stop shouting this because they were afraid that Rome would crack down violently on a political uprising centered on a would-be Messiah. But Jesus did not rebuke the crowd because he knew the truth. He knew that Psalm 118 did in fact describe him, but not in the ways that the crowd expected Right before the lines that the crowd was shouting, we get verses 20 to 23, and this gives us Jesus' mission as he's heading into Jerusalem. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. Jesus not only entered Jerusalem through a gate But he came into Jerusalem as the gate over the Lord. He was coming to become our salvation. He was coming as the stone, rejected by the builders who would become the cornerstone of God's house, the new and living temple. He was coming to do the Lord's work, to fulfill the purposes of God. So even though the crowd didn't even understand what they were saying, what they were shouting. They were right. Jesus did come in the name of the Lord to save them, not from Rome, but ultimately from themselves. from their sin and death and condemnation. He would do it by being rejected and condemned in our place. thus becoming our salvation. And that is why the crowd shouted, though they didn't know why, Blessed is he who comes in the name. of the Lord. Let's turn our attention to Psalm 136 now as we continue to learn how to pray through the Psalms. So if you know me at all, You know that I love the word Hasid. I love this Hebrew word that talks about the steadfast love of the Lord, his committed covenantal love. And there's no psalm in all of the Psalms. that talk about Hesed more than Psalm 136. It's literally in every verse. It's was written as a call and response. And so the leader would say the first line, and the people would respond with the second line. Give thanks to the Lord for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of Gods for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the Lord of Lords for His steadfast love endures forever. To him who alone does great wonders for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who by understanding made the heavens, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who spread out the earth above the waters, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who made the great lights, for his steadfast love endures forever. The sun to rule over the day, for his steadfast love endures forever. The moon and stars to rule over the night, for his steadfast love endures for ever. To him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt for his steadfast love endures forever, and brought Israel out from among them for his steadfast love endures forever. with a strong hand and an outstretched arm, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who divided the Red Sea in two, for his Steadfast love endures forever, who made Israel pass in the midst of it, for his steadfast love endures forever. He op he overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, for his steadfast love endures forever to him. who led his people through the wilderness, for his steadfast love endures for ever. To him who struck down great kings, for his steadfast love endures forever, and killed mighty kings for his steadfast love endures forever. Sihon, king of the Amorites, for his steadfast love endures forever. And Og, king of Bashan, for his steadfast love endures forever. who gave their land as a heritage for his steadfast love endures forever. A heritage to Israel, his servant, for his steadfast love endures forever. It is he who remembered our low estate. for his steadfast love endures forever, and rescued us from our foes, for his steadfast love endures forever. Who gives food to all flesh, for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of heaven for his steadfast love endures forever. Let's pray. O Lord God Almighty, because your steadfast love endures forever, you sent your son, who rode into Jerusalem on the back of a donkey's colt on that first Palm Sunday during his triumphal entry. and was greeted by the crowds with, Hosanna, save now. Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Because you were coming, Lord Jesus, to bring victory. The real victory we need. You regarded our low estate. You saw us under oppression and bondage, not from earthly political rulers, because that's just a temporary problem. But eternally under the bondage of sin and death and eternal condemnation. And you delivered us by becoming sin and becoming condemned in our place, so that we could be justified. And we could be raised to newness of life in Jesus, our victorious Savior. Thank you. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Well that brings us to the end of Luke eight uh Luke Throwing a blank here. Luke 19, sorry. Phased out there for a second. That brings us to the end of Luke 19, and it also brings us to the end of week 28. And I'm tired today, so I'm pushing on. And uh anyway, we're gonna start in Luke twenty next week. We're we've come in now to the passion narrative to the to the final week of the life of Jesus here in the Gospel of Luke, which means we've got just a few more weeks in Luke, and then we'll be going on to the Gospel of John. I hope this was a blessing to you. I hope you get to worship together with God's people this Lord's day. Have a blessed day in the Lord.