Well, good morning. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. This is our new devotional series. that we are beginning and we're going to be going through the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, one section at a time, usually about half a chapter or so, but sometimes a little bit longer, sometimes a little bit shorter. Each day we will also have a prayer based on a psalm. And so it's Gospels and Psalms A passage in the Gospels where we're thinking and meditating about God's Word, and then a psalm that we'll use as a basis for prayer together. So walking with Jesus in the Gospels and Jesus in his life as he lived on this earth and we read about him in the Gospels, one of the things that's in the background is that the Psalms were a regular part of his weekly prayer life. First century uh Jewish people who were dedicated to God, they would actually pray through the entire Psalter every week. Some were mealtime prayers, some were morning prayers, some were mid-afternoon or evening prayers. Some were sung, some were prayed, some were recited as a family, but the pattern was to go through the entire Psalter every week. And so it's important as we're in the Gospels that we're also getting the Psalms as the background because it really is the the prayer book of Jesus, the song book of Jesus. And it tells us so much about him as we see that. So we're going to dig in today with Matthew 1, 1 to 17 and Psalm 1. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is so perfect, for your Son, who is so wonderful and our Savior. We pray. That you would be with us, that you would help us as we begin this new journey together through the Gospels, that you would write your word on our hearts, that you would show us Jesus more powerfully. that we might follow him more devotedly. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, Matthew 1, verses 1 to 17 The Book of the Genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers, and Judah the father of Perez and Zirah by Tamar. and Peres the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram, and Ram the father of Aminadab, and Aminadab the father of Nashan, and Nashan the father of Salmon, and Salmon the Father of Boaz by Rahab And Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse, and Jesse the father of David, the king. And David was the father of Solomon, by the wife of Uriah, and Solomon the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asaph. and Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah, and Uzziah the father of Jotham and Jotham the father of Ah He has an A has the father of Hezekiah And Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amos, and Amos the father of Josiah, and Josiah the father of Jeconiah, and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon And after the deportation to Babylon, Jechoniah was the father of Shealtiel, Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel, and Zerubbabel the father of Abayud, and Abaiud the father of Eliakim, and Zadok. Sorry. Uh and Elichim the father of Azor and Azor the father of Zadok and Zadok the father of Akim, and Akim the father of Eliud, and Eliud the father of Eliezer, and E and Matin the father of Jacob and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ. So all the generations, from Abraham to David, were 14 generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon, 14 generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to Christ, 14. generations. This is the Word of God. Is that a puzzling opening for the New Testament? When we sit down to read a good book, we're used to beginning with a strong opening, a hook, something that grabs our interest and holds it for the first chapter and makes us ready for what comes next. But when God begins to tell us the story of Jesus Christ, he begins with a list. of names. He begins with some familiar names. We know Abraham, we know Ruth, David, Solomon. Others are somewhat obscure. Shealthiel? Eliakim? Mathan? What is the purpose of this genealogy? Well, let's note three things briefly. First, the New Testament is a continuing of God's story that began in the Old Testament. And so this genealogy is the bridge. God begins the Gospel of Matthew by going all the way back to Genesis with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. and coming all the way through the return from the Babylonian exile with the f with the last people who are uh listed in the Old Testament. So rubbable We read about him when we were in Ezra, Nehemiah, and Haggai last year. You can go and read about him more there. God's telling us this is not an entirely new story. But is the continuation of the story of God's faithful dealings with His people. So from the call of Abraham to the establishment of the kingdom of David to the exile in Babylon, all the way to the birth of Jesus, the Bible tells us one whole story, and it finds its climax in Jesus. The second thing is that God keeps his covenant promises. Matthew highlights that Jesus is the son of David and the Son of Abraham, which is a reminder that God made special covenant promises to Abraham and to David. In Genesis 12, 15, and 17, God called Abraham and promised him that he would make him a great nation, the father of a multitude of nations, and to bless all nations on earth through his offspring. And in 2 Samuel 17 and 1 Chronicles 17, we read about God's covenant promise to David, that he would make a dynasty of him, he would build a house for him, and that one of David's descendants would sit on the throne over God's kingdom forever. The genealogy that begins Matthew shows that God keeps his covenant promises made to Abraham and made to David. And the third thing is that God's plan of salvation includes all kinds of people from all kinds of backgrounds. Jesus' genealogy has some unique features. It includes four women and several non-Israelite foreigners. Tamar is included, though she was a Canaanite. She dressed as a prostitute to seduce her father-in-law Judah, who had wronged her by not giving her in marriage to his son. His third son as he had promised. Rahab, another Canaanite who is a prostitute, is included here. Uh she's labeled as the wife of Uriah. Hmm, who is that? Well, that is, of course, um that is uh the wife of Uriah the Hittite is Bathsheba, right, the mother of Solomon. So she's listed in here as well. Um, she committed adultery with King David. She she was a sinful woman. And yet she's in the genealogy of Jesus. We have Ruth, though the Moabites. The Moabites were actually a uh a people who were not allowed in the assembly of God's people. But here's Ruth the Moabitist, who's part of one of the most wonderful redemption stories in the Old Testament as she marries Boaz. So here are these women and here are these foreigners, they're all included, why? Because God includes foreigners Women, outcasts, people of questionable characters, people with shady backgrounds, because Jesus is the Savior of all people who come to Him by faith, who call on Him in faith. Together these three points. Show us that God is sovereign, that He's faithful to keep His promises, and He's gracious. We need a God who is in control, who never fails, who does what He says, and who has mercy on sinners, because we're sinners. It's a reminder that such a God is in control, and this is a great way to start the Gospels, a book of good news of salvation in Jesus Well that is Matthew 1, 1 to 17. Let's jump over to Psalm 1 now. We're not always going to read the Psalm before we pray, but we'll do that today. We will read Psalm 1. And then we will pray this psalm together. Or pray from this psalm together. Psalm 1. Blessed is the man. Who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord And on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does he prospers. The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your law is right and good and true, and we shouldn't meditate on it. And we should walk in the way of your word. But Father, we confess that we don't do that all the time. We're sinful people. Too often we do walk in the counsel of the wicked. Too often we do stand in the way of sinners. Too often we do sit in the seat of scoffers, and we don't delight in your law. Have mercy on us. Thank you for Jesus, who is the fulfillment of Psalm 1. He is the blessed man. He is ever prosperous and fruitful. And in him we are righteous before you. So may Christ in us, by the power of your Holy Spirit, lead us to walk in ways that are fruitful, that are well-grounded, that are well-watered, and that would glorify you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Matthew 1, 1 to 17 in Psalm 1. Tomorrow we're going to continue on. Have a blessed day in the Lord.