Good morning, good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's our final day of our twenty-second week together in in the Gospels as we're learning to just look closely at the Gospels and think more deeply about Jesus and also learn how to pray the Psalms, which are in many ways the prayer book of Jesus. They point us to Jesus, they show us his heart, they teach us how to pray the way that he prayed. So I'm glad you're with us today. We are in Luke chapter 6, verses 1 to 19, and we're asking, why is prayer so important? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and for the gift of your word and for the gift of prayer. We pray that you would teach us from your word and deepen our lives of prayer before you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 6, 1-19. On a Sabbath, while he was going through the grain fields, his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands. But some of the Pharisees said, Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath? And Jesus answered them, Have you not read what David did when he was hungry? He and those who were with him, how he entered the house of God and took and ate the bread of the presence, which is not lawful for any but the priest to eat, and also gave it to those with him? And he said to them, The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. On another Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching, and the man was there, whose right hand was withered. And the scribes and the Pharisees watched him to see whether he would heal on the Sabbath, so that they might find a reason to accuse him. But he knew their thoughts, and he said to the man with the withered hand, Come and stand here. And he rose and stood there. And Jesus said to them, I ask you, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to destroy it? And, after looking around at them all, he said to them, Stretch out your hand. And he did so, and his hand was restored. But they were filled with fury and disgust with one another what they might do to Jesus. In these days he went out to the mountain to pray, and all night he continued in prayer to God, and when day came he called his disciples and chose from them twelve, whom he named apostles. Simon, whom he named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon, who was called the Zealot. and Judas, the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor. And he came down with them and stood on a level place with a great crowd of his disciples, and a great multitude of people. from all Judea and Jerusalem and the sea coasts of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases. And those who were troubled with unclean spirits were cured. And all the crowds sought to touch him, for power came out from him, and healed them all. So we read here in verses twelve to thirteen. In these days he went out to the mountain to pray all night. He continued in prayer to God. Does it surprise you that Jesus was such a man of prayer? Does it surprise you that I'm even asking that question? Well, think about it. Jesus was fully God, and he and his father are one. So why would he need to pray so much? Why labor all night in prayer? Why seek to be alone to pray so often? If we understand why Jesus needed to pray, it can help us understand why we need to pray too. Jesus is fully God, but he is also fully man. True God and true man, two distinct natures in one person forever In his humanity, Jesus was and is our Christ, the anointed one. He was and is our covenant head, our representative, our prophet, priest, and king. In his baptism, he was anointed by the Holy Spirit and was sustained by the Spirit in the desert wilderness, where he fasted for forty days and was tempted by Satan. In other words, Jesus didn't get off easy in this life just because he is God. He faced the same temptations, trials, and hardships that we do. Here's how Hebrews 2 puts it Since, therefore, the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who had the power of death, that is the devil. and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect. so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. That's Hebrews 2, 14-18. So why did Jesus pray? Because he needed strength in the face of temptation, wisdom in the face of decision. help in the face of opposition, encouragement in the face of suffering, and discouragement, resolve in the face of trial. In short, he needed communion with his Heavenly Father through the Holy Spirit, just like we do. First, strength in the face of temptation. When we face temptation, we need to pray. Jesus told his disciples, watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. Matthew 26, 41. When Jesus faced temptation in the wilderness at the beginning of his ministry and in the garden at the end of his ministry, he prayed. Second, wisdom in the face of decision. In today's passages, we see Jesus spent all night in prayer before he chose the twelve apostles. He needed wisdom. And God tells us that if anyone lacks wisdom, he should ask of God, who gives generously to all without reproach, James 1. 5. But we need to be forewarned. Sometimes we ask the Lord for wisdom in decision making because we think that will guarantee that we will make the right choice, which means in our minds an easy path or a fruitful ministry. Jesus prayed all night and then made the right decision, but that included choosing Judas Iscariot, a thief and a traitor, as one of the twelve. He didn't make a mistake. Though the world would probably say he did, but God was in control. Help in the face of opposition. Jesus faced great opposition at the cross. Satan and death sought to end him. He sought the Lord in prayer in the face of such opposition. And Hebrews 5. 7 says In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. Next, encouragement in the face of suffering. Jesus' prayer at the tomb of Lazarus comes to mind here. Jesus wept at the death of his friend. And at the grief of Mary and Martha he prayed, seeking God's favor, and he did so out loud that those who were suffering might believe and be strengthened and saved. And finally resolve in the face of trial. Jesus' prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane, right before he was betrayed by Judas. Father, if it is possible, Let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. Matthew 26, 39. This is a wonderful model of prayer in the face of trial. When resolve weakens, We can pray honestly and then submit ourselves to our Father's will. If Jesus needed to pray at all these times and in all these ways, how much more should we? And we can do so knowing that our great high priest ever lives to make intercession for us, and he understands our needs perfectly. Psalm 110 is a psalm about Christ. It's a very powerful messianic psalm. And um it's a Psalm of David. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter, rule in the midst of your enemies. Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power in holy garments. from the womb of the morning. The dew of your youth will be yours. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. The Lord is at your right hand. He will shatter kings on the day of his wrath. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. He will drink from the brook, by the way. Therefore, he will lift up his head. One more time, I don't think I'm going to keep doing this, but one more time I'm going to read the prayer that I wrote based on Psalm 110 as we close in prayer together Lord Jesus, your Heavenly Father said to you at your ascension to his right hand, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footsteps Your Father has given you a mighty scepter to entitle you to rule from heaven over all nations. Rule in the midst of your enemies, Lord Jesus Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power when you come again in holy garments. The wedding clothes of your perfect righteousness from the womb of the morning, the dew of the youth will be yours. You will shine with the glorious strength of the Son of Man in the midst of your people forever. Your father has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever in the order of Melchizedek. You sit at the right hand of your father. You will shatter kings on the day of your wrath. You will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. You will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. You will drink from the brook, by the way, because God will refresh you. Your father will lift up your head and will lift you up forever. Amen. Amen. It's a powerful and beautiful messianic psalm. I did preach on Psalm 110. If you want to go looking for that sermon, you can find more exposition of what it means. I've also taught on it. So if you want more detail about what this Psalm is really all about, I encourage you to go find those things. I hope today was a blessing to you. I hope you can join us next week as we continue in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 6 Have a blessed day, a blessed weekend, a blessed Lord's Day, and uh, Lord willing, we'll see you on Monday.