Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. Thank you for joining me as we are getting to know our Savior better on our third, fourth week. Fourth day of our twelfth week. Easy for me to say. Week 12, day four, is where we are, and we're here in Matthew 26, as we are right on the eve of the crucifixion here on this uh on the original Maundy Thursday, Holy Thursday. And um we celebrated that last week, a week ago today, but here we are in this passage today, Matthew 26, verses 26 to 46, and then we'll be praying Psalm 60. Our question is, why did Jesus have to die? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your Son, our Savior. Lord Jesus, thank you for laying down your life for us, for our salvation. Teach us from your word today that we might know you better and love you better. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it, broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat, this is my body. And also he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, Drink of it all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. for the forgiveness of sins. I tell you, I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus said to them, You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter answered him, Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away. Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows, You will deny me three times. Peter said to him, Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you. And all the disciples said the same. Then Jesus went with them to a place called Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, Sit here while I go over there and pray. And taking with him Peter, And the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and troubled. Then he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch with me And going a little farther, he fell on his face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will And he came to the disciples and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter, So, could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Again for the second time he went away and prayed, My Father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it, your will be done And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. So leaving them again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying the same words again. Then he came to the disciples and said to them, Sleep, and take your rest later on. See the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us be going. See, my betrayer is at hand. Why did Jesus have to die? Well, for centuries the cross has been the standard symbol of Christianity. We've grown accustomed to crosses, and they seem normal or even beautiful to us. But in Jesus' day, the cross was an instrument of terror, oppression, and humiliation. Crucifixion was a very public and incredibly painful way to be executed. By killing people in such a public and painful way, the Romans put fear into the hearts of their subjects. But why did Jesus die in this way? Did he have to die? Well, in today's passage, we have very clear evidence that Jesus had to die, and that without his death, we would be without hope. At the Last Supper with His disciples, Jesus explained why he had to die as he instituted the Lord's Supper He told his disciples to drink of the cup, which represents the blood of the covenant poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. Jesus is telling his disciples that he has to die to shed his blood to secure forgiveness for his people. By shedding his blood, Jesus seals and ratifies the new covenant. which purchases our redemption from the sins we have committed under God's law. But could there be some other way to get forgiveness? Couldn't we do some good works to earn forgiveness in some way, maybe through acts of penance? Seriously committed religious people will go on long pilgrimages. beat themselves with a flail, walk up a mountain on their knees, or fast for weeks, all in attempts to earn forgiveness. Do these other activities work? No. We know nothing else works to secure forgiveness because Jesus agonized in the Garden of Gethsemane and pleaded with his Father, my Father. If it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Surely if it was possible for us to secure forgiveness in some other way, God the Father would not have forced his son to go to the cross. So Jesus had to die in order for us to be forgiven. Our sin really is that bad. It deserves death. The very kind of painful and humiliating death that Jesus died for us in our place. Thankfully, because he was the innocent Son of God, his death was of infinite worth, securing forgiveness. For all of God's people, for all time, even for you and me living some 2,000 years later on the other side of the world. Jesus had to die so that we could be forgiven and live forever. He did so willingly because he loved us and he obeyed his father, and for that we should be eternally. Thankful. Let's turn our attention now to Psalm 60. Psalm 60 is a psalm to pray when the church is in a bad state. as is frankly the case today. It's written to the choir master according to Shushan Edith. That's probably the tune. It's a mikdem of David for instruction. when he strove with Aram Naharam and with Aram Zoba, and when Joab on his return struck down twelve thousand of Edom in the valley of Salt. Oh God, you have rejected us, broken down our defenses, you have been angry. Oh, restore us. You have made the land to quake. You have torn it open, repair its breaches, for it totters. You have made your people see hard things. You have given us wine to drink that made us stagger. You have set up a banner for those who fear you, that they may flee to it from the bow, that your beloved ones may be delivered. Give salvation by your right hand and answer us. God has spoken in his holiness with exaltation. I will divide up Shechem and pour out the veil of Succath. Gilead is mine, Manasseh is mine, Ephraim is my helmet. Judah is my scepter, Moab is my wash basin, upon Edom I cast my shoe, over Philistia I shout in triumph Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go forth, O God, with our armies. O grant us help against the foe for Vain is the salvation of man. With God we shall do valiantly. It is He who will tread down our foes. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, it is through the cross of Jesus Christ that you have tread down our true eternal foes, Satan. His minions, our sin, death itself, have been crushed. Vain is the salvation of man, but powerful is the blood of Jesus Powerful is the salvation of Jesus, the precious Son of God. We cannot stand against our enemies. They are too strong for us. But through you, through the triumph of the cross and the empty grave, we have the victory. Thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Amen. Thank you so much for joining me again, for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Again, I hope that you can join me tomorrow as we round out week 12. Have a blessed day in the Lord.