Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, so good you So good to be with you. If I can speak English, uh it's our second day of our sixteenth week And we are in Mark chapter 6, looking at the second half of the chapter, verses 30 to 56, and we're going to be considering this question, why do we need to get alone with God and rest? Why do we need to get alone with God and rest? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Please speak to us today as we spend time in your word Would you be our teacher? Would you help us to understand, to believe, to receive, and to respond to your word in faith and obedience, joy and love? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The apostles returned to Jesus and told him all that they had done and taught. And he said to them Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest awhile, for many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat. And they went away to the boat. to a desolate place by themselves. Now many saw them going and recognized them And they ran there on foot from all the towns and got there ahead of them. When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them because they were like sheep without a shepherd, and he began to teach them many things. And when it grew late, his disciples came to him and said, This is a desolate place, and the hour is now late Send them away to go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat. But he answered them, You give them something to eat And they said to him, Shall we go and buy two hundred dinari worth of bread, and give it to them to eat? And he said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. And when they found out, they said, Five. and two fish. Then he commanded them all to sit down in groups on the green grass. So they sat down in groups by hundreds and by fifties. And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing, and broke the loaves, and gave them to the disciples to set before the people. And he divided the two fish among them all, and they all ate And were satisfied, and they took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and of the fish And those who ate the loaves were five thousand men. Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side to Bethseda, while he dismissed the crowd And after he had taken leave of them, he went up on the mountain to pray. And when evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and he was alone on the land. and he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them, and about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. He meant to pass by them, but when they saw him walking on the sea, they thought it was a ghost and cried out, for they all saw him and were terrified. But immediately he spoke to them and said, Take heart. It is I. Do not be afraid. And he got into the boat with them, and the wind ceased, and they were utterly astonished for they did not understand about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened. When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesarat and moored to the shore. And when they got out of the boat, the people immediately recognized him and ran about the whole region and began to bring the sick people on their beds to wherever he was. And wherever he came, in villages, cities, or countryside, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and implored him that they might touch even the fringe of his garment, and as many as touched it were made well Twice in today's passage, we see the importance of withdrawing from public ministry for time alone with God. First, the disciples were called away to spend some time with Jesus, and then later Jesus sent the disciples away and withdrew by himself to pray. What was the benefit of these times and what do they tell us about our needs? First, Jesus called the disciples to come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest awhile. This was immediately after they had returned from being sent out by Jesus to preach the gospel of the kingdom and cast out demons. This first ministry experience had left them feeling excited. And it also brought them increased popularity. So many people were coming and going to see Jesus and his disciples that they could not even eat a meal in peace. Here we see several reasons for getting alone with God to rest. First, we need time to process and pray about what God has been doing in our lives. Second, we need some peace and quiet so we can think, reflect, and be refreshed. And third, when we need to get away from the voices and the crowds, the busyness and the acclaim of others. we can hear what Jesus would say to us through his word. Second, after the feeding of the 5,000, Jesus himself went up on the mountain to pray. This is one of many times when we see Jesus getting away from other people so he could spend time alone with his father. Jesus wanted to do his father's will and to please his father in everything. Jesus enjoyed warm and close fellowship with his Father through the Holy Spirit. He often spent time alone with God the Father. From Jesus' example, we can learn a few things. If even Jesus needed regular time alone with his Father, then we can know, first of all We are never too mature or too seasoned in the Christian life that we no longer need regular time alone with the Lord. Second, we're never too busy, too in demand, or too devoted to ministering to the needs of others. to justify neglecting time alone with the Lord. And third, we need wisdom and grace which come from intimate fellowship with our Heavenly Father Martin Luther was a man used greatly by God to accomplish much good, often in spite of his own personal failings. One of the keys to Luther's effectiveness in ministry was time spent in prayer. He was known to say, I have so much to do today that I shall spend the first three hours in prayer. May the Lord give us the grace to be mindful of our need for time alone with him. May we never be too busy or be fooled into being too self-sufficient to make time alone with the Lord a regular priority. Well, let's turn our attention now to Psalm 78, which is a great historical psalm, and we'll read this and then we'll pray together. Okay, here's Psalm 78. As mascul of Asaf, give ear, O my people, to my teaching. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable, I will utter dark sayings from of old, things that we have heard and known and that our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children, but tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the Lord and his might and the wonders that he has done. He established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers to teach to their children. that the next generation may know the children yet unborn, and arise and tell them to their children, so that they should set their hope in God and not forget the works of God. but keep his commandments, and that they should not be like their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation whose heart was not steadfast, whose spirit was not faithful to God. The Ephraimites Armed with the bow, turned back on the day of battle. They did not keep God's covenant, but refused to walk according to his law They forgot his works, and the wonders that he had shown them. In the sight of their fathers he performed wonders. In the land of Egypt, in the fields of Zoan, he divided the sea and let them pass through it, and made the waters stand up like a heap. In the daytime he led them with a cloud, and all night with a fiery light. He split rocks in the wilderness and gave them to drink abundantly as from the deep. He made streams come out of the rock and caused waters to flow down like rivers, yet they sinned still more against him, rebelling against the Most High in the desert. They tested God in their heart by demanding the food they craved. They spoke against God, saying, Can God spread a table in the wilderness? He struck the rock, so that water gushed out and streams overflowed. Can he also provide bread and provide meat for the people? Therefore, when the Lord heard he was full of wrath, a fire was kindled against Jacob, his anger rose against Israel, because they did not believe in God and did not trust his saving power. Yet he commanded the skies above, and opened the doors of heaven, and he rained down on them manna to eat. and gave them the grain of heaven. Men ate of the bread of angels. He sent them food in abundance. He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens. And by his power he let out the south wind. He rained meat on them like dust, winged birds like the sand of the seas And he let them fall in the midst of their camp, all around their dwellings. And they ate and were filled, for he gave them what they craved. But Before they had satisfied their craving, while the food was still in their mouths, the anger of God rose against them, and he killed the strongest of them, and laid low the young men of Israel, in spite of all this. They still sinned. Despite his wonders, they did not believe, so he made their days vanish like a breath, and their years in terror. When he killed them, they sought him. They repented and sought God earnestly. They remembered that God was their rock, the Most High God, their Redeemer. But they flattered him with their mouths, they lied to him with their tongues, their heart was not steadfast toward him, they were not faithful to his covenant, yet He, being compassionate, atoned for their iniquity, and did not destroy them. He restrained his anger often, and did not stir up all his wrath. He remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passes and comes not again. How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and grieved him in the desert, they tested God again and again, and provoked the Holy One of Israel. They did not remember his power on the day when he redeemed them from the foe, when he performed his signs in Egypt and his marbles in the fields of Zoan. He turned their rivers to blood, so that they could not drink of their streams. He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them, and frogs which destroyed them. He gave their crops to the devouring locusts, and the fruit of their labor to the locust. He destroyed their vines with hail and their sycamores with frost. He gave over their cattle to the hail and their flocks to thunderbolts. He let loose on them his burning anger, wrath, indignation, and distress, a company of destroying angels. He made a path for his anger. He did not spare them from death, but gave their lives. over to the plague. He struck down the firstborn in Egypt, the first fruits of their strength in the tents of Ham. Then he led out his people like a sheep and guided them in the wilderness like a flock. He led them in safety so that they were not afraid. But the sea overwhelmed their enemies, and he brought them to his holy land, to the mountain which his right hand had won He drove out nations before them. He apportioned them for a possession, and settled the tribes of Israel in their tents. Yet They tested and rebelled against the Most High God and did not keep his testimonies, but turned away and acted treacherously like their fathers. They twisted like a deceitful bow. For they provoked him to anger with their high places. They moved him to jealousy with their idols. When God heard he was full of wrath, and he utterly rejected Israel, he forsook his dwelling at Shiloh the tent where he dwelt among mankind, and delivered his power to captivity, his glory to the land of the foe. He gave his people over to the sword. and vented his wrath on his heritage, fire devoured their young men, and their young women had no marriage song, their priests fell by the sword, and their widows made no lamentation. Then the Lord awoke as from sleep, like a strong man shouting because of wine. And he put his adversaries to rout. He put them to everlasting shame. He rejected the tent of Joseph. He did not choose the tribe of Benjamin, but he chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion, which he loves He built his sanctuary like the high heavens, like the earth, which he has founded forever. He chose David his servant and took him from the sheepfolds, from following the nursing ewes. He brought him. To shepherd Jacob his people, Israel his inheritance, with upright heart. He shepherded them and guided them with his skillful hand. Let's pray. Oh Heavenly Father, when we look back on this broad sweep of biblical history that's covered in Psalm 78, we're amazed at how many times you came to the rescue of your people in dramatic supernatural ways and yet how consistently, stubbornly they rebelled against you. And yet are we any different? You've been good to us, you've been gracious to us, you've given your son for us, who showed himself to be the savior that we need, and yet our hearts still go astray Have mercy on us, O God, and may we follow the greater David, our shepherd, the King. May we spend time alone with you, seeking your face. May we be faithful to you. Day by day, as your people, keep us from wandering, keep us walking in your ways. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today as we're walking with Jesus through the Word and learning to pray the Psalms. I hope it was a blessing to you, and I hope you can join me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.