Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. Getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you for our second week in the Gospels. Day one of week two brings us to Matthew. chapter three, verses thirteen to seventeen, the baptism of Jesus as recorded in Matthew's Gospel, and then we're going to pray on the basis of Psalm 6. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we look to him today. Father, thank you for sending your Son Jesus to be our Savior in every way. Help us to understand his baptism and what that means for us, and how we can understand, know, and love Jesus better. We pray this in his name. Amen. Matthew chapter 3, verses 13 to 17. Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John to be baptized by him. John would have prevented him, saying, I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me? But Jesus answered him, Let it be so for now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he consented. And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him. And he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him. And behold, a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. So, why did Jesus need to be baptized? John the Baptist was at the Jordan River baptizing people with a baptism of repentance. In our last devotional, we looked at repentance and what that means. So when Jesus shows up to be baptized, John asks him a very good question. I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me? In other words, why would Jesus, the sinless one, need to be baptized by John? He didn't need to repent, did he? No. Jesus did not say that he needed to repent, because he had never sinned and would never sin, so why the baptism? Well, first of all, Jesus was baptized in order to fully identify with us. He was baptized for us, just as he did everything else for us. To be in our place as our substitute savior, he needed to be baptized. Secondly, Jesus was baptized as a consecration for his earthly ministry as the Messiah. Before he began his earthly ministry as the Messiah, Jesus had to be set apart for the work. Baptism with water was one way to consecrate or set him apart for his ministry calling. And third Jesus was baptized as an anointing to be Messiah for Christ. Messiah means anointed one. Jesus was and is our Messiah, our anointed prophet, priest, and king. Each of these three offices in the Old Testament was an anointed office. And so while while John baptized with water, God the Father baptized Jesus with the Holy Spirit. coming down like a dove as the the real key to understanding what happened. Later, the Apostle Peter would be teaching Cornelius in Acts chapter 10. And he would tell Cornelius, you yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him In God's anointing of Jesus with the Holy Spirit, we have a wonderful picture of the Trinity. God the Father sends God the Holy Spirit to anoint God the Son. The Father is the sender, the Spirit is the sent, the Son is the sent one, and the Holy Spirit is the power that anoints him for the mission that he's doing. been sent with. It's a great picture. We can see they're all God, and yet there's a distinct role for each of them within the work of redemption. Well, that's our look at the Gospels. Now let's go to Psalm 6, and we're going to pray together based on Psalm 6. Let's read this together. To the choir master. with stringed instruments, according to the Shemonith, a psalm of David. O Lord Rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am languishing. Heal me, O Lord, for my bones are troubled. My soul is also greatly troubled. But you, O Lord, how long? Turn, O Lord, deliver my life, save me for the sake of your steadfast love. For in death there is no remembrance of you. In Sheol, who will give you praise I am weary with my moaning. Every night I flood my bed with tears. I drench my couch with weeping. My eye wastes away with grief. It grows weak because of all my foes. Depart from me, all you workers of evil, for the Lord has heard the sound of my weeping. The Lord has heard my plea. The Lord accepts my prayer All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled. They shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for saving us. We are aware of our sin. Our sin is constant. Our sin is day and night. And when we're most aware of it, it weighs heavily on us. As a burden because we're so distraught at how quickly and how readily and how grossly we sin. And Satan would use that to to oppress us and to imprison us in shame. But you have provided salvation in your steadfast love. You sent Jesus, the anointed one, set apart at his baptism, to be our Savior, to represent us, to fulfill all righteousness for us, to redeem us. So that our sin is forgiven and the enemy can no longer bring accusation. Thank you for such a savior and thank you for such salvation. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for our first day of our second week. Tomorrow we're going to continue on into chapter four. And I hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.