Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's week six. Day one brings us to the 11th chapter, verse 20 to 30 of Matthew's Gospel, and then we'll be looking at Psalm 26. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time that we have together in your Gospels. Thank you for Jesus, our Savior. As we listen to his words today, help us to understand them, to receive them, believe them, and respond to our Lord in faith and obedience. We pray in Jesus' name Amen. Matthew 11, verses 20 to 30. Then he began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works had been done, because they did not repent. Woe to you, Khorazan, woe to you, Beth Seda! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I tell you It will be more bearable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you. And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? you will be brought down to Hades, for if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I tell you, it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you. At that time Jesus declared, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son, and any one to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Come to me. All who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Today's reading begins with harsh words of condemnation and ends with gentle words of invitation. The great, prominent, influential cities of Betheda, Khorazin, and Capernaum are condemned by Jesus for their stubborn refusal to acknowledge his kingdom despite abundant evidence. Then those who labor and are heavy laden are gently invited to come and find rest beneath the yoke of him who is gentle and lowly in heart. Do you ever wonder what makes the difference between the two groups? Why did these cities see the signs and wonders of Jesus and yet reject him while the common laboring people often had eyes to see and ears to hear the call of Christ. Well, we don't need to wonder or speculate, because Jesus tells us plainly Right between the words of judgment and the words of gentle invitation, Jesus praises God, his father, for his gracious will to reveal the truth to little children while hiding them from the wise and understanding. Just so we don't miss it, let's consider exactly what Jesus is saying. First, it is never a lack of information or evidence that keeps someone from Jesus. The cities Jesus condemned had all the evidence they could ever hope to have. Secondly, power and influence cannot buy you entrance into heaven. Jesus does not seek out the rich and powerful, looking for their resources in his kingdom, for his kingdom. And thirdly, it's not being poor and weak that makes the difference. It's the gracious decision of God to reveal Himself. There's nothing special about poor or weak people in themselves either. It is God's self-revelation and his eye-opening grace that saves. If you know the Lord, praise him. Give him all the honor. It wasn't your wealth, influence, power, intelligence, or insight, or even your poverty or your neediness that brought you to Christ. It was the grace of God from beginning to to end. Let's look at Psalm 26 as we prepare to pray together. Psalm 26 is a Psalm of David, Vindicate me, O God, for I have walked in my integrity. And I have trusted in the Lord without wavering. Prove me, O Lord, and try me. Test my heart and my mind, for your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness. I do not sit with men of falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites. I hate the assembly of evildoers, and I will not sit with the wicked I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O Lord, proclaiming thanksgiving aloud and telling all your wondrous deeds. O Lord, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells. Do not sweep my soul away with sinners. nor my life with bloodthirsty men, in whose hands are evil devices, and whose right hands are full of bribes. But as for me I shall walk in my integrity, redeem me and be gracious to me, my foot stands on level ground. In the great assembly, I will pray. I will bless the Lord. Psalm 26, we might wonder, how can I pray this? I don't have integrity without wavering. No, but Jesus. Did. Ultimately, the Psalms are the prayers of Jesus. They point us to Jesus and they show us the heart of Jesus. And it's Jesus' faultless faithfulness. that is our standing before God and our hope of eternal life. And we should have the same heart as Jesus to to not desire the approval of hypocrites, but to love God's house and God's people and above all God's glory. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Thank you for saving us by your grace. We've come to know you not because we were smart enough or we had enough resources or you needed us. on your team or in your kingdom. We had nothing we could offer you. Yet you chose us. You drew us. You saved us by your grace and for your glory. And we thank you for that. We thank you for Jesus, the righteous one. He earned a perfect standing before you in his integrity without wavering. And that righteousness is given to us as a gift as we trust in Christ. Turning to you by the power of your spirit, we are made righteous forever. Help us to love what Jesus loves, to love your people, to love your kingdom, to love your glory. And may we always be thankful and worshipful to you in response to your grace to us. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me today as we're walking with Jesus through the Gospels. Hope you can join me again tomorrow and have a blessed day in the Lord.