Good morning, I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, and this is Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. And we're at the last day of week six. We've been in the Gospel of Matthew so far. We come now to chapter 13, which is the Great Parables chapter. We have sort of the definitive parable first with the parable of the sower and Jesus' explanation of the parables, and then we have some other parables in this chapter as well. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love for us and your faithfulness to us. Thank you for your Son Jesus, the wise and faithful teacher. Be our teacher and guide by your Holy Spirit. We pray today in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, so as we begin Matthew 13 today, we're asking why did Jesus tell parables? Matthew 13, 1 to 17. That same day Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea. And great crowds gathered around him, so that he got into a boat and sat down, and the whole crowd stood on the beach And he told them many things in parables, saying, A sower went out to sow, and as he sowed, some seeds fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured them Other seeds fell on rocky ground, where they did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up since they had no depth of soil, and when the sun rose they were scorched. And since they had no root, they withered away. Other seeds fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them. Other seeds fell on good soil and produced grain. some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty. He who has ears, let him hear. Then the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? And he answered them, To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given For to the one who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. This is why I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. Indeed, in their case The prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled that says, You will indeed hear, but never understand, and you will indeed see, but never perceive, for this people's heart has grown dull, and with their eyes they can barely hear With their ears they can barely hear. Nobody can hear with their eyes. With their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them. But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. For truly I say to you, many prophets and righteous people longed to see what you see. and did not see it, and to hear what you hear and did not hear it. Well, today we're reading one of Jesus' most famous and important parables, the parable of the sower. It's in all three of the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and it really is a key to understanding all the parables of Jesus. So next week we're going to look at that parable more closely on Monday, on the first day of next week. Jesus will give a detailed explanation to the disciples. But first we're going to stop here. and and deal with this explanation that Jesus has for why he tells everything to the crowds in parables. Jesus' teaching is perhaps most famous for his use of parables. You've probably heard Bible teachers who've claimed that Jesus told parables to the crowds so that they could better understand his teaching He used illustrations from everyday life so that they could have relevant illustrations to make the meaning of the message clear. And that sounds nice, but the problem is that it's not true. It's in fact the opposite of the effect that Jesus' parables actually had for people, and it's the opposite of the reason that Jesus himself gave for the use of the parables Jesus told his disciples that they alone were given to know the kingdom, the secrets of the kingdom of heaven. The crowds were not given this mountain. When Jesus teaches the crowd the moral law of God, he makes the meaning very plain and clear. He does not hide God's holy standard in the dark and keep people wondering what God requires. Just reread Matthew 5 in the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus doesn't use parables there. But he does use them when he teaches about the nature of the kingdom and of salvation. Why? Well, very simply, because Jesus' use of parables is a judgment against the Jewish people for their rejection of him as the Messiah. The Jewish leaders, especially the scribes, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the teachers of the law. They were experts in the Word of God and in the ways of God. They should have been well studied and prepared for Jesus' arrival. They should have recognized the signs of his earthly ministry, which were all exactly as foretold in Isaiah and elsewhere But their pride, their pretense, their hunger for power and control all kept them from seeing what should have been plain. The mass of people had followed the teachings of these false teachers. and were led astray into ignorance and spiritual blindness. So Jesus called a few. He chose them. He called them to follow him. He gave them salvation and he gave them the secrets of the kingdom. But for the rest, Jesus says, from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. The Lord has mercy on whom he has mercy. He also hardens whom he hardens. Romans 9. 18 says that He saves those he chooses to save and he gives the rest what they deserve for rejecting him. It's sobering and it's humbling, but it is clearly true and biblical. It's exactly what Jesus tells his disciples here. So what do we take from that? If you are saved, you've been given the privilege of knowing the secrets of the kingdom, then praise God for his grace to you. For you're blessed beyond what you deserve, and it's a grace that has been the source of all of your blessings. Praise God. Psalm 30. A Psalm of David at the Dedication of the Temple. I will extol you, O Lord, for you have drawn me up, and have not let my foes rejoice over me O Lord my God, I cried to you for help and you have healed me. O Lord, you have brought up my soul from Sheol. You restored my life from among those who go down to the pit Sing praises to the Lord, O you His saints, and give thanks to His holy name, for His anger is but for a moment, and His favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes with the morning. As for me, I said, In my prosperity I shall never be moved. By your favor, O Lord, you made my mountain stand strong. You hid your face. I was dismayed. To you, O Lord, I cry, and to the Lord I plead for mercy. What profit is there in my death? If I go down to the pit, will the dust praise you? Will it tell of your faithfulness? Hear, O Lord, and be merciful to me. O Lord, be my helper. You have turned for me my morning into dancing. You have loosed my sackcloth. Clothe me with gladness, that my glory may sing your praise and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks to you forever. Let's pray. Lord, we have every reason to give thanks to you forever because you have been gracious to us. You have healed us. You have raised us from the death of the condemnation of our sin. And you have given us new life. We thank you, Father, for all that you are, for all that you have done, and for having mercy on us in particular The Psalm 30 tells us clearly about the resurrection of Jesus from the dead, that you raised him from the depths of Sheol, you restored him to life. When he went down to the pit. We are in Christ by your grace, and by your grace you answer the cry of Psalm 30 for us as well. And we thank you and rejoice in you for this. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that is week six. And I hope this has been a helpful journey through the Gospels for you. We're going to be continuing this for several months. Our target date to finish is sometime in November. And so I hope you're going to be continuing with us as we continue to walk with Jesus through the Gospels day by day. Have a blessed day in the Lord.