Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's Friday, the end of our 12th week together, day 5, and we're coming to the end of Matthew 26, taking a look today at verses 47 to 75, and then at Psalm 61. Today we're asking this question Yesterday we talked about why Jesus had to die. Today, why was Jesus betrayed, misunderstood, falsely accused, and denied? Let's read. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this word that we have before us today. Please be our teacher and our guide. Write it on our hearts by your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew twenty-six starting in verse forty-seven. While he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve. And with him a great crowd, with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the elders of the people. Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, The one I will kiss is the man seize him And he came up to Jesus at once and said, Greetings, Rabbi, and he kissed him. Jesus said to him, Friend, do what you came to do. Then they came up and laid hands on Jesus and seized him. And behold, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. Then Jesus said to him, Put your sword back into its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Do you not think? Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? But how then should the scriptures be fulfilled that it must be so? At that hour Jesus said to the crowds, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I sat in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me But all this has taken place that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples left him and fled. Then those who had seized Jesus led him to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had gathered, and Peter was following him at a distance as far as the courtyard of the high priest. And going inside he sat with the guards to see the end. Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking false testimony against Jesus that they might put him to death, but they found none. Though many false witnesses came forward, at last two came forward and said, This man said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days. And the high priest stood up and said, Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you? But Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to him, I adjure you, by the living God, tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus said to him, You have said so. But I tell you, from now on you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven Then the high priest tore his robes and said, He has uttered blasphemy. What further witnesses do we need? You have heard now his blasphemy. What is your judgment? They answered, He deserves death. Then they spit in his face and struck him, and some slapped him, saying, Prophesy to us, you Christ, who is it that struck you? Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a servant girl came up to him and said, You also were with Jesus the Galilean. But he denied it before them all, saying, I do not know what you mean. And when he went out to the entrance another servant girl saw him, and she said to the bystanders, This man was with Jesus of Nazareth and he again denied it with an oath. I do not know the man. After a little while the bystanders came up and said to Peter, Certainly you too are one of them, for your accent betrays you Then he began to invoke a curse upon himself and to swear, I do not know the man and immediately the rooster crowed, And Peter remembered the saying of Jesus, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly. It's a sad scene that unfolds in these verses, but it's vital that we understand how totally Jesus is in control of all the circumstances leading up to his death. Jesus is betrayed by one of his closest followers. And to add insult to the betrayal, Judas Iscariot chose a kiss as the sign to identify Jesus to the armed mob who came out to arrest him in the dark. Jesus is misunderstood by another of his closest followers as Peter drew his sword to strike, cutting off the ear of the servant of the high priest. He is falsely accused by the ruling council of God's people. With the chaos of a hastily assembled bogus trial, false witnesses bring accusations and can't even agree with each other on the made-up so-called facts. He is charged with blasphemy by the ruling council for stating the plain truth of who he really was and is. And he was denied three times by the zealous follower who was willing to kill for him just an hour or so before. Why did all of this happen to Jesus? Yesterday we considered why Jesus had to die. But today we need to consider all these other horrible things that were done to God's only Son leading up to the cross. Jesus suffered being betrayed, misunderstood, falsely accused, unjustly condemned, and repeatedly denied for two main reasons. First, to fulfill Scripture, and second to prepare him to be a sympathetic high priest Isaiah said that the Messiah would be despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. When the mob came to arrest him, And he had to correct Peter's zealous sword fighting. Jesus said, but all this has happened, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled Jesus also needed to suffer so that he could be fully qualified to be our sympathetic high priest. This explains the reason why the Messiah had to be a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. He had to be tested. tempted and made to suffer in all the ways in which his people suffer, so we can come to him and find sympathy in our time of need. Hebrews 4, 15 and 16 says this. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Hebrews 2, 17 said, therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. So when you read the Gospels and you see all this terrible stuff happening to Jesus, just remember he did this all for you, for me. Jesus willingly submitted to these trials and suffered in these ways so that you could come to him, I could come to him in our trials, at our suffering, and find someone who listens with sympathy He understands because he has suffered too. Psalm sixty-one The Psalms show us the heart of Jesus. They really show us how Jesus prayed, how Jesus thought as he was suffering at the hands of his enemies. Psalm 61 is written to the choir master with stringed instruments. It's a psalm of David. Hear my cry, O God. Listen to my prayer. From the end of the earth I call to you. When my heart is faint, lead me to the rock that is higher than I, for you have been my refuge. a strong tower against the enemy. Let me dwell in your tent forever. Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings, for you, O God, have heard my vows. You have given me the heritage of those who fear your name. Prolong the life of the king. May his years endure to all generations. May he be enthroned forever before God. Appoint steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him, so will I ever sing praises to your name as I perform my vows day after day This is Jesus. Jesus is the life of the king that endures to all generations. He's the one who sits at the right hand of the throne of God with steadfast love and faithfulness. Let's pray. O Lord Jesus, our great King, you do live forever. Generation after generation has been able to call upon you for salvation and find in you the steadfast love and faithfulness we need. the sympathetic high priest we need, the perfect sacrifice we need in times of trouble. Thank you, Jesus, for submitting yourself to such suffering for us, for our salvation and for our comfort. in times of trouble. Amen. Amen. Well that is week 12 in the books. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope you can join us again next week as we continue on into Matthew 27. And I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord