Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus in the Gospels, where we are getting to know our Savior better. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is week 33 And we are in John 5. We're going to be looking at verses 30 to 47 today. We're going to be asking this question, what witnesses did Jesus offer to support his claim to be the Son of God? What witnesses did Jesus offer? Jesus offer to support his claim to be the Son of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. It is wonderful. It amazes me how I can read your word again and again, study it again and again, teach it again and again, and still see new things, still see wonderful connections I had We pray that you would show us more of Christ today, and we pray this in his name. Amen. All right. I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge. And my judgment is just because I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. If I alone bear witness about myself, my testimony is not true. There is another who bears witness about me, and I know that the testimony that he bears about me is true. You sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. Not that the testimony I receive is from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice in his light for a while. But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I'm doing, bear witness about me, that the Father has sent me, and the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me. His voice you have not heard, his form you have not seen, and you do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe in the one whom he has sent. You search the scriptures. Because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness about me. Yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. I do not receive glory from people But I know that you do not have the love of God within you. I have come in my Father's name, and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you, Moses, on whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? It's amazing really what Jesus is doing here in this passage and it really is what sets apart Christianity from other religions in the world. It's verifiability. It's the invitation to use our minds to consider evidence, to weigh testimony, and have faith that is informed. By reliable evidence and reason. Now, it's not that reliable evidence and reason in and of themselves can save us, but faith is not a leaf in the dark that is contrary to reason. Let me just explain how it's different from some other religions. Islam is based upon a belief that the Quran is the very word of God, and it came from the Prophet Muhammad. But Muhammad was alone in the cave with his brother when they received the revelation of the Quran. And there were no other eyewitnesses. No one ever saw anything. And Muhammad himself never did any miracles that would confirm that he was a prophet. Didn't raise anyone from the dead, didn't feed anybody. And Muslims don't even claim that he did. There's no claim. Muslims say the miracle is the Quran. Well then where's the supporting miracles? Where's the where's the attestation? Where are the witnesses? Other than his brother, that wouldn't hold up in a court of law. Yeah, my brother saw the whole thing. Oh, your brother? The one who gets to rule with you and exercise power alongside you? Joseph Smith. when he supposedly found these golden tablets that contained the Book of Mormon in New York State. No one but his immediate family members ever laid hold, laid eyes on these golden tablets, or the way that God gave him to decode them. Only those who were close enough to benefit from his power. Jesus did miracles that were seen by his enemies People who never believed in him. And they were never denied. The fact that he did these miracles were never denied, even by people who opposed him. Even by people who put him on trial and condemned him to death. They knew that they had seen the miracles. So here Jesus is bringing out four witnesses. That support his claim to be the Son of God, to be the one who has been entrusted with authority from the Father. First witness is John the Baptist. Verse 33, he says, You sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. John publicly bore witness when he said, Behold the Lamb of God. It was back in John 1. The second witness is his public miracles. He says, The testimony that I have is greater than John for the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I am doing. Bear witness about me that the Father has sent me. That's verse 36. Jesus repeatedly did great works, miracles, publicly for all to see, people who believed and people who didn't believe. This is something no false prophet or Messiah could ever pretend to do. Not in the way that Jesus did it. No one else has ever claimed that. Sometimes we as Christians think, well, every founder of every major religion has done miracles. Well, Moses Who received revelation from God? He did public miracles. Jesus did public, but Muhammad didn't. Confucius didn't. Buddha didn't. Joseph Smith didn't. They didn't even claim to do them because you can't just make claims when there are eyewitnesses involved and verifiability on the line. So, first John the Baptist, second is public miracles, third witness is God the Father. He said, the Father who sent me bore witness about me. Now Jesus says they never heard his voice or saw his form, and that's true, but at his baptism God did speak from heaven, and those who were there at the baptism knew that God had said something, even if they couldn't fully understand it They knew that something was happening. The Father gave Jesus the works to do because the Father wanted Jesus to be seen for who he is. So the third witness is God the Father, and the fourth are the Scriptures of the Old Testament. He said, You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness about The religious leaders of Jesus' day had studied the scriptures, they had memorized the scriptures, they had taught the scriptures, but they missed the whole point of the scriptures. They missed how clearly they were preparing the way for Jesus. Scriptures written hundreds of years before his birth testified that he would come from the line of David. That he would be born in the city of Bethlehem to a virgin, that he would teach in parables, that he would minister in Galilee. All of these things were foretold ahead of time. Now ultimately God has created everything. He's created us in his image. He has given us our minds and the gift of reason And faith is not contrary to science or to reason or to the evidence of creation or to the evidence of history They go together. Faith and evidence support each other. We need to beware of false prophets who say, just trust me. I know, I heard from God. Take my word for it. Even Jesus himself didn't do that because he loved us too much to manipulate us in that way or to set us up for other people to manipulate us in that way Our minds must be engaged, and as we do so we see that God respects us as those who bear his image and speaks to us in ways that are convincing with accompanying proof. To support our faith. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for loving us. Thank you for condescending to speak to us. Thank you for sending your son to not only reveal your truth and die for our sins, but to do many miracles that supported and validated his claim to be who he was, who he is. Help us to trust in Jesus. Help us to follow you with our hearts and our minds, with our faith and our reason. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for walking with Jesus through the Gospels. I hope it was a blessing to you, and I hope you can join me. Me again tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord