He is the one we worship. He is the one who speaks to us through his word. So let's turn to Isaiah chapter 24. As you do so, I just want to point out something to you that I learned several years ago and stuck with me as being incredibly encouraging and When Revelation speaks of the one who was and is and is to come, as we just sang, that phrase is used a couple times in Revelation. The Lord God Almighty is the one who was and who is and who is to come. That is a way of unpacking the name of the Lord. So when we begin our passage in Isaiah 24, you're going to see, behold the Lord, and you'll see it in all caps. That's the name of the Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah, Jehovah. We actually don't know how to pronounce it because uh Jewish scribes you know didn't never did pronounce it out loud. So that's the name of the Lord. But what we know is that it comes from the verb I am And yet it's intentionally timeless in its aspect. And so he is the one who was and who is and who is to come. the Almighty, which really is what the Lord means. So when you see the Lord in all caps, you can think, not just Yahweh, but you can think the one who was and who is and who is to come the Almighty. Almighty. With that in mind, let's read Isaiah 24. Behold, the Lord will empty the earth and make it desolate. And he will twist its surface and scatter its inhabitants. And it shall be as with the people, so with the priest. As with the slave, so with his master, as with the maid, so with her mistress, as with the buyer, so with the seller, as with the lender, so with the borrower, as with the creditor, so with the debtor. The earth shall be utterly empty and utterly plundered, for the Lord has spoken this word. The earth mourns and withers. The world languishes and withers. The highest people of the earth languish. The earth lies defiled under its inhabitants. For they have transgressed the laws, violated the statutes, broken the everlasting covenant, therefore a curse Devours the earth, and its inhabitants suffer for their guilt. Therefore, the inhabitants of the earth are scorched, and few men are left. The wine mourns, the vine languishes, all the merry-hearted sigh. The mirth of the tambourine is stilled, the noise of the jubilant has ceased, the mirth of the lyre is stilled No more do they drink wine with singing. Strong drink is bitter to those who drink it. The wasted city is broken down. Every house is shut up so that none can enter. There is an outcry in the streets for lack of wine. All joy has grown dark. The gladness of the earth is banished. Desolation is left in the city, the gates are battered into ruins, for thus it shall be in the midst of the earth, among the nations, as when an olive tree is beaten. As at the gleaning when the grape harvest is done, they lift up their voices. They sing for joy. Over the majesty of the Lord, they shout From the west. Therefore, in the east, give glory to the Lord. In the coastlands of the sea, give glory to the name of the Lord, the God of Israel. From the ends of the earth we hear songs of praise, of glory to the righteous one. But I say, I waste away, I waste away, woe is me, for the traitors have betrayed. With betrayal, the traitors have betrayed. Terror and the pit and the snare are upon you, O inhabitant of the earth He who flees at the sound of the terror shall fall into the pit, and he who climbs out of the pit shall be caught in the snare. For the windows of heaven are opened, and the foundations of the earth Tremble. The earth is utterly broken. The earth is split apart The earth is violently shaken. The earth staggers like a drunken Man, it sways like a hut, its transgression lies heavy on it, and it falls and will not rise again On that day the Lord will punish the host of heaven in heaven, and the kings of the earth on the earth. They will be gathered together as prisoners in a pit. They will be shut up in a prison, and after many days they will be punished. Then the moon will be confounded, and the The sun ashamed, for the Lord of hosts reigns on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and his glory will be before his elders Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we have come to a most sobering text in your holy word. Help us not to shrink back, or to make excuses, or to turn Away, but help us to receive this word as your good and holy and true word that we must heal And that must change the way we live our lives. You alone can do that work. You alone can speak to us in that way and change us in that way. We pray that you would. We need it. And so we ask it humbly in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Yesterday I had the privilege of giving a somewhat funny and light-hearted, but hopefully helpful, uh, graduation speech. Today I have a much heavier task in front of me. For I must be faithful to the Word of God. And this passage is sobering. It is intended to be sobering It is intended to be a splash of cold water to a sleepy face to wake us up and help us to pay attention. Do you ever notice in our world how almost no one likes judgmentalism, but everyone longs for true justice? Think about that. No one no one likes being judged, right? People will say like, hey, don't judge Or they even tattoo on their bodies, only God can judge me. Or they just say, you're being judgmental. It was it's been said that within the past generation, the most quoted verse from the Bible has changed. From John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, so that whoever believes in him will not perish, but will have everlasting Life to Matthew 7. 1. Don't judge, lest you be judged. Don't know if that's really true, but it certainly has moved in that direction. But it's interesting. We still long for justice. We look at a world in which human trafficking is a bigger issue today than it ever has been in the history of the world. There are estimated to be more people in forms of slavery and bondage today than ever in the history of the world. many of whom are children sold into slavery by their own parents. We have drug use that is widespread as people will create drugs that they know will kill people, but they do so and they push it into the market because They can make money doing so. We have wars that leave hundreds of thousands of people homeless right now, Sudan. is being torn apart because two generals each want to be the top dog. And so the entire country has to suffer bloodshed and terror because two guys each want to be in control. Across our world, innocent life is snuffed out before it can be born. Just got an update a couple weeks ago of you might remember the story of the Nigerian girls who were kidnapped from their school, from their Christian school. a hundred girls that were kidnapped from their Christian school a few years ago. About seventy of them have never been returned and never been found. They were taken from the schoolyard and they were made into child brides And they still remain in that condition today. In this kind of a world, we think: where is the justice? And the very same people who say, oh, you can't judge me, will look at those headlines and say, where is the justice? Where is God in this world? I thought God was supposed to be a God of justice. Well he is. He is a god of justice. I think a further irony is that many of the very same people who who cry out for justice and who say, you know, where is God? supposed to be a God of justice, they'll read the Old Testament and they'll say things like, oh, the God of the Old Testament is a God of wrath and judgment. We don't like him. Wait a minute. You just said all this evil in the world, and where's God, the God of justice, and yet you read about a whole bunch of evil and God punishing it, and then you say, well, we don't like that God because he's a God of wrath and judgment. Like, make up your mind What do you really want? Well, here's what I think people want, all of us, in the heart, which is, would you get rid of those other people's sin that I think is horrible, but I have good excuses for mine? I have reasons. Right? Interesting. Um A 2016 Lifeway Research Survey showed that 57% of Americans believed it would be fair for God to show his wrath against sin. Which I guess means 43% of Americans say it wouldn't be fair for God to show his wrath against them. But anyway, you have a majority, at least in 2016. Fifty-seven percent of Americans said it's fair for God to show his wrath against sin, but an even larger majority, nearly three-quarters, seventy-four percent of Americans thought it was wrong for God to punish people for smaller sins. And in the same survey, 65% of Americans said every person sin sins a little, but people are essentially good in nature. The big sin Is that which is being done by the bad people, not me or my family or my friends, but those other people. We think within our hearts that if we are weighed In the scales of justice, the good in our lives will outweigh the bad in our lives, and we will be shown to be basically decent people fit for heaven. But you know, when it comes to these important ideas, there is really nothing more important in life and eternity than these questions of good and evil. And eternal judgment. We shouldn't leave those things up to surveys or popular opinion or the spirit of the age. There's really only one whose opinion matters, and that is God, because He's the judge. And so when it comes to judgment, we need to Need to take seriously what God says in his word. And I know there's a popular misconception that, oh, the Old Testament God was a God of justice and wrath, but the New Testament God is a God of love and grace. Well, Jesus himself spoke more about hell than he did about heaven. And no one in all of the Bible spoke more about hell than Jesus. So we need to take This very seriously. We need to hear what God says. We come to Isaiah 24. We're at the climax of a section that began in chapter 13. And from 13 to 23, over these last several weeks, we've been looking at these chapters that spell out judgment on the nations, judgment on Babylon, judgment on the Philistines. judgment on the Assyrians, judgment on the Syrians, judgment on the Edomites. And the pattern has been like this, okay? Those Syrians are really bad people, so the Assyrians are going to come in and conquer them. But you know those Assyrians are really bad people, so the Babylonians are going to come in and conquer them. Those Babylonians are really bad people, so the Medo-Persians are going to come in and conquer them. That's kind of been the pattern if you've been following. Like this group of people, they've done these bad things, so therefore this other group is going to come in and conquer them as a judgment. Oh, but those other people who come in, they're really bad too, so this other group's going to come in. And at the end of the day, we have to say, wait a minute, where does it all stop? And where it all stops is right here in chapter 24. That's where it all stops. Chapter 25, which we're going to look at next week as our last sermon in Isaiah before we go to the Psalms for the summer, I promise you. If you just look at the title, chapter 25 coming next week is much more positive and hopeful. It gives us the rest of the story where God will swallow up death forever. On the mountain of the Lord of hosts, he will make for all people a feast, and he will swallow up on this mountain death. Forever. That's coming next week in chapter 25. But here we deal first with the reality that judgment is coming. And here's what we read. Let's look at verses 1 to 4 again. Behold, the Lord will empty the earth and make it desolate, and he will twist its surface and scatter itself And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest, as with the slave, so with his master, as with the maid, so with her mistress, as with the buyer, so with the seller. As with the lender, so with the borrower, as with the creditor, so with the debtor. The earth shall be utterly empty and utterly plundered For the Lord has spoken this word. The earth mourns and withers, the world languishes and withers, the highest people of the earth languish. Now, I need to clear up something because some people have come in and have made things unclear. So sometimes if I know that there's people out there who've made things unclear, I need to come in and try to clear up things Bible scholars can be very helpful oftentimes at helping us clarify passages that are not very clear on the surface of it. You read a passage and you think, I don't know what's going on here. And this is where Bible scholars can come in and be helpful and say, well, here's the historical context and here who are these people they're talking about, and here's the flow of history and how this happened. And they can be really great at clarifying unclear passages. Unfortunately, at other times, some Bible scholars can be guilty of making unclear and confusing a passage that is clear enough on its own And I think that's what's happened here in Isaiah 24. Let me explain what I mean by this. Some Bible scholars have said that what's being described in Isaiah 24 is just another temporal judgment, just another judgment within history. And one that's probably going to be against Jerusalem and Judah and Israel. And they say this because they say this word in Hebrew that's translated the earth over and over again. could also be translated as the land. And whenever you read in the Old Testament of the land, it means the land of Israel. And so what he's saying is, well, in 586 the Babylonians are going to come In and remove the people from the land. Or some people have said in A. D. 70 the Romans came in and conquered and they removed and they cleansed the land. And that that's what's being referred to here as one of those temporal end time judgments. But that's just not what we read here. And there's actually one word that makes it clear as clear can be in case we miss it. Yes, you can translate this word translated as the earth, which I think the ESV is right to translate it as the earth. You could translate it as the land. And in the Old Testament, when you read about the land, it is usually talking about the land of Israel. But in verse four, when it says the world languishes and withers That word is universal. That word means the whole world. And so I think it's like clarifying for us that when the earth, the earth, the earth is being used, it means the whole world. And so I think what we have here is a prophecy of the final judgment day that is coming upon the whole earth. As Scripture unfolds, we find out more about this judgment day. It will come when Jesus comes again in his second coming at the end of the world. And when he comes, he will judge all peoples and all nations. And what's clear from this passage Is not only is this judgment universal in scope, the whole earth, the whole world, but also every person of every class and every category is caught in the judgment of the There's this deliberate pairing of master and slave, maid and mistress, borrower and lender, creditor and debtor. He's trying to say it doesn't matter if you're rich or poor, if you're powerful or powerless, if you've been the one oppressing or the one seemingly Who's been oppressed, you're all guilty before God and you're all going to be judged. Now, this is not the only place where the Bible makes it very clear that every single person who has ever lived, save one, Is guilty and deserving of judgment. And probably the clearest place to go for that is Romans chapter 3. So if you have a Bible, turn to Romans 3. I'll give you a minute to get there. Encourage you to follow along. Romans chapter 3. We're going to start in verse 10. Read to verse nineteen, Romans three, ten to nineteen. This is the answer to, I want justice against the big sins which those other people are guilty of. This is what God says. None is righteous, no not one No one understands, no one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave, they use their tongues to deceive, the venom of asps is under their lips, their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood, in their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. Now there is a singular exception to this, which is understood by Paul when he's writing it, but it's made clear other places in Scripture. And that is, there is one who is known as the righteous one. We read about him in 1 John 2, verse 1, which says Dear children, I write these things to you that you may not sin, but if any of us sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. How many righteous? One. And who is he? Jesus Christ. There may be some other people who would say, no, there's a whole group of righteous people called saints, and all of them can advocate for you and intercede. If we sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous one. But what's the focus in Romans 3 is that the whole world is held accountable to God. Now turn with me to Revelation chapter 20. That's at the end of the Bible. Two chapters before the very last chapter. Revelation chapter 20 and at the end of Revelation 20. We're going to start in verse eleven. Then I saw a great white throne, and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away. And no place was found for them. This is a way of poetically saying this is a universal, no place to hide judgment. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to What they had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown in the lake There are books, and there is a book. The books record what people have done in their lives. It's a record of the deeds of everyone's life. And then there's the book of life, the Lamb's Book of Life. That is a list of Of people whose sinful deeds are covered by the blood of the Lamb. And so the book is opened and it says, Jason Van Bemmel. He lied to his parents 75,374 times before the age of 10. That's probably an undercount, honestly. He stole what didn't belong to him and then lied to cover it up He repeatedly coveted what he wasn't given and complained against the goodness of God in his life by grumbling as if he were somehow entitled to more than he was given? He did not love his wife as Christ loved the church. He did not bring up his children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, but too often brought them up according to his own passions. And desires. He was faithless and heartless and ruthless. And he is guilty before the The law of God. But then the book of life would say: Jesus Christ, the righteous one. Has paid for all of his sins with his precious blood And what is in these books is outweighed by what's in this book. Because the only thing greater than my sin and the judgment that I deserve. is the blood of the Son of God who took that judgment on himself, so that I can be free. There is no other way to escape this coming judgment. You can't be rich enough to buy your way out. You can't be powerful enough to peddle your influence out. Every single person will be judged. including those who have died, will be raised from the dead to be judged. And the reason for this judgment is very clear here in Isaiah 24. Look with me at verses 5 and 6. The earth lies defiled under its inhabitants, for they have transgressed the laws. violated the statutes, broken the everlasting covenant, therefore a curse devours the earth, and its inhabitants suffer for their guilt Therefore the inhabitants of the earth are scorched, and few men are left. If you want to know the cause for something in the Bible There's two key words to look for, for and therefore. And here, to highlight this cause, we get a for in front of it and a therefore after it. The earth lies defiled under its inhabitants. A curse devours the earth. That's the reality of the world we live in. People who want to say, well, if there is a good God, Who is all powerful? Why is the world so messed up? The answer to that is because the earth lies defiled under its inhabitants, and the whole earth is under a curse. Why? The reason is given right in the middle. For they have transgressed the laws, violated the statutes, broken the everlasting Covenant. God is going to judge absolutely everyone. The sign that this is coming is the fact that the whole world, even now, is mourning and withering and languishing as it lies defiled under the inhabitants. Of the world, that is people. And why? Why is God going to judge? Because people have broken the law of God. They've violated the statutes of God. They've broken the everlasting covenant. Therefore, a curse is devouring the earth now, and judgment is coming. There will be a few men left. That's those who are redeemed. But the inhabitants of the earth are under this curse. God created all people in his image. To imitate him and to reflect his righteous character in our thoughts, words, and actions. Get a little bit lighthearted for a moment. We all drive cars, right? Cars have a purpose, right? You put gas in them, or you plug them into your house, right? And they take you someplace. They go, right? Now, what would you do with a car that when you started it said, man, I'm tired, just leave me alone. Or you put it into reverse to back up down your driveway and it decided to go forward and hit your garage. Or you're going down the road and all of a sudden it just decides to quit. I had that happen to me once, by the way. It's going down 543. in a old Chrysler that I was driving and the tie rod end came completely separated. It stopped Thankfully I got off the road. But what do we do with cars that act like that? What do we do with those kind of cars? We try to fix them, but if we can't fix them. We junk them, right? And that's a lighthearted example, but here's the truth. You and I were made for a reason. We were made for a purpose. We were made by God in his image, and our purpose is to reflect the good character of God over his creation. And to spread his influence in the world. God is truth, we are to speak truth. God is righteous, we are to be righteous. God is love, we are to be loving. God is just, we are to work for justice. Do we do that? God's told us actually how to do that in more specific ways, because he knows that we the abstract because So he's told us in ten clear words what we're supposed to do and what we're not supposed to do if we want to reflect his image. First of all, we're forbidden from worshiping any other God but the one true God. Which means nothing else should have a place of honor, adoration, and worship in our hearts but Him. Second, we're forbidden from worshiping God in ways that we create with our hands and not ways that are laid out in His Word. Third, we're forbidden from taking God's name in vain Which we talked about earlier. Fourth, we're commanded to keep the Sabbath day holy as a day of worship and rest in the Lord. We're commanded to work hard the other six days of the week, work hard for six days, and then rest on the seventh. Fifth, we are commanded to honor our fathers and mothers, and by extension, all of those who are in authority over us. We are actually promised a blessing if we honor our fathers and mothers and everybody who's in authority over us. We are forbidden from unlawfully taking the life of those who are made in God's image Which Jesus tells us we are guilty of doing whenever we hate someone in our hearts or we curse them. Which Jesus tells us we do if we look lustfully on someone else. In other words, we can't commit adultery in our hearts and minds. Or with our bodies. We're forbidden from unlawfully taking that which does not belong to us, which can include someone else's property or someone else's time or reputation or creations. Ninth, we are forbidden from lying, especially lying about other people in a way that harms their reputation or good name by bearing false witness against them, which we do through gossip or slander. And tenth We are forbidden from desiring anything which God has not given to us. You know, I think that the tenth commandment is what it is, as a catch in case we think we're sliding past the others. Right? You shall not covet. that belongs to your neighbor. Okay, they got me. It's like the little barb on the end of a fishing hook. It's just you think you're sliding past and it catches you. But when it catches you you realize actually I've been guilty of all of the other ones too. Because when I covet something that doesn't belong to me, I am in my mind stealing it from the person it rightfully belongs to and making it my I'm also saying to God that I value this thing that I want for myself more than Him and what He's given me, which means I'm not worshiping Him, but I'm worshiping this thing. I'm being faithless and I'm guilty. Now you might say, well, not everyone has the Ten Commandments. Not everyone has the Word of God. There's lots of people in the world who don't know anything about God, who don't have the scriptures. How can God judge them? Right? How can God judge people who've never heard of Jesus? Have you ever heard that one? How can God judge people who've never heard of Jesus, who don't have the Bible? Well, Romans 2 actually tells us very explicitly. Romans 2, 12-15 says this: For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law. And all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. Why is that? For it is not the hearers of the law who are justified before God, but the doers of the law. Okay? Now he says, for when Gentiles, those are those who don't have the law of God For when Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves. Even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts. Parents, how old were your children when you first heard them say, that's not fair? Pretty young? Right? Now, how many of you ever heard your children say That's not fair. You gave me a bigger piece of cake than my brother. Let me cut off some of my cake and give it to him. Anybody? Or, that's not fair. I have five Hot Wheels cars and my brother only has two. Let me give him some. The fact that we cry out from the heart, that's not fair, shows that the law of God is written on our hearts. But the fact that by nature, man, that law is a one-way street. Shows that we are guilty of breaking the very law that we have written on our hearts. Because the one thing that your kids probably said before they said that's not fair. fair was a single word, and that word was mine. By nature. We're all by nature selfish, corrupt, greedy. We all break the law of God that we know to be true and good over and over again. We're continually lying to ourselves and to others. We're continually disregarding the other. We're continually resenting and rebelling against authority, coveting, lusting, failing to honor God as He is due with our worship, our words, our tongues. And we may excuse all of these as only little sins. And we may think it would be cruel to be judged for a little white lie or a little bit of harmless covenant, but the truth of our condition. is much worse and we know it. We are habitual, regular, daily lawbreakers, career, lifelong cosmic criminals. Stoppers. Hi. If I were to decide this week that you know I need to supplement my income and I decide to go and rob seven or eight banks throughout Harford County. Um would would you have a duty to arrest me and put me in jail Okay, twelve percent, and I'm only gonna give you eleven percent. So you arrest me and put me in jail, right? But I say, you've heard me use this illustration before, but it's just so helpful to me. But I say, come on, Sabros, I didn't shoot anybody. What's the big deal? Nobody got killed, right? Is that going to fly? If I go before the judge? If I go before the judge, armed robbery on seven counts. Okay, but no murder. Didn't rape anybody either. Haven't stolen a car. Can we make a list, judge, of all the laws I didn't break? Doesn't work that way. Like we know it doesn't work that way. And yet we somehow think that's going to work with God. So wrapping up, I've spent a long time on the early verses of this chapter. I'm going to breeze through the last parts. That's what we deserve. And because we deserve that, judgment is coming. And when judgment comes, it's going to have a double effect. When the judgment of God comes, it has a double effect. One is it removes all joy and all mirth from the people who have been in rebellion against God. The wine mourns, the vine languishes, all the merry-hearted sigh, all the way down to verse 13, 7 to 13. All joy and all cause of joy, all security, all satisfaction, all music is all taken away. Why? Because they're guilty before God. Here's a truth that I think we as people forget very easily, and that is, where does everything good in our lives come from? Where does everything good in our lives come from? God. So if you eat One of those home-baked cookies over there after the worship service, and you enjoy the taste of that, and it makes you you go, mm, that's from God, right? I saw Hannah hugging her grandmother earlier. The fact that Ruth is with us and is healthy, and the fact that we can hug our grandparents and our grandkids, that's from God. The fact that we can enjoy music. Music and singing is from God. The fact that we have air to breathe and we have life to live is all from God. People who say in their hearts and with their lives, I do not want God I don't want God to rule over me. I don't want God telling me what to do. I just want God out of my life, which is what sin is ultimately saying. People who say that You know, the worst thing that can happen is that you get what you want. And God says, okay, I'm out. But when you don't have God, you don't have any of his blessings or any of his benefits anymore. So there you go, some people who joke around and be like, Man, I can't wait to go to hell. All my friends are going to be there. It's going to be a party time. Hey, no such thing as a friend, and there's no such thing as a party. Because the laughter that you enjoyed with your friends was given to you by God and you told God you didn't want him. And so the only thing that's left is desolation and darkness and gloom and misery. Forever. Because when we don't have God, we don't have any of his benefits. Except for those who do have God For those who recognize their need for salvation, for those who cry out to God, Judgment Day brings a very deep Different story. And we get this in verses 14 to 16. They lift up their voices, they sing for joy over the magic They shout from the west. Therefore, in the east, give glory to the Lord. In the coastlands of the sea, give glory to the The name of the Lord, the God of Israel, from the ends of the earth we hear songs of praise, of glory to the righteous one. Who is the righteous one? Jesus Christ. Because He has paid for all of our sins, He has redeemed us, He has reconciled us to God, we are forgiven, we are made whole, we will be able to stand. Stand in the day of judgment and even sing and rejoice. Because here is what the cry of our heart is. If you really belong to God, here's how you know. Like at a very basic level, it is a subjective test, right? But here it is at a very basic level. If truly in your heart Your heart's cry and the trajectory of your life is: I really don't want God. How do I get God away from me? I really don't want to deal with God. You know, some people are very religious because they think it'll get God off their back. If I go to church and I check that box, will God just leave me alone the rest of the week? If I give 10%, like the full 10% of the tithe, will God just let me do what I want to do with the other 90%? Like there's a heart cry that says, how do I get God to leave me alone? Okay? And then there's a very different heart cry that says, Oh, I want more of Jesus in my life. I'm so tired of the things that keep How do I get rid of those things that keep me from God so that I can have more of God in my life? How can I have a deeper walk with Him? How can I have a closer fellowship with Him? How can I love him more for as much as he has loved me? I hate this sin, I hate this ugliness, I just want it gone from my life. The thing is, both of those sets of people will get their heart's desire on Judgment Day And so that's why, while most of the world is languishing, there are those who lift up their voices and sing for joy, because we get And who we've been wanting to have more and more of, and now we get to have more and more of Him, which is more joy, more peace, more life More delight in the one who made us and who sustains us. And next week we'll look more at that in chapter 25. But the final warning of chapter 24 as we close is simply this. The day is coming. Verse 21, on that day the Lord will punish. The hosts of heaven in heaven and the kings of the earth on the earth, they will be gathered together as prisoners in a pit. They will be shut up in a prison, and after many days they will be punished, or they will keep on being punished. Then the moon will be confounded, the sun will be ashamed. For the Lord of hosts reigns on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and his glory will be before his elders. This is definite. The Lord will punish. They will be punished. His glory will be before his Elders. Every one of you, I can promise you this. I can promise you, not on my own confidence, but on the basis of the Word of God, I can promise you this. One day you will stand before Jesus. You will see him face to face. You will stand before him. And the cry of your heart will be seen for all to know. And that will be either I love you. Jesus. I've been waiting to see you. I can't wait to be with you forever. Or it will be, oh, why are you here to judge me? I can't stand And you get out of my life. And that cry of your heart will be exposed plainly. And you will either be locked away in the everlasting pit of punishment, or you will be brought in to the glory of the Lord with his gathered people on Mount Zion. I promise you that day is coming. The only question is, where will you be on that day? What is the cry of your heart, and how will it be revealed on that day? If you don't know, if you wonder, then here's what you need to do. As I close us in prayer and as we sing, you in your heart talk to God. And you say, I want to I want to be yours. I want more of Jesus. I want more of you in my life. I'm so tired of the things that keep me away from you. My sin, my selfishness, the world, distractions. I want more more of you. Would you please make me more and more yours day by day until that day when I see you face to face If you will cry out to him like that, the Lord promises us everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. So if you cry out to him like that today, right now, you will Be saved, and you will enter into eternal glory on that day. You don't need to earn it, you can't earn it. Jesus did all the work already. You just have to cry out to him. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, who are we? Lawless sinners But you love us. You love us enough that you gave your Son for us. You love us enough that you sent your Spirit to call us to yourself. You love us enough to tell us the truth. about who we are and about what we need and about what is coming in the future. You are a wonderful Savior. And you are a righteous God who is steadfast in your love and faithful in all of your ways. Us right now would cry out to you from our hearts and would say, Lord God, I need you. Save me Make me more and more yours day by day. Keep me from the things that distract me and deceive me. Keep me from those things that keep me from you. Thank you for Jesus, my Savior, who's paid for all of my sins. Thank you for his perfect righteousness that covers me. Strengthen my faith in you. Reassure me of your love for me. I want You more and more in my life. In Jesus' name. Amen.