Isaiah sixty-six, verses one to fourteen. This is the Word of God. Thus says the Lord, Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What is the house that you would build for me? And what is the place of my rest? All these things my hand has made, and so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. But this is the one to whom I will look He who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. He who slaughters an ox is like one who kills a man. He who sacrifices a lamb like one who breaks a dog's neck. He who presents a grain offering like one who offers pig's blood. He who makes a memorial offering of frankincense like one who blesses an idol. These have chosen their own ways, and their soul delights in their abominations. I will also choose harsh treatment for them and bring their fears upon them because when I called, no one answered. When I spoke, they did not listen, but they did what was evil in my eyes and chose that in which I did not delight. Hear the word of the Lord, you who tremble at his word, your brothers who hate you And cast you out for my name's sake, have said, Let the Lord be glorified, that we may see your joy. But it is they who shall be put to shame. The sound of an uproar from the city, a sound from the temple, the sound of the Lord rendering recompense to his enemies. Before she was in labor, she gave birth. Before her birth pain came upon her, she delivered a son. Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a nation be brought forth in one moment? For as soon as Zion was in labor, she brought forth her children. Shall I bring to the point of birth and not What cause to bring forth, says the Lord. Shall I who cause to bring forth shut the womb? says your God, rejoice with Jerusalem and be glad for her. All you who love her, rejoice with her in Joy, all you who mourn over her, that you may nurse and be satisfied from her consoling breast, that you may drink deeply with delight from her glorious abundance. For thus says the Lord, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream And you shall nurse, and you shall be carried upon her hip and bounced upon her knees. As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you. You shall be comforted in In Jerusalem. You shall see, and your heart shall rejoice, your bones shall flourish like the grass, and the hand of the Lord shall be known to his servants, and he shall show his indignation against his servants. His enemies. Let's pray. Father, you love your people. But you despise hypocritical, self-righteous, flattering worship Because you want our hearts, you want us to tremble at your word, to rejoice in your promises, to obey your commands. So, Holy Spirit, please Please work in our hearts as we contemplate your word, as we hear from you. May you speak, please speak, O Lord, to our hearts That we might be more like Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated Have you ever had someone flatter you? Feels nice at first, doesn't it? Someone like buttering you up, saying nice things to you. But when you realize what's really going on, then how do you feel? Why do people flatter? Why would someone flatter you? Well, it's one of two things. Either they want you to accept them. But they're afraid that you won't accept them for who they are or as they are, and so they they butter you up, they kiss up, they sort of flatter you in the hopes that you'll you'll accept them Or they want something from you. Which is especially true of children, if your children are ever flattering you. Like, okay, what do you want? How much is it going to cost me? But flattery when when you know, especially if if you think someone genuinely likes you and is being nice to you, and then you find out later that they were just flattering you because they wanted something from you, that is very disheartening. And it really turns all of their niceness into something repulsive. When that person comes up to you and begins to talk nice, it's like, ugh. You don't it doesn't it doesn't sound good. You don't like it because you know there's an agenda. You know they're just trying to get something from you Well, the Lord hates flattery. And it doesn't take him some period of time to figure out if he's being flattered or not. He knows our hearts better than we do. And before we open our mouths to flatter the Lord, he sees through it. Flattery is a kind of hypocrisy. We learned a little bit about hypocrisy in Sunday school this morning. Shocking that our Sunday school lesson was connected to the sermon, I know. But David taught us this morning that to be a hypocrite is to be a stage actor. A mask wearer, someone who, in in the Greek theater, they had these large stone masks that they would put over top of their heads. And so they stood under this character. That they weren't who they were actually being. They're being this other person. And that's what hypocrisy is. Hypocrisy is being something that you're not. And flattery is a form of that. It's a form of hypocrisy that is trying to butter someone up, trying to either get them to accept you or to get them to give you what you want. One way that the people of God in Israel's day were trying to flatter God, that they thought that they would gain acceptance from God through this, was through the temple. Through a building. They had built this temple in the days of Solomon. It had stood for hundreds of years by this time. The inside of the holy place was all covered with gold. I can't imagine what that's like to walk into a room and every surface area is covered with gold. gold. And there's candlelight in there. So the candlelight is reflecting off of the gold. And they were impressed. And they thought God had to be impressed too. I mean after all he's the one who gave the directions for how to build this building. Lord willing, in little less than two weeks' time, in our 12 and a half hour layover in Istanbul, we're planning a little side excursion to go visit Hagia Sophia Which is one of the great buildings in the world. Was built as a church in the 520s and 530s. So imagine that a building that was built in the early 500s. At the time that it was built, Hagia Sophia was the largest interior space in the world. A massive dome. And it remained the largest interior space in the world for a thousand years. It wasn't until the Cathedral of Seville in Spain was built in the 1500s that Hagia Sophia was surpassed. So I am looking forward to going there and seeing this awesome building. But there's A bit of a problem in that the Byzantine church, over time, they began to think, oh, you know, God's really impressed with us because we built this Hagia Sophia. A thousand years after the Hagia Sophia, the Roman Catholic Church built St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, which is another massive, huge Impressive building. Now to fund it, they had to do this little thing called selling indulgences. Basically, get out of purgatory credits. that you could buy. And that that actually triggered the whole Reformation because Martin Luther was so distressed that his people would go and buy indulgences and not realize that Christ had set them free from Condemnation. And so building a building is a way to try to impress God. And in Isaiah's day, they would hear words of condemnation, but they would say Oh, the Lord's never going to destroy Jerusalem because the temple of the Lord is here. And they even had a chant that they would do. The temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. And so God says, heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What is the house that you would build for me? What is the place of my rest? You see, the Jewish people had come to think of the Ark of the Covenant that was sitting inside the Holy of Holies as the footstool of God. And symbolically It was, but they began to think literally like this is where the feet of God touch the earth. It's the footstool of God. And he says, No, no, no, you got way too small. The whole earth is my footstool. Heaven is my throne. The heavens, the vast expanses of the heavens are the throne of God. We can't build a building that would house God or impress God or cause him to have to accept us or worse yet to cause him to want to give us what we want. The other way that people try to flatter God is by offerings, by sacrifices. That's the second thing that God addresses here in verse 3, when he says, He who slaughters an ox is like he who kills a man, he who sacrifices a lamb like one who breaks a dog's neck. He who presents a grain offering like one who offers pig's blood, he who makes a memorial offering of incense of frankincense, like one who blesses an idol. Why? Because they've chosen their own way, and their soul delights in abominations. So coming to worship, you can have the rightly prescribed offering, a spotless lamb, a firstborn bull from the herd, you know, a grain offering of the finest of wheat, and God says, you know what, I look on that, and you might as well be killing a person. Or sprinkling pig's blood, which is the most unclean thing, or breaking a dog's neck Because what you're doing is completely hypocritical. Now we don't bring sacrifices to church anymore. I'm really glad I've mentioned this before. I'm really glad I'm not looking Old Testament priests because you had to like slaughter animals and spread blood everywhere. So glad that Jesus put an end to all that. But what do we do? Sometimes we we think if we give God enough of our time Enough of our money, enough of our service, that he'll have to accept us Or he'll have to give us what we want. Very often, it's very common, very human. People are praying for something, and they really want this something. And so they'll say, well, I really want God to give me this prayer request, this thing that I'm praying for, so I'll make sure I go to church every Sunday. And I'll put the full tithe in. And I'll even show up and volunteer, be part of the setup team. Because I really want God to give me this thing that I'm praying for. It's not what God's looking for. That's not what impresses him. What is he looking for? What does impress him? Well, right in between. These two examples of hypocritical flattery, God tells us. Verse 2 But this is the one to whom I will look, he who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word And then he addresses again his people in verse 5 by saying, Hear the word of the Lord, you who tremble at his word. Humility and contrition before God trembles at His Word. and in different ways corresponding to what the word from the Lord is. When we hear the gospel, when we hear God loved you so much that He gave His one and only Son to give his life for you so that there's now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus and you are not saved by your good works but by grace alone through faith. faith alone in Christ, when we hear these words of gospel promise, we tremble with with it's too good to be true. How could God give such grace to me? Knowing as much as I've sinned, knowing what's in my heart, how can God have given his son who gave his life to give life to me? How can God forgive all of my sins for me? freely and fully because of the blood of Jesus. How I tremble with joy and delight and almost unbelief at the goodness of the gospel. And when God makes promises to us of what He has for us in the future, we we tremble with anticipation that those things will actually come to be because if if he who did not spare his own son but freely gave him up for us all, how will he not, along with him, also graciously give us all things? That's what Romans 8. 32 says. So We say, yes, God didn't withhold his son. He's certainly not going to withhold the other promises he has in store for us. And we tremble with anticipation and delight at the joy. And when God gives us a command, We tremble because we realize I don't keep this command. I fall short of this and I should be. For all that God has done for me. For all that God has given me, for all that God is to me, I should be wholeheartedly and joyfully keeping this command, but instead I sort of drag my feet and do it half-heartedly and begrudgingly or not at all, and I tremble under the thought that I would offend such a one who is so good to me. And that's what God wants. He says that's that's the kind of person I pay attention to. That's the kind of person I listen to and I take care of because they really love me and they give me They're not trying to buy me off. They're not trying to put on a show and convince me of how good they are. They're not trying to act like they've got it together, and so of course I would bless them because who else am I going to bless? Those people over there? No. None of that self-righteous, hypocritical flattery carries any weight with God. God sees through that kind of worship. And he comforts those who are humble. Now, what's interesting is we have here in this passage I think some pretty specific words that we see pretty clearly fulfilled in the life of Jesus and the early church. Look at verse 5. Hear the word of the Lord, you who tremble at my at his word. Your brothers who hate you and cast you out for my name's sake have said Let the Lord be glorified, that we may see your joy. But it is they who shall be put to shame. The people who are in authority Took the Lord Jesus and cast him out. They cast him out. They hung him on a cross. And then what did they say in their mockery He saved others. He can't save himself. Let him call upon God and see if God will save him that we might believe in him. Let's see if God's going to come to his rescue since he's the Son of God. They were mocking him even And they were doing so in ways that they were convinced that they were on God's side And Jesus told his disciples, they're going to cast you out of the synagogue, and the time's coming when those who actually put you to death are going to think that they're doing service to God. So we see that with Stephen, the first martyr in Acts 7. He was stoned to death by the Sanhedrin, and they thought they were glorifying God. As they cast them out, and then they cast stones at him. But God sees. God notices. God hears. He says, it is they who shall be put to shame. The sound of an uproar from the city, a sound from the temple, the sound of the Lord rendering recompense to us. His enemies. One way in which we've seen this fulfilled in history was that those same people who crucified the Lord Jesus and those same people who stoned Stephen to death and who trusted in their beautiful, glorious temple. A few decades later, in the year 70, the Romans destroyed Jerusalem, destroyed the temple, and the temple's never been rebuilt. We can see it in other ways, like the Byzantine Empire, it fell. And now the Hagia Sophia that they thought was their glorious offering to God as a mosque, and has been for 500 years. The great cathedrals of Europe are mostly empty tourist attractions. And the few that are still functioning as churches are not really glorifying God Because ultimately it's not the things we do with our hands, the things we build, the things we offer that God is looking for. He's looking for our hearts. He's looking for our hearts. The second thing we see in God keeping his promise to his people comes in this next section. Looking at verse 7. Before she was in labor, she gave birth. Before her birth pain came upon her, she delivered a son. Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a nation be brought forth in one moment? For as soon as Zion was in labor, she brought forth her children. I can see Pentecost there. The Lord Jesus ascended into heaven and he gave his disciples the promise of the Holy Spirit. He said, wait here in Jerusalem. Because the Holy Spirit is going to be poured out on you. Now, at this time, the Sanhedrin, the Pharisees, the scribes, the rulers of the Jewish people, they thought they had won. They thought it was over. They thought, oh, we crucified this Jesus. Yeah, there were rumors about his resurrection, but we've kind of stamped those out somewhat. And all of his followers are do they're hiding in fear. They're just waiting to be arrested. This thing is we've got it. Done and dusted. We're good to go And then ten days after Jesus ascends back into heaven, a rumbling sound and a gust of wind. And the Holy Spirit is poured out on the church. And before anything There's this crowd of people gathered together, thousands and thousands of people gather together. What is going on here? What is happening before the church has even done anything at all? Here's this Gathered crowd of thousands of people ready to hear from them. And so Peter gets up and he delivers the first sermon of the New Testament age, and 3,000 people Repent of their sins and are baptized in the name of Jesus and are added to the church in a single day. Within the space of just a couple of hours, more people are added To the followers of Jesus, then Jesus himself was able to gather in three years of earthly ministry. God says, I'm going to bring you to the point of birth and I'm going to bring something on you. that you would never have expected. And so the New Testament church is born in a moment. And ever since then, it's been growing. The glory of the nations are coming into it. Sometimes that looks like a group of hundreds of believers gathered under mango trees. to hear the word of the Lord. Sometimes it looks like 50 people gathered in a tent. to hear the word of the Lord. One of the things I love about going to Uganda is you never know exactly where you might be called to preach. So I preached under mango trees, uh Lord willing on uh Monday the sixteenth. Our plan is to have a gathering of disciples under a couple of mango trees in the Yumbay district and do a day-long teaching through Romans. Gathered in churches that are tents, like US military tents, over there in the middle of nowhere, but the church gathered in to worship. And again, sometimes it is in buildings. Sometimes it's in beautiful buildings. It's not the present or absence of building, but it's It's the presence or absence of of the Holy Spirit and of people believing the promises of God and of God's purposes going forth. What happened at Pentecost should be a powerful reminder to us that there is no opposition in the world. That can stop the spread of the kingdom of God to the glory of God. There is no amount of political oppression, there's no amount of persecution, there's no amount of oh the whole system stacked against against us. None of that matters. If God is at work and God pours out his Holy Spirit and the gospel is faithfully proclaimed and people come to faith in Jesus, God's promises will not fail They will not fail. And so we can think, oh, America's post-Christian and people are deconstructing and the churches are struggling. And you know, if God works, None of that matters. And maybe some of what's been lost wasn't pleasing to him in the first place. And what he's doing is powerful and will last forever. So the end of our passage is really a powerful call from God To join in his church. He's telling us that he will not be frustrated and what he's doing. And then the last part of our passage, verses 10 to 14, is a call to us to join in with his church. Rejoice with Jerusalem. Be glad for her, all you who love her. Rejoice with her. Enjoy all you who mourn over her. that you may nurse and be satisfied from her consoling breast, that you may drink deeply with delight from her glorious abundance. For thus says the Lord, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream, and you shall nurse and you shall be carried upon her hip and bounced upon her knees as one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you. You shall be comforted in Jerusalem. You shall see And your heart shall rejoice, your bones shall flourish like the grass, and the hand of the Lord shall be known to his servants, and he shall show his indignation against their enemies. We are called here to delight in the church, to grow from the church, because God's promise is with and for his people. And if we turn to Acts 2, we can see that this is exactly what God does. Look at Acts 2 with me, and you'll see that Pentecost happens, and Peter's sermon happens, but then what? Verse 41: So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship. To the breaking of bread and the prayers. And awe came upon every soul. And many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles, and all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all as any had need, and day by day attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food. with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved They didn't just come to the Lord, but they came to the Lord and became committed to one another with one. Within the church. Now their commitments were of a biblical and a godly order to them. What was the first thing they were devoted to? The apostles' teaching. That means the first devotion for any church is to the Word of God. We must be sitting under, receiving, being fed by, being nourished in, being growing in the Word of God. But it's also to the fellowship. The koinania, the the one-anothering, the togetherness. We are called to Belong to one another. Later in Paul's letters, you find that whenever he's evaluating a group of believers, he's always looking for two distinguishing marks that they are genuine believers. And it is faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and love for one another. It's always that. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and love for one another. And what do we have here? Devoted to the apostles' teachings. And to the fellowship, and to the breaking of bread and the prayers. And I believe that's a reference to the Lord's Supper and to the prayers of God's gathered people. It is the ordinary means of grace, is another way of talking about this, but it is the life of the church. And there's really nothing ordinary about it, although it's not spectacular, it's not signs and wonders that are the primary driver here. It is Being devoted to God's Word, to one another, to gathered worship, to table fellowship, and there is a blind Blessing. There's growth. There's meeting one another's needs. And you know that. If you have really plugged in and you have really become a part of the fellowship of this body, you have seen We have seen ways in which people are praying for one another, people are giving meals to one another, people are meeting together in one another's homes to share their lives together. People are studying the word together. People are growing together. And we want to see that more and more. We're fed by the word as it's preached. We're encouraged by the gathering in worship, we're comforted by one another in sweet fellowship and mutual support. But you know what doesn't work and what short circuits that Mask wearing. When we come to church under a mask, thinking that we're gonna impress everybody, including God, I've got it all together. I know what I'm doing. There's not a humility that trembles at the Word of God. There's also not an openness to share one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. And so this this passage is telling us our building or lack thereof You know, nothing that we do. Mission trips we go on, if they're not done in the spirit, obediently, work that we do, money we give. They're only good if they flow from the heart. And what kind of heart? A heart that trembles at his word A heart that says, I, a sinner, am in awe of my Savior and in love with his people. And so thankful to be here. That I want to love God and I want to love others. I'm not trying to impress God. This is our closing question. Are you trying to impress God or trust him? Those are two very different things. I'm going to show God how good I am. I'm going to show God how good I can be. I'm going to show God how God's not impressed. God knows you far better than you know yourself. What he wants you to do is trust him, which is not the same thing. We say, I can't, but you can. I need and you have. So you don't come with to God thinking, oh, if I If I say this right words, or if I give this right gift, or if I act in this right way, or if I build this right thing, you'll have to give me what I'm looking for. God says, I have what you need. It might not be what you're looking for, but I have what you need. I have milk, I have meat, I have manna, I have nourishment for your souls, I have comforts, I have joy, and I will freely give them to you. Just stop trying to impress me and start trusting me That's the call from this passage. A heart that trembles at his word, that worships him for who he is, and that loves and is committed to his people. That's the kind of church that the the Lord is calling us to be. And as we grow in that, we're already seeing, and we will continue to see the blessing that flows from that together. Will we trust him? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, gracious God. You've been good to us. So much better than we deserve. You've given us your Son. You've given us your Spirit. You've given us your word. You've given us one another. These are all blessings and treasures beyond all earthly wealth. You've been so good to us. And in response to that, Lord, you call us to tremble at your word, to trust you. To fear you with that right and holy fear that desires to please you and to walk with you by faith, to trust you, not to impress you. Not to pretend that we are better than we are, but to be hungry for the food that you offer, to be thirsty for the water that you pour out. And to love the people that you've given us to love. We pray that we would do so to the glory of your name. In Jesus' name. Amen.