Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Vemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is good to be with you. We are here on day 1089. We're down to less than 10, just seven or so, devotionals left in our three-year journey through the Word of God. Our final one. We'll be 1096. So we have Zechariah 13, and that's the last chapter in Zechariah before us today. Let's pray and ask the Lord's help as we turn to his word today. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Your word is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. Your word is powerful and transformative. And we need your word. We need your word to speak truth to us. To challenge us and to change us by the power of your Holy Spirit. We pray that you would do this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Zechariah thirteen. So verse one we actually did at the end of chapter twelve, but On that day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness. And on that day, declares the Lord of hosts, I will cut off the names of the idols from the land, so that they shall be remembered no more. And also I will remove from the land the prophets and their spirit of uncleanness. And if any one again prophesies, his father and mother who bore him will say to him, You shall not live, for you speak lies in the name of the Lord. and his father and mother who bore him shall pierce him through when he prophesies. On that day every prophet will be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies He will not put on a hairy cloak in order to deceive, but he will say, I am no prophet, I am a worker of the soil. For a man sold me in my youth And if one asks him, what are these wounds on your back, he will say, the wounds I received in the house of my friends. Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who stands next to me, declares the Lord of hosts. Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. I will turn my hand against the little ones. In the whole land, declares the Lord, two-thirds shall be cut off and perish. and one third shall be left alive, and I will put this third into the fire, and refine them as one refines silver, and test them as gold is tested. They will call upon my name, and I will answer them I will say, they are my people. And they will say, the Lord is my God. Zechariah 13 doesn't really get any easier than Zechariah 12. We are dealing with that day, which is the day of the Lord, which is the day of salvation. but also judgment. A major theme throughout Scripture is that God's salvation comes through judgment. When God brings judgment upon the world, he saves his people through that judgment. So we can see this in the flood with Noah and the Ark. We can see it at the Tower of Babel with the scattering. But then one line of those who are scattered becomes the holy line. We can see it. Through the Exodus from Egypt, how there are plagues, and then the the last plague, which leads to the Passover, and then the parting of the Red Sea, where God's people pass through the waters, which are then the judgment. We can see it in the conquest of Canaan. God saves his people through judgment. And there's a theme here that continues. God redeems his people. Cuts off the idols from the land, opens a fountain to cleanse from sin and uncleanness. Much of this is accomplished when Jesus comes the first time. So So when Jesus comes, I I would just say this way, instead of saying the first time, the coming of Christ is the day of the Lord. The coming of Christ is that day of salvation. And there really is the coming that has already happened. There's the coming that is happening, and there's the coming that will happen. And in one sense, instead of looking at the first coming and the second coming, which is true in terms of his physical coming to earth, Christ came. But then forty days uh after or ten days after he ascended, fifty days after his resurrection, ten days after he ascended, he poured out the Holy Spirit, which was his coming to his church to empower, which is why the book of Acts is really a continuation of the Gospel of Luke and a continuation of what Jesus is doing. And so Jesus is with his church by the presence of his Holy Spirit. until he comes again physically and culminates. So there's the inauguration of that day, there's the un Unfolding of that day, and then there's the consummation of that day. There's the coming that's already happened, there's the coming that is happening as the gospel spreads to every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, and then there's the coming again. in judgment. And so in the Old Testament we have this collapsed horizon of prophetic literature where the the distinctions between these things are not really clear. It's all sort of condensed into uh into this one One picture, but really there's different phases to it or different stages of the unfolding of it. So Jesus dies, and that cleanses us from sin and uncleanness. The people of God forget about the idols. When when the people of God moved by the Holy Spirit, out of paganism, out of idolatry. We forget the names of those idols and we come to worship the living God. There's also a cessation of prophecy. Now you don't want to hang too much on this particular passage because it's a difficult passage, and you don't want to put a lot of doctrinal weight on a difficult passage that's subject to multiple interpretations. But I do think that the scripture teaches us at the end of Revelation, in 1 Corinthians 13, in uh other places that that prophecy was for a time, for a time. until the word of God was complete and scripture was finished, and then there's no more prophetic word because there's no need for a new word from the Lord. We're just waiting for the Lord to finish his work and return. And so I think this is talking about that. There's no more prophets. There's no more idolatry, pagan idolatry. There's also no more prophets, but then the the the vision sort of shifts and this happens a lot in apocalyptic literature where the vision will shift suddenly and now we're looking at Christ who was a prophet But who didn't really identify as a prophet. And he was wounded. He was wounded on his back. with wounds that he received in the house of his friends. He was the shepherd who was struck, and then the sheep scattered. Jesus quoted this Verse, Zechariah 13, 7, on the night he was betrayed in the Garden of Gethsemane, the shepherd will be struck and the sheep will be scattered. And then there comes a time of tribulation. We know that Israel, as a nation, underwent a great time of tribulation And from sixty-eight to seventy A. D. when they were judged by God for for their uh for their treatment of Christ, their rejection of Christ, and they were and they were driven largely out of the land. But also God's people in the church were subject to tribulation and have been. subject to tribulation. But there were times when when just a great number of Christians were persecuted, and then even those who survived were were refined and were tested. So again, salvation comes through judgment. Even as the gospel advances, even as salvation reaches new people, and people turn their backs on their idols and turn to the Lord and find cleansing. There is trial and tribulation testing that that does lead to the false professors, the false believers falling away, apostasy. but then to the true believers being refined and strengthened. What how do we respond to this? We need to respond to this by seeing that the only cleansing that's available to us is in the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to leave behind our idolatry and worship the Lord. We need to stop looking for new words from God, because that's often how false prophets come in. Everybody today who's in the world who's claiming to be a prophet and who's saying they have new prophecy from the Lord, they are false prophets. If you subject them to the test of a prophet, they fail. They cannot actually accurately and reliably predict things that are going to come because they are not prophets of God. They are false prophets. So we need to trust in the cleansing that comes from the Lord Jesus. Leave behind our idolatry and worldliness. Don't look for new prophetic words from God, but look to the scriptures that are complete and fulfilled, and be prepared. That there may be trial, testing, tribulation awaiting us. But, as Revelation says, blessed is the one who perseveres to the end, for he will be saved. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the call of Zechariah 13 and for the challenge it issues to us to be faithful to Christ, to seek the cleansing that comes only from his blood. to turn our back on the world and its idols, to look to your written word that is the true source of all we need for life and godliness and to persevere even through trial and temptation and tribulation. Give us the grace to do this, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Amen. Well, that is Zechariah 13. Tomorrow we're going to go right on to Zechariah 14 and wrap up this last next to last Old Testament book. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.