Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you could be with us today for day number 1078. as we are continuing in the wonderful Old Testament prophet of Zechariah, probably one of the most overlooked of the minor prophets and yet one of the most important, especially A lot of people like the book of Revelation. They think, oh, we I want to understand Revelation. What's Revelation all about? Well, so much of the image of Revelation comes from Zechariah. People will go to Daniel and get some answers there and Ezekiel, and those are those are true and helpful, but a lot of it, a lot of it comes from Zechariah. So let's pray and then we'll dig in to chapter 5 today Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your faithfulness to us, for the excellence of your word. Thank you for your spirit who works within us to glorify Christ in the world. We pray that you would write Zechariah 6 deeply on our hearts, that you would draw our hearts closer to Jesus through our time that we spend together with you today. And we pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah 5. Again I lifted my eyes and saw and behold a flying scroll. And he said to me, What do you see? I answered, I see a flying scroll. Its length is twenty cubits, and its width ten cubits. Then he said to me, This is the curse that goes out over the face of the whole land, for everyone who steals shall be cleaned out according to what is on one side, and every one who swears falsely shall be cleaned out according to what is on the other side. I will send it out, declares the Lord of hosts, and it shall enter the house of the thief and the house of him who swears falsely by my name, and it shall remain in his house and consume it, both timber and stones. Then the angel who talked with me came forward and said to me, Lift your eyes and see what this is that is going out. And I said, What is it? He said, This is the basket that is going out. And he said, This is their iniquity in all the land. And behold, the leaven cover was lifted, and there was a woman sitting in the basket. And he said, this is wickedness. And he thrust her back into the basket and thrust down the leaden weight on its opening. Then I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, two women coming forward. The wind was in their wings. They had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the basket between earth and heaven. Then I said to the angel who talked with me, Where are they taking the basket? He said to me, To the land of Shinar. to build a house for it. And when this is prepared, there they will set the basket down on its base. So that is Zechariah chapter five. A couple of images here. Again, this is apocalyptic literature, just a reminder, this is the kind of It's just a prophecy, but there's a particular type of prophetic literature known as apocalyptic literature, most famous being Revelation, which is actually the apocalypse. Apocalypse, by the way, doesn't mean the end of all things, like we'll talk about the zombie apocalypse or whatever. And It's the end of all things. Apocalypse doesn't mean that. It means an unveiling. It means a revealing, a sort of opening of the curtains so that you can see behind the scenes to see what's happening in the spiritual realm. So we have two visions here. A flying scroll. It's huge. A scroll that's 20 cubits long and 10 cubits wide. That's about 30 feet long and about 15 feet wide. That's about a billboard size. And it's unrolled. That's how you would know how long it is. And it's a curse. It's a covenant curses. And specifically addressing those who steal and those who swear falsely. And think about what corrupted the temple worship before the exile. And think also what corrupted the worship when Jesus came and passed judgment on the temple and then it was finally destroyed in A. D. 70. There's two big sins. There's lots of sins, of course. There's lots of ways you can break the covenant. But the two big ones that really affect the worship of God, one is stealing, and that is people who are in They're in the worship of God, in church work, in kingdom work, to enrich themselves, to lie in their own pockets, to make themselves wealthy. These are the animal sellers, the money changers that Jesus drove out of the temple. These are the people that were condemned in Jeremiah and Isaiah for being the ones who oppressed the poor. and who take land away from poor people and do all that kind of stuff is people who steal their greedy. The other category is hypocrites. People who swear falsely. They they might swear by the Lord and then they might go and swear by a pagan god. They they they are two-faced, they are false. They are not true worshipers. This in Jesus' day this came in the form of those Herodians and some of the Sadducees who were politically very closely aligned to Herod the Great and the Romans and were very supportive of them while at the same time profiting from the work that was going on in the temple. So there's a hypocrisy, it's a a a a false loyalty. You say, oh, the Lord is God The Lord is our King, and then as the crowd shouted when Jesus was being crucified or being judged, we have no king but Caesar So if you can say we have no king but Caesar, then Jesus is not Lord. And so this speaks to us directly in these two ways. One is, are you thinking that Christianity is a way for you to get an easier, more comfortable, more profitable life in this If so, then you're a stealing person. You're in it for yourself. You're in it for the money. You're in it for the ease of lifestyle. You're in it to have your best life now. That is wrong. Or do you say that you're a Christian and say that Jesus is your king, but you actually give your highest loyalty to something else? You know, you will skip church to m because you'll never miss fill in the blank. Or you'll you'll sin, you'll you'll curse, you'll whatever because you don't want to lose out on or lose favor with or lose loyalty to fill in the blank. Can be a political alliance, it could be a uh even something as silly as a sports alliance, or it could be nationalism. There's some Um people who are very nationalistic in their fervor, so it's like America, wave that red, white, and blue, and that's like more important than King Jesus in his kingdom. So though those are the two direct categories that we're talking about here in this flight. scroll and God's condemning them, gonna clear them out. In other words, at the judgment when Jesus comes again, selfish stealers and Divided loyalty, idol worshippers, it's another way of thinking about it. They're they're cleared out. They swear falsely, they're stealing, they're cleared out. They're not part of the people of God that are gathered in at the final judgment day. And then There's this picture of iniquity personified by a woman. Think about Revelation. Iniquity is personified by a woman there too, by Babylon the harlot. Here the woman is called wickedness. She's a personification of idolatry. probably in the cultural context of the day, Asherah. Asherah was the fertility goddess. But really it is it's it's connected to what came before in that why would you steal and why would you swear falsely? Because you're an idol worshiper and the idols of this world have a hold of your heart. Well if the idols of this world have a hold of your heart, then you're going to be engaged in wickedness. And that idolatrous lifestyle is embodied here by this woman wickedness. But then there's this Really strange image that's frankly difficult to figure out. We're not sure if these are angels or if there's some other kind of messengers, but there's two women. who come forth and they have wings, and they lift up the basket between heaven and earth, and they take the basket away, away to the land of Shinar, which is which is Babylon. And there they they set up a place for the idolatry. This is reinforcing a major biblical theme, and that is that Babylon represents the wealth and the power of the world, right, as it stands in contrast and opposition to the kingdom of God, the church, the people of God. And that's why the woman in Revelation is called Babylon the harlot. I think she's the fulfillment of this vision here. of a woman in a basket. And in in the day of the book of Revelation, it was it was the city of Rome. It was Rome as the as the economic cultural center epicenter of the Roman Empires where wealth and Um idolatry, the the center of Rome was a bunch of idol temples, sexual immorality, political intrigue, violence was all rampant in Rome. And so this is, for us, it's this message that if you're going to be idolatrous If you're going to give your heart to the things of the world so that you're swearing falsely, you're saying, Jesus is my Lord, but He's not really Or if you're you're stealing, you're interested in just your own profit. If you're going to be idolatrous, you're going to stand in direct opposition to what God is doing, and you'll be removed because at the end of it, you're going to be basically in alliance with Babylon. And when Babylon falls, your house of cards will come crashing down too. So, chapter 5 of Zechariah Some of the earlier chapters three and four encouraging gospel pictures of Jesus and redemption in the church. This one much more of a sobering challenge to say, Okay, if you believe in Jesus, if you belong to Jesus, if you belong to the church, if you're wanting to shine his light. You've got to get rid of the idolatry that ensnares you. You cannot be seeking your self-profit. You cannot be seeking uh the idols of the world swearing falsely because these things are being judged by God and they're being removed from the people of God. And so our hearts must be loyal to King Jesus Jesus. He saves us by his grace. He cleanses us by his blood. He empowers us by his spirit. But we have to live that if we are to be faithful to him. pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for these warning pictures that are sobering. They're strange to us. They're symbolic and kind of unusual, but you're you're getting our attention. You're getting our attention because you're calling us to something important, and that is to repentance, from worldliness, from idolatry, from selfishness. So that we can shine with the light of Christ by your Holy Spirit. Do this work in our hearts, Father, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Zechariah 5 today. I hope it was a benefit and a blessing to you, and I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.