Good morning, good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word. One chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It is day 1085, and we come to Zechariah chapter 10. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. Thank you for the truth of your word. Thank you for the power of your word. Thank you for the clarity. We pray that you would make your word clear to us in Zechariah 10. That you would Not only help us to understand it with our minds, but to receive it with our hearts that we might love you better and walk more closely with you. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Zechariah chapter ten. Ask rain from the Lord. In the season of the spring, rain, from the Lord, who makes the storm clouds. And he will give them showers of rain to everyone, the vegetation and the field, for the household gods utter nonsense. And the diviners see lies. They tell false dreams and give empty consolation. Therefore the people wander like sheep. They are afflicted for lack of a shepherd. And I will punish the leaders. For the Lord of hosts cares for his flock, the house of Judah, and will make them like his majestic steed in battle From him shall come the cornerstone, from him the tent peg, from him the battle-bow, from him every ruler, all of them together. They shall be like mighty men in battle, trampling the foe in the mud of the streets. They shall fight, because the Lord is with them, and they shall put to shame the riders on horses. I will strengthen the house of the Lord, and I will save the house of Joseph. I will bring them back because I have compassion on them. And they shall be as though I had not rejected them, for I am the Lord their God, and I will answer them. Then Ephraim shall become like a mighty warrior, and their hearts shall be glad as with wine Their children shall see it and be glad. Their hearts shall rejoice in the Lord. I will whistle for them and gather them in. For I have redeemed them, and they shall be as many as they were before. Though I scatter them among the nations, yet in far countries they shall remember me. and with their children they shall return and live. I will bring them home from the land of Egypt and gather them from Assyria, and I will bring them to the land of Gilead and to Lebanon, till there is no room for them He shall pass through the sea of troubles and strike down the ways of the sea, and all the depths of the Nile shall be dried up, the pride of Assyria shall be laid low, and the scepter of Egypt shall depart I will make them strong in the Lord, and they shall walk in his name, declares the Lord. Amen. God is so good. What a great word from God today. Very encouraging. And it has, as with most things in the prophets, it has an immediate meaning and fulfillment, but then it has an ultimate meaning and fulfillment that is centered on on Christ God's people have been scattered. Some of them went down into Egypt. Many of them were conquered by the Assyrians and were taken off into far corners of the Assyrian Empire. Others were taken by the Babylonians, starting under Cyrus the Great, the Persian Emperor. The Edict of Cyrus, they were allowed to come back to the land. And some of them had, but most of them had not. So here's what's interesting. In in the immediate future, More and more of God's people would return, and they would come back to the land. And so there is this immediate fulfillment. However,. That is not the full meaning of this text because actually most Jewish people remain outside of the land of Judah. That's true to this day, by the way. Most Jewish people don't live in Israel. There are far more Jewish people living outside of Israel than living in Israel. And that's been the case really ever since the Babylonian captivity. And in fact, of the ten tribes of the north who were taken by the Assyrians. We refer to those as the ten lost tribes because most of the identity of some of these tribes we just don't know. We don't know where they are. Some of them did come back. So there was a remnant from most of those tribes who were able to come back. It's not really true that all ten tribes were lost. Remnants of them. did come back, but some of them didn't, and some of them we don't know. And so it was partially fulfilled. There were lots and lots of people who came back to Judah back to Jerusalem. They rebuilt the city. They rebuilt the city walls. Sometime in the future, from the perspective of of Zechariah writing, Nehemiah is going to come. And he's going to help rebuild uh the walls around Jerusalem and help resettle all the people where they need to be. And Within a few generations, there will be a teeming multitude of people living within Judah. But that's not the end of it. Really, there's a bigger in-gathering. There's a bigger ingathering that starts at the day of Pentecost. Because spiritually speaking, While the Judeans, the Jews, did come back to the land, people from Judah and from Benjamin and from Levi, and a few people from some of the other tribes. Spiritually, they really did not return to the Lord. And that was shown by the fact that when Jesus came, they rejected him. By and large, not everybody, of course, there was a holy remnant, but the vast majority, all the factions of the leadership, whether Sadducees, Pharisees, Scribes, Herodians, they all rejected him. And only a few. On the day of Pentecost when the Holy Spirit was poured out, there were 120 believers, so a very small group. And you would think, well, where was Zechariah's prophecy because all these people came back, but they didn't really return to the Lord, not in true faith. Their outward form of worship was a little bit more biblically correct, but their hearts were still far from God until Pentecost when the Pa uh Holy Spirit poured out and then three thousand, a multitude of three thousand. And these are Jews from all over. all over the Roman Empire, they come. And then in the years after that, within the apostolic generation, so from about thirty to thirty-three A. D. when when Pentecost in the early church is happening until 70 A. D. when Jerusalem is destroyed and then to 90s A. D. when the Apostle John is the last living apostle during that apostolic time period, those decades. The gospel goes as far as India and Ethiopia and Spain and up into the northern parts of the Roman Empire. uh in in Gaul, in Rome, in Greece, in Macedonia. It it's it's it's global in terms of that that world of that day. And it includes tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people from all over the world, much, much greater. And in in the century since then, it's only increased. It's only been more. And so God is continuing to do this. And God blesses his people. God blesses his people with fruitfulness, with with abundance. God is good to his people. Every blessing we have is from him But ultimately, ultimately and perfectly, the consummation of the fulfillment of Zechariah 10 will not be finished until Jesus comes again, and then he will gather in all of his people. from all over the world, and we will be gathered in and perfectly blessed with a life that we're will have no enemies that can stand before us because of Jesus coming to So this is how we see this pattern unfolding. I want to see one other thing from Zechariah 10, and that is in verse 3, My anger is hot against the shepherds. The people wander like sheep, they are afflicted for lack of a shepherd, my anger is hot against the shepherds, and I will punish the leaders, for the Lord of hosts cares for his flock, the house of Judah. God has called men of God to be elders and pastors, teachers and leaders. were to follow the good shepherd. Ultimately, Zechariah 10 is telling us none of these under-shepherds, kings, governors, prophets, priests, none of them are really good enough. Jesus is going to have to come and be the the good shepherd, the great shepherd of the sheep, as Hebrews calls him. But in all these things, uh Now we have under-shepherds. As a pastor, an elder, I'm an under-shepherd. And the spiritual well-being of God's people is still largely dependent upon the faithfulness of the undershepherds. And when God's people are spiritually weak and wandering, it's often because there are too many undershepherds. who are serving their own interests. And sometimes that's by telling people what they want to hear, because they know that'll keep people in the church and giving money and participating if they keep everything positive and everything exactly what people want to hear. But that's not the call. The call is to be faithful. And when when God's under shepherds are faithful, that's when God's people are strong. All right, that's Zechariah 10. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this wonderful chapter in your word. Thank you for your blessings. Thank you for the strength that you give us in Christ. Thank you for the victory. that you have secured over our enemies. Thank you that your church is growing in all the world you're gathering your people from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. And thank you that Jesus is coming again to gather us all in as one perfect church under his headship. Help your under-shepherds, pastors, elders, teachers, to be faithful, to be diligent, to have their eyes on the good shepherd, and to lead your people from strength to strength. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thanks for joining me for Zechariah 10. Tomorrow we're going to move on to Zechariah 11. I hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.