Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Zechariah 3 is on tap for today, our 1075th day, together in the Word of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. It's truth. It's power. It's grace to us. Speak to us through your word. Write it on our hearts. Grow us in our knowledge of and love for Jesus. We pray this in his name. Amen. Zechariah 3, one of my favorite sections in Zechariah is before us today. Let's read. Then he showed me Joshua the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. And Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was standing before the Lord before the angel, clothed with filthy garments And the angel said to those who were standing before him, Remove the filthy garments from him. And to him he said, Behold, I have taken away your iniquity from you. and I will clothe you with pure vestments. And I said, Let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head, and clothed him with garments, and the angel of the Lord was standing by. And the angel of the Lord solemnly assured Joshua, Thus says the Lord of hosts, If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are the men who are a sign. Behold, I will bring my servant the branch. For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription, declares the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of the land in a single day. In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree. Zechariah chapter 3. What a glorious, glorious chapter. So Joshua the high priest. Should remember him from Haggai. We were there just not that long ago. It's Zerubbabel the governor. Haggai and Zechariah the prophets and Joshua the high priest, they're they're fulfilling these anointed offices. Now all of these anointed offices ultimately point us to Christ, and we see that with Joshua. In fact, Joshua's name is spelled Yeshua. And it is the same name as Jesus. And so it's a name that means salvation. It's really the same as the Hebrew word salvation, but it's in name form. Jehovah says or Yahweh saves or simply salvation. And he's the high priest. He stands before The angel of the Lord. The angel of the Lord is the Lord Jesus Christ, who, when he takes on flesh and blood, will become our great high priest, but not yet. He can't become our great high priest until he's fully human. He's not fully human yet. He's the angel of the Lord. Satan is standing at his right hand to accuse him, to accuse Joshua. Why would he accuse Joshua? Because he's clothed in filthy garments. How can he minister before the Lord on behalf of the people? How can he be the high priest? to represent the people before God, represent God before the people when he himself is wearing filthy garments. He's a sinner. He's a branch plucked from the fire. But the Lord says to Satan, this is probably the angel of the Lord, says to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan, the Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? Here we have a very interesting picture of the Trinity, because the angel of the Lord is the Lord, and yet he speaks to Satan in the name of the Lord in the third person. So Yahweh The Lord is three in one, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And here we have the Son of God, the angel of the Lord, speaking as the advocate, as the defender. of God's people rebuking Satan. Now, forward in time, 550 years, and Jesus will hang on a cross fulfilling what's spoken at the end of this chapter and remove the iniquity of the land in a single day. And at that time Satan will be completely disarmed, no be unable to make accusation, because we won't be clothed with filthy garments anymore. We aren't clothed with filthy garments anymore. But this is the way it is in the Old Testament. Just as Satan would come before God And want to attack Job. Here he comes before God and wants to condemn Joshua. But Joshua is clothed. The angel of the Lord is able to say, I have taken your iniquity. Away from you. And I will clothe you with pure vestments. Now I believe when he speaks in verse 2, he's the Lord. And then when he speaks in verse 4, he's the angel of the Lord. Jesus is both God and man. And and there's even this this two aspects. He's not man yet, so be very careful. He's this is before the incarnation. He's not man yet. But as the angel of the Lord, the messenger of the Lord, he is in this mediatorial role, and he's the Lord, but he's also the messenger of the Lord. It's a mystery, but when we're talking about divine things, it is a mystery. So he speaks as an angel, and he says, Remove the filthy garments from him. And he says, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you. And I will clothe you with pure vestments. Now how could he do that? Because in the future he will pay the price for Joshua's sins. And on the basis of that future payment, which in the decrees of God is already accomplished, because God has decreed it, and so it will certainly come to pass. His filthy garments taken off and pure vestments given and a clean turban on his head. This is such a great picture for us because we are in Christ. We are a royal priesthood. That's what 1 Peter 2 says about us. That's what Revelation 5, the praise of the saints. We're a kingdom of priests. We're a royal priesthood. We are kingly priests. We have clean garments. We have a clean turban on our head spiritually. We are clean before God because of the payment made. By the Lord. So we can stand before God. We can minister before God. We can pray and be heard. We can intercede on behalf of others. We can bless others in the name of the Lord. Because we've been given that privilege, like Joshua was, because not because of our own garments, they're filthy. But when they're taken away from us, our own acts of righteousness, our own attempts At religiousness, they're taken away from us, and we're given the righteousness of Christ instead. We're given what Christ secured for us. Now Joshua is told, if you walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my court. So he is a royal priest over the house of God, the temple. The church is now that temple, and all believers are royal priests within that temple. We Are privileged. But Joshua's told, Joshua's told that he and he and his friends, who are he and his friends? Well, Haggai, Zerubabel, Zechariah himself. He and his friends, prophet, priest, and king, they are a sign. They have a symbolic significance, and that is, behold, I will bring my servant the branch. I will bring my servant the branch. Now, this branch of the Lord was already spoken of by Jeremiah and by Isaiah. And he is the Lord Jesus Christ, of course, the branch that comes out of the root of Jesse. Predating Jesse, and yet coming after the line of Jesse's been cut down, the line of David's been cut down, the branch springs forth from the stump as the righteous branch. And that righteous branch. There's this interesting image in verse 9 of of a single stone with seven eyes. Don't know that I fully understand that, but I know that Jesus is the rock. And the stone is probably a precious gemstone because part of the priest's garments were stones. There's a single precious gemstone with seven eyes. Now seven eyes, Revelation tells us this is a reference of the Holy Spirit. So Jesus is this precious Spirit filled, spirit anointed. Remembereth his baptism, the spirit came down on him like a dove. And later when Peter was preaching to Cornelius, he said, How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit. with power and he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed of the devil. Jesus is this Spirit anointed stone, the single stone. And he is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And he, through him, through his death and resurrection On the cross, when he cried out, it is finished, God says, I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day. Thousands of years of the sins of God's people, countless sins, all removed in a single day as the Son of God The branch, the stone, the prophet, priest, and king, the messiah, the Yeshua, the salvation, as he hung on the cross between heaven and earth, he took away all of our sin in a single. day. We should never ever stop being stunned at the marvelous grace, at the majesty, of the power of God in our salvation that Jesus purchased on the cross In that day, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree. We've been given a blessing from God, and we're called to share that with our neighbors. We're called to share that with our neighbors. So it's a great chapter, isn't it? When you understand what's going on, it's such a great chapter, it's so exciting. Such a great picture of Jesus and what he does for us and how we're blessed in him. How do we respond to it? Well, live out what Christ has secured for you. Be who God has made you to be in Christ. Not who the world tells you you are, not what your flesh craves for. Be who God has made you in Christ. You're holy, you're clean, you're forgiven. You're a branch plucked from the fire and clothed in pure white. And set before the Lord as a priest, and given complete forgiveness of your sins, and given the grace of being able to invite your neighbor to come under your vine and under your fig tree, to share in the blessing. Of knowing the Lord. What grace, what amazing grace. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we love you and thank you for your word. What a wonderful chapter. What an encouragement. What a blessing. What a salvation we have in Jesus. Help us to love it, to live it, and to share it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much for joining me for Zechariah chapter 3, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord, because in the Lord Jesus, all the blessings of God are you. Doors.