Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 1077 of our three-year journey through the Word of God. We have less than twenty days to go after today. And so we are in Zechariah chapter 4. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word, which is living and active. It's your truth breathed out by you. given to us for our good, for building us up in our faith, for correcting us in our error, for rebuking us in our wrongdoing, and for training us. In righteousness, that we might love Jesus and follow him more. We pray that you would speak to us and work in our hearts through Zechariah 4. Today we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah 4. And the angel who talked with me came again and woke me, like a man who was awakened out of his sleep. And he said to me, What do you see? I said, I see and behold a lampstand all of gold with a bowl on the top of it and seven lamps on it, with seven lips on each of the lamps that are on the top of it And there are two olive trees by it, one on the right of the bowl, the other on the left. And I said to the angel who talked with me, What are these, my lord? Then the angel who talked with me answered and said to me, Do you not know what these are? I said, No, my lord. Then he said to me, This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel, not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord of hosts Who are you, O great mountain? Before Zerubable you shall become a plane. and he shall bring forward the top stone amid shouts of grace, grace to it. Then the word of the Lord came to me saying, The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house. His hands shall also complete it. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you For whoever has despised the day of small things shall rejoice, and shall see the plumb line in the hand of Zerobul. These seven are the eyes of the Lord which range through the whole earth. Then I said to him, What are these two olive trees on the right and the left of the lampstand? And a second time I answered and said to him, What are these two branches of the olive trees which are beside the two golden pipes from which the golden oil is poured out? He said to me, Do you not know what these are? I said, No, my lord. Then he said, These are the two anointed ones who stand by the Lord. of the whole earth. That is Zechariah chapter four. So we have a vision of a golden lampstand. We've already done revelation in our day-by-day study. So we have a little bit of an advantage in that we've seen how revelation makes use of some of this symbolism that is actually drawn here from Zechariah. The lampstand, seven lampstands or a seven-fold lampstand. represents the church in the book of Revelation. It is the shining forth of the glory of God through the kingdom of God to the nations. It is the presence of God in the world. Okay. It's it's his in in the Old Testament context, it's the house of David. and the kingship being watched over and kept to be a light to the nations, which is ultimately going to point to Christ. It's zerubbable at this generation. But Zerubbabel like David is a forerunner of the one who will ultimately come and be the fulfillment, who is King Jesus. And then you have these two olive trees, one on the right, one on the left. And we're told at the end these are the two anointed ones who stand before the uh before the presence of the Lord. Now there are at this time there are two who are anointed Right, to be in the anointed offices, and that is Joshua the high priest and Zechariah the prophet It's possible by this time either Hagi's not in due here or but it it's the prophetic office and the priestly office So together, the golden lampstand and the two olive trees, we have a picture of prophet, priest, and king. And it's the prophetic and the priestly. that that the Holy Spirit uses to empower the kingdom. So it's the Word of God, it's the worship of God. It's the It's the speaking forth of the Word of God, and it's the ministry of God's grace through the priesthood that brings forth the light. to illuminate the lampstand to then shine forth into the world. And that's why the word of the Lord to Zerubbable, who's kind of represented in his generation by this lampstand, is Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord of hosts. And again, I think in verse 7, when he's talking about zerubable, Ultimately, this is fulfilled in Christ, who is in the line of Zerobul, in the line of David. What are you, O great mountain? Before Zerubabo, you shall become a plain, and he shall bring forward the top stone. The cornerstone, the chief stone, Jesus, amid shouts of grace, grace to it. So from the line of the rubble shall come forward this chief cornerstone, this capstone, this most important stone, that is the Lord Jesus Christ, amid shouts of grace, grace to it. So This is a powerful picture of the three anointed offices which are really connected and which will ultimately be fulfilled in Christ, but it's also This message that the way that the kingdom of God goes forward, the way that the light of Christ shines in the world is not by might nor by power. Jesus didn't raise an earthly army. Jesus didn't take up arms to overthrow the Romans. Jesus didn't use his miraculous power as the Messiah to, you know, strike blind his enemies and to strike dead those who opposed him. It's not by might, it's not by power. It's by my spirit. And the Spirit works through the proclamation of the Word. and the right worship of God, prayer, intercession, blessing, that mediatorial worship of of the Lord, which was ultimately through our great high priest Jesus Christ, but each one of us as believers are priests and and and we're part of that worship. So the word and the worship are so key to the Spirit's working in the world. And then there's this prophecy about Zerubel. He's laid the foundation of this house. His hands will see it built. So he he's been tasked with with rebuilding the temple. Um there are obstacles But those obstacles will not be overcome by might or power, but they be overcome by the Spirit. And as he laid the foundation, so he's going to bring it to completion. Now In Servable's day, there is a completion of the temple. It takes a period of time. It's delayed for a while, and then they get back to it, but it is completed over the period of several years. And so this prophecy has that immediate fulfillment. But the ultimate fulfillment is what is being done now through the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the fulfillment of prophet, priest, and King who is the the the chief cornerstone and he is building his temple now. And so just as Jesus has laid the foundation of the temple in himself as the chief cornerstone and in the apostles and prophets whom he has called and given his spirit to bring forth the word of God. Just as that foundation has been laid, so the work will be completed until the very last believer comes in and completes the living temple that is the church of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that is the fulfillment of the kingdom of God on earth. And then how is this going to happen? Well, these seven eyes that range throughout the whole earth. And again, a reminder of these two olive trees. These are two different pictures of the Holy Spirit. Again, revelation helps us. We see a lamb with seven eyes standing in the midst of the throne. We see the seven lampstands, sevenfold lampstands, we see seven spirits that go out through all the earth. This is a reference to the Holy Spirit. We could call the sevenfold spirit. Seven being the number of divine work, divine completion. When God does something like the seven days of creation, it is complete. It is orderly. And so this is a picture of God's number. It's God's work through his Holy Spirit through The proclamation of the word and the worship, which the oil, the oil of the Holy Spirit is poured out, and the light of Christ shines and to the whole earth. Notice the double repeating here at the beginning of this paragraph and at the end of the whole earth. These are the seven eyes uh of the Lord which reigns throughout the whole earth. This is the Holy Spirit working throughout the whole earth. These are the two anointed ones who stand by the Lord of the whole earth. He's the master This is not the proper name Yahweh. This is the Adonai, the title. He is the master of the whole earth. So it's a beautiful picture here in Zechariah 4 of what is already happening. I would say in seed form in the days of Zechariah. You have Zechariah the prophet, you have Joshua the high priest, you have Zerubabel the son of David, who's in governing authority over the land. He's not an anointed king, though, so we have to be use caution there to not over-read this as being literally fulfilled fully insurrected. But rather in seed form, the temple's being built, not by might, not by power, but by my spirit. There are enemies, there's opposition. The way that opposition is overcome is not by might, not by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord. And today, in Christ, who is the fulfillment, the perfect prophet, priest, and king, the kingdom of God is being built through the whole earth, the temple of the living God, the church of Jesus Christ in New Jerusalem. Zion, the city of God, is being built stone by stone until the last stone is complete. So this chapter ought to give us just a passionate commitment. to the gospel of Jesus Christ, to the proclamation of his word, to the right worship of his holy name, to the church as the means that God uses to glorify Christ and advance his kingdom in the world. And we ought to just be more and more committed to not by might, not by sp uh power, but by my spirit, says the Lord. And how does the spirit work? Through the proclamation and the worship of God in his church as we have the light of Christ shine more brightly through us to a watching world. Let's pray. Heavenly Father Oh, King Jesus, you are the glorious one. You are the one we need to see lifted high and shining brightly through your church. And that doesn't come because we have a lot of money, or because we have a lot of influence, or because we we have the political power. It comes because of the proclamation of the word. The right worship of you as your people are filled with your Holy Spirit. Filled with your Holy Spirit and hearing your word and proclaiming your word and worshiping you rightly. and shining the light of Christ into a dark world. Make us truly shine with the light of Christ, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen Amen. Amen. Well, thanks so much for joining me for Zechariah 4. Tomorrow we're going to go on to a vision of a flying scroll in Zechariah 5. Have a blessed day in the Lord.