Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 1073 of our three-year journey through the Word of God, and we come now to the book of Zechariah. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word and your faithfulness to teach us from your word. You are good. You've spoken to us in so many different ways, powerfully, for our good and for your glory. Speak to us today through Zechariah 1. Write this passage on our hearts. Help us to see you more clearly, to trust Jesus more clearly, and to be your more holy and faithful people through the time we spend in your word together today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Okay. Zechariah, the book of Zechariah. Let's read chapter 1, and then we'll get into this together. In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to the prophet Zechariah. the son of Barekiah, son of Ido, saying, The Lord was very angry with your fathers. Therefore, say to them, Thus declares the Lord of hosts: Return to me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you. Says the Lord of hosts. Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried out, Thus says the Lord of hosts, return from your evil ways and from your evil deeds. But they did not hear or pay attention to me, declares the Lord. Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever? But my words and my statutes, which I command my servants the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers? So they repented and said, As the Lord of hosts purposed to deal with us for our ways and deeds, so has he dealt with us. On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month of Sheat, in the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to the prophet Zechariah, the son of Barekiah, son of Ido, saying, I saw in the night and behold a man riding on a red horse. He was standing among the myrtle trees of the glen, and behind him were red, sorrel, and white horses Then I said, What are these, my lord? The angel who talked with me said to me, I will show you what they are. So the man who was standing among the myrtle trees answered, These are they whom the Lord has sent to patrol the earth. And they answered the angel of the Lord, who was standing among the myrtle trees, and said, We have patrolled the earth, and behold, the earth remains at rest. Then the angel of the Lord said, O Lord of hosts, how long will you have no mercy on Jerusalem and the cities of Judah against which you have been angry these seventy years? And the Lord answered gracious and comforting words to the angel who talked with me. So the angel who talked with me said to me, Cry out. Thus says the Lord of hosts, I am exceedingly jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion, and I am exceedingly angry with the nations that are at ease. For while I was angry but a little, they furthered the disaster. Therefore, thus says the Lord, I have returned to Jerusalem with mercy. My house shall be built in it, declares the Lord of hosts, and the measuring line shall be stretched out over Jerusalem. Cry out again, Thus says the Lord of hosts, my cities shall again overflow with prosperity, and the Lord will again comfort Zion, and again choose Jerusalem And I lifted up my eyes and saw and behold four horns. And I said to the angel who talked with me, What are these? And he said to me, These are the horns that have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. Then the Lord showed me four craftsmen, and I said, What are these coming to do? He said, These are the horns that scattered Judah, so that no one raised his head. And these have come to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the nations who lifted up their horns against the land of Judah to scatter it. That is Zechariah chapter 1. So Zechariah is the second of the post-exilic prophets. There's three, Haggai. Zechariah and Malachi. So with Zechariah, we come to the next to last book in the Old Testament. Zechariah begins his ministry shortly after. Haggai, and so they really are contemporary. They're working at the same time right around the year 520. But we can look at the exact dates because unlike earlier prophets who just They prophesy for a period of time and they give us at the opening like the reigns of the kings that they prophesied toward, or some of them give us no time reference whatsoever. Haggai and Zechariah give us very precise uh time references and so we can look at this these time references in Zechariah, and we can get some pretty exact numbers for when he's prophesying. Chapter 1, verse 1 opens in the eighth month. of the second year of Darius. So that is in the fall, in October and November of five twenty BC. And then one seven, the second oracle that we just read. comes on the 24th day of the fifth month, that's the month of Shabbat, of the second year of Darius. So that would be February 15th, 519. So with some of these we can get a very precise date. And then in chapter 7, when we get there, we'll see the fourth day of the ninth month. which is Kislev of the fourth year of Darius. So that would place it on December 7th, 518. So we're 520 to 518 BC, which means we've come To the end of the 70 years of exile, exile um people are returning to the land, people are rebuilding. the temple, um there is there's this restoration of Jerusalem that's happening, and yet God's people are still in in great difficulty. They're still um Struggling, and they're very poor, they're very oppressed, and so Zechariah comes to bring a word from the Lord. Excuse me. Now, the first word from the Lord that Zechariah brings is a simple call to repent. Zechariah. He identifies himself. He's the son of Barakiah, son of Ido, and he says, the Lord was angry with your father. So he wants to remind everyone of why it is that Judah and Jerusalem went into exile in the first place. The cause of their exile was not because the gods of the Babylonians or the gods of the Assyrians or the gods of the Medo-Persians were somehow stronger, more powerful than Yahweh. No, it was because Yahweh the Lord was angry So he says, Don't be like your fathers, to whom the prophets cried out, thus says the Lord of hosts, return from your evil ways and from your evil deeds. But they did not hear or pay attention to me, declares the Lord. So with Haggai and Zechariah, we have two unique prophets. in the literary prophets, in that we know that the people of God listened to what they said and repented And that's pretty remarkable. That's a ministry that the prophets before the exile did not have. So we see that here in verse 6. So they repented. And said, as the Lord of hosts purposed to deal with us for our ways and deeds, so has he dealt with us. In other words, we understand it was our sin. We own it. We are going to listen to the Lord. And so God continues to bring them this revelation. Now, when we get into the second vision, we've got horsemen and we've got horns. And that is a big flag that tells us this is a different kind of prophetic literature that we're dealing with here. It has more in common with Daniel. And parts of Ezekiel, and then in the New Testament, the book of Revelation, than it does with Isaiah or Jeremiah or Malachi or Micah. What's the difference? Well, Daniel And Zechariah and parts of Ezekiel and Revelation, these are what's called apocalyptic literature Apocalyptic literature is literature that is showing you a glimpse into heavenly realities, into the transcendent spiritual realm. But it's doing so by way of heavy symbolism. So it's a heavily symbolic literature. Like we get the the four beasts in in Daniel showing the four nations, and we get um things in well a lot of what's here in Zechariah is actually repeated, some of the same imagery picked up in Revelation of horsemen and trumpets and scrolls and all these kinds of things and and they represent things. So the first thing he sees Is that he sees a man riding on a red horse, and then with him are red, sorrel, and white horses. So red Could be not like a blood red horse, but like a like a dark chestnut kind of horse. A a normal color for a horse. You've seen those horses that are kind of like a a dark burgundy chestnut color. Sorrel is a lighter brown horse and then white is of course a white horse. So these are normal horse colors. They're not you shouldn't picture them as being uh like blood red scarlet horse or uh something like that. And so they're they're here, but who are they? What are they? Well they they patrol the earth They are angels in operations around the world to spy out what's going on, to bring back information, but also to carry out the will of God. And so they've been going about through the earth, and the the one on the red horse, which is an angel, he says, you know, we've been throughout the whole earth, and the earth remains at rest. This is a time when the Persians have conquered everything, and it's the second year of Darius, and it's a time of relative peace. There's no massive conflict going on. And so with the Persians having conquered everything and everything being relative rest, The answer comes the question comes back. The angel of the Lord says, O Lord of hosts, how long will you have no mercy on Jerusalem? and on the cities of Judah against which you've been angry these seventy years. And these seventy years is very key because it connects back to Jeremiah 25. where God says that the the time of judgment against Jerusalem will be for 70 years. And so now we've come to the end of that 70 years. And and the Lord of hosts, God Almighty, says, Uh it's it's time. It's time. I uh I've returned to Jerusalem with my mercy, my house shall be built in it. Right now it's beginning to be rebuilt. It's in the process of being rebuilt, but it shall be built. And the measuring line stretched out over Jerusalem. That means God's going to re-establish it. The way that he wants it to be, with prosperity and with comfort, and he's going to choose Jerusalem again So this is a good word. The people repented. The people believed, and God gave them a good word. Now there are four horns, the four horns that have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. Horns represent earthly power, military might. kingly authority. Those in the ancient world are kind of the same thing because your kings are like your lead warriors who lead the people in battle. Um probably What we're dealing with is the Assyrians who conquered the northern kingdom in 722, the Babylonians, who conquered the southern kingdom in like 600 to 586 over that period of time. And then the Medes and the Persians, who are two powers that come together to form one empire by this time And so I think that those are the four horns that that we're dealing with. And and God has basically said, these are the four horns that have scattered my people. And held them in exile, but now they're going to be cast down and Judah is going to be restored to its land. So God has promised that He's going to restore His people. And that's what's going to happen. As the Persian Empire continues, it's going to uh be used by God to restore the people of Judah and Jerusalem. And the temple will re will be rebuilt and then years later the walls will be rebuilt under Nehemiah. The the pattern of worship will be established properly. And all of that will happen. So God is being gracious to his people because his people have listened to his word. So what is our takeaway here? I think our takeaway here for us as believers today is we may live in very troubling times. We may live in times when our culture is sliding further and further away from basic principles of truth and righteousness. a basic respect for religion and for God and is moving more and more into unbelief and immorality and even insanity by a loss of reason and and reality. That may be the context we live in. But the question for us is, in this context of difficulty, How will we, as God's people, respond to God's Word? That's always the key in Scripture. When God speaks, how do God's people respond? If we are listening to the world and if we are chasing after the world, if we're obsessed over who's in power and who do we want to have in power and will the people in power be favorable to us? And we take our eyes off the Lord and we stop listening to His Word, well that's what they were doing before the exile. Remember back when we were talking about those prophets? They were making alliances with Egypt and then with Babylon and then trying to seek the protection of the Assyrians against Syria. They were engaged in earthly politics for their protection before the exile. And God was displeased with that. It was idolatrous. Now, after the exile, as they're starting to come back to the land, because God's being gracious to them, they realize that whatever the earthly powers do is under God's hand, and so go straight to the top. Why seek out the favor of the earthly powers? You can seek out the favor of the heavenly power, the Lord of hosts, as he's called repeatedly in here, he's called the Lord of hosts, Yahweh of the heavenly powers. That's what hosts are, the heavenly powers So go to the one who's in charge of it all and seek his face. Listen to his word, repent, obey him, and he will show you The favor that He has planned for you. I'm not saying that if you believe God's word, you're going to be a millionaire. This isn't a prosperity gospel message. But it is saying if we are in distress. Because of the state of the world and even the state of the church, the right thing to do is to hear, repent, and obey the Word of God, trusting in the God of the Word. Jesus Christ is King of kings and Lord of Lords. He sits in heaven enthroned above all earthly powers. Will we hear him? Will we trust him? Will we obey him? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, there is no one above you, no one beside you. Lord God Almighty, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, you reign And we are your people by your grace. So let us hear and respond with faith and obedience to your word today and always. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, that was Zechariah chapter one. Thanks for joining me for that. We'll go on to chapter two tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.